RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to buy our Ordinary Shares. You should also consider the other information in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our Ordinary Shares to decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Business Risks If the market does not continue to respond favorably to our current advanced email defense solutions, including our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions and our new Uniform Resource Locator, or URL filtering solutions, or our future solutions do not gain acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenues. Our success depends on the continued acceptance and use of our advanced email defense solutions and initial interest in and acceptance of our URL filtering solutions by current and new enterprise, Original Equipment Manufacturer or “OEM”, and Internet Service Provider, or ISP customers and technology licensees. We have been selling our anti-spam products for over five years, our Zero-Hour™ virus outbreak detection product for approximately four years, our IP reputation service (our latest version being known as GlobalView™ Mail Reputation) for less than three years and our URL filtering solutions for less than six months. As the markets for email defense and web security products continue to mature and the global economy remains in a recessionary mode, we are seeing increasing competitive pressures and demands for even higher quality products at lower prices. This increasing demand comes at a time when email and web-based threats are more varied and intensive, challenging even the top end solutions to keep their performance at an industry acceptable high level of accuracy. If our solutions do not continue to evolve to meet market demand, or newer products on the market prove more effective, our business could fail. Also, if growth in the markets for email and web-based defense solutions begins to slow, our business will suffer dramatically. Continuing unfavorable national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition The recent crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia has led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of the United States and Europe showing significant signs of weakness. If the economies in any part of the world continue to be weak or weaken further, our customers may reduce or postpone their spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our products or services and longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM partners, distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets do not improve, or continue to deteriorate, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 2 Tighter governmental enforcement of regulations could decrease the distribution of unsolicited bulk (spam) email and malicious software and decrease demand for our solutions, or increase our cost of doing business. On December 16, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (CAN-SPAM Act), which established a framework of administrative, civil, and criminal tools to combat spam. The law establishes both civil and criminal prohibitions to assist in deterring the most offensive forms of spam, including unmarked sexually-oriented messages and emails containing fraudulent headers. Under the law, senders of email are required to honor a request by a consumer not to receive any further unsolicited messages. While past high profile prosecutions of direct marketers seemingly have not had much of a deterrent effect on marketers of unsolicited email, it is not known whether or not future enforcement actions will prove effective. In addition, various state legislatures have enacted laws aimed at regulating the distribution of unsolicited email. These and similar legal measures may have the effect of reducing the amount of unsolicited email and malicious software that is distributed and hence diminish the need for our email defense solutions. Any such developments would have an adverse impact on our revenues. We depend upon OEM partners and resellers and we have a limited concentration of products. We expect to continue to be dependent upon resellers and OEM partners for a significant portion of our revenues, which will be derived from sales of our email defense and URL filtering solutions. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if: • Our limited product suite fails to remain attractive to current or prospective distributors; • Anticipated orders or royalty payments from these resellers and OEM partners fail to materialize; • We are unable to locate and or sign additional OEM partners (given the limited pool of available candidates for our technology); or • Some of the key resellers or OEM partners cease the promotion of our business or begin to promote additional solutions in a layered approach to email defense and URL filtering management. • Some of our key OEM partners’ businesses fail as a result of a deepening global economic crisis. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. A number of factors, many of which are enumerated in this “Risk Factors” section, are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results or cause our share price to decline. These factors include: • Our ability to successfully develop and market our email defense and URL filtering solutions to new markets, both domestic and international; • Our ability to successfully develop and market new, modified or upgraded solutions, as may be needed; • The continued market acceptance of our email defense solutions and initial acceptance of our URL filtering solutions; • Our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • Unanticipated bugs or other problems affecting the delivery of our solutions to customers; • The success of our resellers’ and OEM partners’ sales efforts to potential customers; • The solvency of our resellers and OEM partners and their ability to allocate sufficient resources towards the marketing of our solutions to their potential customers; • Our OEM partners’ ability to effectively integrate our solutions into their product offerings; • The rate of adoption of our solutions, especially our new URL filtering solutions, by customers; • The substantial decrease in information technology spending; • The pricing of our solutions; • Our ability to timely collect fees owed by resellers and OEM partners; 3 • A continuing deepening of the global slowdown; • Sudden, dramatic fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies covering the royalties we collect from our foreign customers versus the currencies utilized in our business (namely, the New Israeli Shekel, U.S. Dollar and EURO); • Our ability to add cost-effective space and equipment to our current detection centers in a timely and effective manner to match the rate of growth in our business, plus our ability to build new, cost-effective detection centers as worldwide demand for our products may require; and • The effectiveness of our customer support, whether provided by our resellers and OEM partners, or directly by Commtouch. Our products and services have changed many times since we commenced operations in 1991. For example, in late 2006, we announced the availability of our IP reputation service, now known as GlobalView Mail Reputation and in late 2008; we released the initial version of our URL filtering solutions. The above described changes in business models required that we adjust our business processes and workforce, which caused fluctuations in our results from operations. We have many established competitors who are offering a multitude of solutions to the problems of spam/virus distribution and web-related security threats. The market for messaging security products remains intensely competitive. This has resulted in pricing pressures and lower operating margins,, which has been a cause in the slowing of our business’ rate of growth. In the market for email defense solutions, there are fewer providers offering somewhat ineffectual “content filtering” solutions (solutions focusing solely on the content of potential spam email) than in the past, and more sophisticated offerings that compete with our solutions. Email defense providers offering forms of software (gateway), multi-functional appliances and managed service solutions and which may be viewed as both competitors and potential customers to Commtouch include Symantec (Brightmail), TrendMicro, McAfee (including the recently acquired Secure Computing) and Cisco (IronPort). Email defense providers offering solutions on an OEM basis similar to Commtouch’s business model, and which may be viewed as direct competitors, include Cloudmark, Mailshell and Mail-Filters. As this market continues to develop, it is likely that companies with greater resources than ours will attempt to either enter or increase their presence in this market by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors or business partners. Some examples of this are the acquisitions of IronPort by Cisco, Secure Computing by McAfee, CipherTrust by Secure Computing, Brightmail by Symantec Corp. and Microsoft of both Frontbridge Technologies and Sybari Software. In the market for web security solutions, there are fewer providers offering somewhat ineffectual “content filtering” solutions (solutions focusing solely on “Black & White” lists) than in the past, and more advanced offerings that compete with our URL filtering solutions. Web security defense providers offering forms of software (gateway), multi-functional appliances and managed service solutions and which may be viewed as both competitors and potential customers to Commtouch include McAfee (Secure Computing), WebSense, IBM (ISS) and Cisco (Fastdata). Web defense providers offering solutions on an OEM basis similar to Commtouch’s business model, and which may be viewed as direct competitors, include BrightCloud, RuleSpace and Puresight. As this market continues to develop, it is likely that companies with greater resources than ours will attempt to either enter or increase their presence in this market by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors or business partners. Some examples of this are the acquisitions of Fastdata by Cisco, SurfControl by WebSense and Secure Computing by McAfee. Also, there are companies that develop and maintain in-house email defense and web security solutions, such as Google and Yahoo. These and other companies could potentially leverage their existing capabilities and relationships to enter the email and/or web defense industries. 4 Competitors could introduce products with superior features, scalability and functionality at lower prices than our products and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products that discourage users from purchasing our products. Our market’s level of competition has increased as current competitors have improved the sophistication and effectiveness of their offerings and as new participants have entered the market. In the future, as we expand our offerings, we may encounter increased competition in the development and distribution of these solutions. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and may enter into strategic or commercial relationships on more favorable terms. New technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressures on us, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our ability to continue to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully execute our sales and business development plan. The complexity of the underlying technological base of email defense and URL filtering solutions, and the current landscape of the markets, require highly trained sales and business development personnel to educate prospective resellers, OEM partners and customers regarding the use and benefits of our solutions. It may take time for our current and future employees, OEM partners and resellers to learn how to most effectively market our solutions. As a result, our sales and business development personnel may not be able to compete successfully against larger, more heavily financed and more experienced sales and business development departments of our competitors. The loss of our key employees would adversely affect our ability to manage our business, therefore causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, including Gideon Mantel, our Chief Executive Officer, and Amir Lev, our President and Chief Technical Officer, could materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of our software developers or senior operations personnel may also adversely affect the continued development and support of our email defense and URL filtering solutions, thereby causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. We do not have employment agreements inclusive of set periods of employment with any of our key personnel. We cannot prevent them from leaving at any time. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies, listing us as a beneficiary, on any of our employees. Our business and operating results could suffer if we do not successfully address potential risks inherent in doing business overseas. As of December 31, 2008, we had sales offices in Israel and the United States. We also are marketing our email defense and URL filtering solutions in international markets by utilizing appropriate distribution channels. However, we may not be able to compete effectively in international markets due to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • Differing technology standards; • Inability of distribution channels to successfully market our solutions; • Export restrictions; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Political and economic instability; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • The adoption of new legislation-backed penalties, which may discourage the distribution of unsolicited email messages and web security threats; and • Limited enforcement mechanisms for protecting intellectual property rights. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s prospective international sales and, consequently, business and operating results. 5 Technology Risks We have recently entered a new market with our URL filtering solutions, and may not fully appreciate the needs of customers and risks inherent in this new market Historically, Commtouch has focused its products solely on email based solutions. The recent move into the web defense industry represents our first effort at expansion into a totally new market. While we have expended resources in educating ourselves about this new market, nevertheless we cannot be 100% certain that we have anticipated all possible issues that might arise with our “in the cloud” technology infrastructure and trends affecting web-based threats. Should unanticipated issues arise, sales of our URL filtering solutions likely will slow and our business will suffer. We may not have the resources or skills required to adapt to the changing technological requirements and shifting preferences of our customers and their users. Both the email defense and URL filtering industries are characterized by difficult technological challenges, sophisticated distributors of email and web threats, multiple-variant viruses, unique phishing scams and constantly evolving malevolent software distribution practices and targets that could render our solutions and proprietary technology ineffective. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continually enhance our existing email defense and URL filtering solutions and to develop new solutions, functions and technology that address the potential needs of prospective and current customers and their users. The development of proprietary technology and necessary enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may not be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt to OEM, customer or end user requirements or emerging industry standards. Also, we must be able to act more quickly than our competition, and may not be able to do so. Our solutions may be adversely affected by defects or denial of service attacks, which could cause our OEM partners, customers or end users to stop using our solutions. Our email defense and URL filtering solutions are based in part upon new and complex software and highly advanced computer systems. Complex software and computer systems can contain defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released, and are possible targets for denial of service attacks instigated by “hackers”. Although we conduct extensive testing and implement Internet security processes, we may not discover defects to or vulnerabilities in our software or systems that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are delivered. Although we have not experienced any material defects or vulnerabilities to date in our email defense and URL filtering offerings, it is possible that, despite testing by us, defects or vulnerabilities may exist in the solutions we provide. These defects or vulnerabilities could cause or lead to interruptions for customers of our solutions, resulting in damage to our reputation, legal risks, loss of revenue, delays in market acceptance and diversion of our development resources, any of which could cause our business to suffer. Our solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive a sufficient sampling of internet traffic or deliver our services to customers. Our email defense and URL filtering solutions are dependent, in part, on the ability of our Detection Centers to analyze, in an automated fashion, live feeds of internet and web related traffic received through our services to customers and other contractual arrangements. If we were to suffer an unanticipated, substantial decrease in such traffic or our Detection Centers become unavailable for any significant period, the effectiveness of our technologies would drop, and our product offerings would become less attractive. Investment Risks If we will be in need of additional capital, we may not be able to secure additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all, and the Company could fail. We have invested heavily in technology development. We expect to continue to spend financial and other resources on developing and introducing new offerings and maintaining our corporate organizations and strategic relationships. We also expect to invest resources in research and development projects to further enhance our URL categorization and blocking, anti-spam and anti-virus solutions. 6 Notwithstanding the Company’s current, solid financial condition, should additional funding become necessary we may be unable to secure capital on acceptable terms, or at all, due to, among other things, difficulties in the capital and credit markets. In such case, the Company could fail. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise necessary funds or that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Even if available on acceptable terms, any such additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. If we cannot continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s maintenance requirements, it may delist our Ordinary Shares and we may not have an active public market for our Ordinary Shares. The absence of an active trading market would likely make our Ordinary Shares an illiquid investment. Our Ordinary Shares are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market. To continue to be listed, among other requirements, we are required a) to maintain shareholders’ equity of at least $2,500,000, or market value of our outstanding shares (excluding shares held by Company insiders and principal shareholders) of at least $35,000,000, or we must have realized at least $500,000 in net income from continuing operations in our last fiscal year or in two of our last three fiscal years and b) we must maintain a minimum bid price per Ordinary Share of $1.00. Up through 2006, the Company did not meet the applicable listing requirements on several occasions. The Company believes it has solidified its position on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ, in response to the global economic downturn of 2008, suspended its minimum bid requirement temporarily. If that suspension is lifted and/or the Company fails to meet other listing standards due to the significant deterioration of the Company’s business or stock price, we may be at risk for a delisting by NASDAQ from the Capital Market. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and could delay or prevent a change of control. Our directors and affiliates of our directors, our executive officers and our shareholders who currently individually beneficially own over five percent of the voting power in the Company (together known as “affiliated entities”), beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 33.5% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares as of December 31, 2008. Included in the calculation of voting power are warrants and options exercisable by the affiliated entities within 60 days thereof (some of which are underwater as of December 31, 2008). If they vote together (especially if they were to convert all beneficial holdings into shares entitled to voting rights in the Company), these shareholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of Commtouch. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise as a consequence of the significant shareholders control relationship with us, including: • Conflicts between significant shareholders, and our other shareholders whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction or significant corporate transactions; • Conflicts related to corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us, on the one hand, or by these shareholders, on the other hand; or • Conflicts related to existing or new contractual relationships between us, on the one hand, and these shareholders, on the other hand. Substantial sales of our Ordinary Shares could adversely affect our share price and dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. Although the company is currently engaged in a stock buyback plan, any future sale, or availability for sale, of large quantities of our Ordinary Shares may have the effect of depressing our stock’s market price. We continue to maintain various registration statements which cover the resale of shares issued and shares to be issued on the exercise of warrants issued under certain private placements. In particular, the additional Ordinary Shares to be issued if and when outstanding warrants to purchase 791,113 Ordinary Shares (as of December 31, 2008) are exercised will dilute existing shareholders of Ordinary Shares. 7 If we fail to honor registration rights for past private placements, we will be subject to payment of liquidated damages. According to registration rights agreements with the selling security holders listed under registration statements on Form F-3 filed by us with the SEC between 2004 and 2006, should we fail to maintain the effectiveness of those registration statements for the periods stated in the respective agreements, we risk having imposed on us liquidated damages as defined in those agreements. For example, one of the agreements provides for liquidated damages of up to one million additional unregistered Series A Preferred Shares (which, given a conversion ratio of one for two and the reverse split effective January 2, 2008, now equals 666,667 unregistered Ordinary Shares). These liquidated damages would dilute the value of Ordinary Shares held by other shareholders. Intellectual Property Risks If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for significant damages. We regard our patented and patent pending technology, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and customers to protect our proprietary rights. During 2004, we purchased a United States patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,330,590. During 2005, we filed in the United States two anti-spam related patent applications, claiming priority for prior periods based on filings of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications, and one virus outbreak detection related patent application. [In early 2009, we abandoned one of the two anti-spam patent applications filed during 2005, as well as the virus outbreak detection patent application]. During 2006, we filed in the United States a patent application relating to the prevention of spam in streaming systems or, in other words, unwanted conversational media sessions (i.e. voice and video related). During 2008, we filed a U.S. Provisional Patent Application for anti-malware data center aggregate, the subject of which remains unpublished and thus confidential. We may seek to patent certain additional software or other technology in the future. Any such patent applications might not result in patents issued within the scope of the claims we seek, or at all. Despite our precautions, unauthorized third parties may copy certain portions of our technology, reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or otherwise infringe or misappropriate our patent or our patent pending technology, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may not have the proper resources in order to adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and competitors may independently develop similar technology. We cannot be certain that our email defense and URL filtering solutions’ software does not infringe issued patents. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications previously may have been filed which relate to our solutions. Therefore, other parties, whether in the United States or elsewhere, may assert infringement claims against us. We may also be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by ourselves and our licensees. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We may not have the proper resources in order to adequately defend against such claims. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel We have important facilities and resources located in Israel, which has historically experienced military and political unrest. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Although the majority of our past sales were made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 8 Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Recently, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities in December 2008 and January 2009 along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted in missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. There were also extensive hostilities along Israel's northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and cause our revenues to decrease. In addition, Israel and some companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by Arab countries and their close allies since Israel’s establishment. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition and expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Certain of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency, such as in connection with recent hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip. Although Commtouch has operated effectively under these requirements since its inception, we cannot predict the effect of these obligations on Commtouch in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Because a substantial portion of our revenues historically have been generated in U.S. dollars the EURO, and a portion of our expenses have been incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. We have generated a substantial portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars and Euro, and incurred a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. We anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in Israeli shekels. As a result, we are exposed to risk to the extent that the value of the U.S. dollar decreases against the NIS and the Euro. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected, as occurred during portions of 2006 - 2008, when the NIS and the Euro appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operational expenses and revenues. We cannot predict the trend for future years. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects if inflation in Israel accelerates. The government programs and benefits which we previously received require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. Prior to 1998, we received grants from the Government of Israel, through the OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. These grants totaled $0.6 million. In 2001, we received $0.6 million and in 2002 we received $0.2 million. We did not submit an application for funding during the period 2004 - 2008. We have not received OCS funding in recent years, but we may apply for additional grants in the future. The OCS budget has been subject to reductions which may affect the availability of funds for possible future grants. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to receive future grants in similar amounts, or at all. In addition, the terms of any future OCS grants may be less favorable than our past grants. In order to meet specified conditions in connection with the grants and programs of the OCS, we have made representations to the Israel government about our Israeli operations. From time to time the conduct of our Israeli operations has deviated from our forecasts. If we fail to meet the conditions of the grants, including the maintenance of a material presence in Israel, or if there is any material deviation from the representations made by us to the Israeli government, we could be required to refund the grants previously received (together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor) and would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 5744-1984 and the related regulations, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology developed with OCS funding or for the transfer of manufacturing rights outside of Israel. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research and development. There is no assurance that we will receive the required approvals for any proposed future transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: 9 · a requirement to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any sale of such technology to an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the know-how was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and · the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing that is foreign). These restrictions may impair our ability to sell certain of our older technology assets outside of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we repay the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us and our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel, and we maintain significant operations in Israel. In addition, the majority of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States and most of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Service of process upon our non-U.S. resident directors or executive officers and enforcement of judgments obtained in the United States against us and our directors and executive officers may be difficult to obtain within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the substance of the applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Furthermore, there is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside Israel which may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us. Subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that (a) the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; (b) the judgment may no longer be appealed; (c) the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and (d) the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if (i) the judgment was obtained by fraud; (ii) there is a finding of lack of due process; (iii) the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; (iv) the judgment is at variance with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or (v) at the time the action was brought in the foreign court, a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Commtouch, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his Ordinary Shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. 10 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. Among other things, we may follow home country practice with regard to composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders' meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. Item 