RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to buy our Ordinary Shares. You should also consider the other information in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our Ordinary Shares to decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Business Risks If we are unable to effectively integrate the businesses of eleven and Frisk into our global organization, our operating results will suffer. During 2012, we acquired both the antivirus business of the Icelandic company Frisk Software International, or Frisk, and the German Internet security company eleven and, in connection therewith, we literally doubled the size of our organization in terms of personnel (though at the beginning of 2013 we performed an approximately 12% synergistic reduction of headcount to better streamline the organization). For a somewhat small organization such as Commtouch, the acquisition of two companies within less than six months, in two very different parts of the world, is an extremely complex and challenging venture. While we believe that in the future, these acquisitions will be very fruitful for the growth of the Company, in the short term, these acquisitions are stretching our internal resources, both financial and manpower. Our ability to attain our sales, marketing and development goals will depend in great measure on our ability to create one cohesive organization that is focused on the goals set by a unified management. Should the efforts at integrating these new businesses into Commtouch not continue in a smooth or successful fashion, our business will suffer and shareholder value will decline. Furthermore, any such failure could impact our efforts at acquiring an additional company or technologies during 2013 and beyond. If the market does not continue to respond favorably to our traditional Internet security solutions, including our anti-spam, Zero-Hour antivirus, Mail Reputation, Command Antivirus and Uniform Resource Locator or URL filtering solutions, or our new cloud-based solutions or our future solutions do not gain acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenues. Our success depends on the continued acceptance and use of our traditional Internet security solutions by current and new businesses, Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs, and service provider customers, plus the interest of such customers in our newest offerings. We have been selling our inbound anti-spam products for over nine years, our Zero-Hour™ virus outbreak detection product for approximately eight years, our GlobalView™ Mail Reputation perimeter defense solution for approximately seven years, our URL filtering solutions for over three years, our outbound spam solution for approximately three years and the Command Antivirus solution for over two years. Also, we recently released three new cloud-based Internet security solutions – a) email Security as a Service, or email “SecaaS”, b) Commtouch Mobile Security Services for Android and c) Commtouch Email Security On-Premise for Service Providers. 2 As the markets for messaging, antivirus and Web security products continue to mature and consolidate, we are seeing increasing competitive pressures and demands for even higher quality products at lower prices. This increasing demand comes at a time when Internet security threats are more varied and intensive, challenging even the top end solutions to keep their performance at an industry acceptable high level of accuracy. If our solutions do not continue to evolve to meet market demand, or newer products on the market prove more effective, our business could fail. Also, if growth in the markets for these solutions begins to slow, our business will suffer dramatically. Recurring unfavorable national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The crisis in the financial and credit markets that began in 2008 in the United States, and that led to a global economic slowdown, seems to have become more acute in certain countries of Europe. If the economies of countries in which our customers and potential customers are located continue to be weak or weaken further, our customers may reduce or postpone their spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our services and longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM and service provider partners, distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If economic conditions in key markets do not improve or continue to improve, or revert to a recessionary state, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted in a material way. Tighter governmental enforcement of regulations could decrease the distribution of unsolicited bulk (spam) email and malicious software and decrease demand for our solutions, or increase our cost of doing business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (CAN-SPAM Act) established a framework of U.S. administrative, civil, and criminal tools to combat spam. The law establishes both civil and criminal prohibitions to assist in deterring the most offensive forms of spam, including unmarked sexually-oriented messages and emails containing fraudulent headers. Under the law, senders of email are required to honor a request by a consumer not to receive any further unsolicited messages. While past high profile prosecutions of direct marketers seemingly have not had much of a deterrent effect on marketers of unsolicited email, it is not known whether or not future enforcement actions will prove effective. In addition, various state legislatures have enacted laws aimed at regulating the distribution of unsolicited email. While we are not clear as to the reasons, two years ago we began to see a gradual decline in the amount of spam traffic on the Internet, and in the past year spam activity remained consistent at this lower level. These and similar legal measures, both in the United States and worldwide, may have the effect of reducing the amount of unsolicited email and malicious software that is distributed and hence diminish the need for our Internet security solutions. Any such developments would have an adverse impact on our revenues. We depend upon OEM partners, service providers and resellers. We expect to continue to be dependent upon OEM partners and service providers for a significant portion of our revenues, which will be derived from sales of our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions. We also expect resellers to become more important in the distribution of our newer cloud-based Internet security solutions. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if: • Anticipated orders or payments from these customers fail to materialize; • Some of the key customers cease the promotion of our business or begin to promote additional solutions in a layered approach to email defense, anti-malware and URL filtering management; or • Some of our key customers’ businesses fail as a result of a deepening global economic crisis. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. A number of factors, many of which are enumerated in this “Risk Factors” section, are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results or cause our share price to decline. These factors include: 3 • Our ability to successfully market both our traditional messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions and our newer cloud-based Internet security solutions in new markets, both domestic and international; • Our ability to successfully develop and market new, modified or upgraded solutions, as may be needed; • The continued acceptance of our solutions by our current customer base; • Our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • Unanticipated bugs or other problems affecting the delivery of our solutions to customers; • The success of our customers’ sales efforts to their customer base; • The solvency of our customers and their ability to allocate sufficient resources towards the marketing of our solutions; • Our customers’ ability to effectively integrate our solutions into their product offerings; • The substantial decrease in information technology spending; • The pricing of our solutions; • Our ability to timely collect fees owed by our customers; • A renewed global slowdown; • Sudden, dramatic fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies covering the fees we collect from our foreign customers versus the currencies utilized in our business (namely, the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, the U.S. Dollar and Euro); • Our ability to add cost-effective space and equipment to our current detection centers, or Detection Centers, in a timely and effective manner to match the rate of growth in our business, plus our ability to build new, cost-effective detection centers as worldwide demand for our products may require; and • The effectiveness of our end user support, whether provided by our customers or directly by Commtouch. Our products and services have changed many times since we commenced operations in 1991. For example, in September 2010, we acquired the Command Antivirus unit of Authentium, and during 2012 (as noted above) we acquired both the Frisk antivirus business and all of the business of eleven, and we have integrated and continue to integrate these new business into our existing business. These and future changes in our product offerings may require that we adjust our business processes and workforce, which can cause disruption to our business and fluctuations in our results from operations. We have many established competitors who are offering a multitude of solutions to the problems of spam/virus distribution and Web-related security threats. The market for Internet security products remains intensely competitive and is subject to rapid changes in technology. We expect both product and pricing competitive pressures to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger technical staffs and/or greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and other advantages compared to us. This competition could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Additional details are provided in Item 4. “Information on the Company.” Our ability to continue to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully execute our sales and business development plan. The complexity of the underlying technological base of messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions, and the current landscape of the markets, require highly trained sales and business development personnel to educate prospective resellers, OEM and service provider partners and customers regarding the use and benefits of our solutions. During 2012, with the acquisitions of Frisk’s antivirus business and eleven, as well as natural turnover in sales personnel, our business development/sales department underwent a higher rate of change than in prior years. It may take time for our current and future employees to convey to potential, as well as current, OEM/service provider partners and resellers how to most effectively market and utilize our solutions. As a result, our sales and business development 4 personnel may not be able to compete successfully against larger, more heavily financed and experienced sales and business development departments of our competitors. The loss of our key employees would adversely affect our ability to manage our business, therefore causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of our software developers or senior operations personnel may also adversely affect the continued development and support of both our current messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions and future solutions presently included in our roadmap for development, thereby causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. We do not have employment agreements inclusive of set periods of employment with any of our key personnel. We cannot prevent them from leaving at any time. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies, listing us as a beneficiary, on any of our employees. Our business and operating results could suffer if we do not successfully address potential risks inherent in doing business overseas. As of December 31, 2012, we had sales offices in Israel the United States, Germany and Iceland. We also are marketing our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions in international markets by utilizing appropriate distribution channels. However, we may not be able to compete effectively in international markets due to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • Differing technology standards; • Inability of distribution channels to successfully market our solutions; • Export restrictions; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Political and economic instability; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; and • Limited enforcement mechanisms for protecting intellectual property rights. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s prospective international sales and, consequently, business and operating results. Our Web security and antivirus solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive sufficient components from third party suppliers. Our Web security solution relies in part on certain components supplied by third parties pursuant to contractual relationships. If these third parties breach their agreements with us, we may have difficulty in securing alternative sources for these components in a timely manner and thus our Web security solution may not perform at the level we expect. If this were to occur, the effectiveness of this solution would drop, it would become less attractive to customers/potential customers and anticipated revenues could decline. Technology Risks We may not have the resources or skills required to adapt to the changing technological requirements and shifting preferences of our customers and their users. The messaging, antivirus and Web security industries are characterized by difficult technological challenges, sophisticated distributors of Internet security threats, multiple-variant viruses, unique phishing scams and constantly evolving malevolent software distribution practices and targets that could render our solutions and proprietary technology ineffective. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continually enhance our existing messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions and to develop new solutions, functions and technology that address the potential needs of prospective and current customers and their users. The development of proprietary technology and necessary 5 enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may not be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt to OEM, service provider, customer or end user requirements or emerging industry standards. Also, we must be able to act more quickly than our competition, and may not be able to do so. Our solutions may be adversely affected by defects or denial of service attacks, which could cause our OEM and service provider partners, customers or end users to stop using our solutions. Our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions are based in part upon new and complex software and highly advanced computer systems. Complex software and computer systems can contain defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released, and are possible targets for denial of service attacks instigated by “hackers”. Although we conduct extensive testing and implement Internet security processes, we may not discover defects to or vulnerabilities in our software or systems that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are delivered. Although we have not experienced any material defects or vulnerabilities to date in our messaging, antivirus and Web security offerings, it is possible that, despite testing by us, defects or vulnerabilities may exist in the solutions we provide. These defects or vulnerabilities could cause or lead to interruptions for customers of our solutions, resulting in damage to our reputation, legal risks, loss of revenue, delays in market acceptance and diversion of our development resources, any of which could cause our business to suffer. Our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive a sufficient sampling of Internet traffic or our Detection Centers were to become unavailable. Our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions are dependent, in part, on the ability of our Detection Centers to analyze, in an automated fashion, live feeds of Internet and Web related traffic received through our services to customers and other contractual arrangements. If we were to suffer an unanticipated, substantial decrease in such traffic or our multiple Detection Centers become unavailable for any significant period, the effectiveness of our technologies would drop, our product offerings would become less attractive to customers/potential customers and revenues could decline. Our Antivirus offerings remain relatively new for us, and we still may not fully appreciate the needs of customers and risks inherent in these new markets. Our acquisition of the antivirus business from Authentium in September 2010, followed up by our acquisition of Frisk’s antivirus business in October 2012, represented our first efforts at expansion into the antivirus market. While we hired the core team of ex-Authentium and ex-Frisk employees and contractors who possess the expertise to manage the antivirus business, nevertheless we cannot be totally certain that we have anticipated all possible issues that might arise with our “cloud computing” technology infrastructure and our relatively new antivirus offerings. Should unanticipated issues arise, sales of our antivirus solutions likely will slow and our business will suffer. For example, because of the complexity of the antivirus products, we understand that in the past, errors were found in versions of these products that were not detected before first introduced, or appeared in new versions or enhancements, and we may find such errors in the future. Failures, errors or defects in our antivirus solutions could result in security breaches or compliance violations for our customers, disruption or damage to their networks or other negative consequences and could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, declining sales, increased expenses and customer relation issues. Such failures could also result in product liability damage claims against us by our customers, even though our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. The antivirus products have in the past, and may at times in the future, falsely detect viruses or computer threats that do not actually exist. These false alarms, while typical in the security industry, would likely impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our antivirus products. Our new cloud-based offerings have not been on the market for very long, so we may not see the customer traction in these offerings that we anticipate. In November 2012, we acquired eleven, in part to accelerate our push into the cloud-based Internet security sector. The solutions we are promoting and will promote to this market will enable Internet security vendors and service providers to offer fully cloud-based, Internet security solutions to their customers, without the need for the integration of a software development kit, or SDK, into their product offerings. Among other things, this cloud-based approach is intended to speed up the process of moving our solutions to market, and ease the integration burden for our customers. 6 While eleven had successfully penetrated the German market with its solutions, it did not have a significant international presence. With Commtouch’s international infrastructure – both in terms of business development and operations – we feel that we should be better positioned to succeed in markets outside of Germany. However, we do not have a record of success with our new offerings, including our a) email SecaaS, b) Commtouch Mobile Security Services for Android and c) Commtouch Email Security On-Premise for Service Providers. We will also be releasing new cloud-based solutions during the course of 2013 that will utilize new technologies that we acquired. Because of the newness of the technologies involved and the resulting learning curve required of all employees in the sale and support of the new offerings, we cannot be certain that we will convince potential customers of the benefits of these new offerings and sell them at the rate we anticipate. If we fall short of our expectations, and especially given the significant resources invested by us in bringing these new offerings to market, our financial results will suffer and the value of shareholder investments will decline. Investment Risks If we will be in need of additional capital, we may not be able to secure additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all, and the Company’s business could suffer. We have invested heavily in technology development, and in the past two and a half years we have closed three acquisitions. We expect to continue to spend financial and other resources on developing, acquiring and introducing new offerings and maintaining our corporate organizations and strategic relationships. We also expect to continue to invest resources in research and development projects to further enhance our current solutions. Given the heavy outlays in capital expended during 2012 in both M&A activities and internal development, the Company’s cash balance has dropped significantly and thus the Company is more thinly capitalized in 2013 than it was during the majority of 2012. As a result, at about the time of the filing of this Annual Report, a credit line had been secured from an Israeli bank, and we were in the process of closing on another credit line with a second Israeli bank. Together, both credit lines total a sum of up to $5,000,000. These credit lines are being put in place in order to ensure sufficient cash is available to fund the strategic growth investments of the Company. In relation to these credit lines, the Company has agreed to grant security interests generally over all Company assets, and to refrain from encumbering its assets in favor of any other third parties. The Company has already drawn on one of the credit lines in the amount of $1.5 million. While we believe that the credit lines will be sufficient to bridge any cash flow issues in the near term, if we will be in need of additional capital and are unable to secure it on acceptable terms or at all and, concurrently, customer collections will be slower than normal, the Company’s business will suffer. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. In particular, we may not succeed in making additional acquisitions or be effective in integrating such acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we have made a number of acquisitions over the past few years, including a total of three acquisitions during the years 2010 through 2012, and expect to continue to make acquisitions. We frequently evaluate the tactical or strategic opportunity available related to complementary businesses, products or technologies. The process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and/or of investing in new technologies, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business, and which may result in the loss of key customers and/or personnel and expose us to unanticipated liabilities. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position, the inability to successfully integrate or commercialize acquired technologies and achieve expected synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis and the potential impairment of acquired assets. Further, we may not be able to retain the key employees that may be necessary to operate the business we acquire, and, we may not be able to timely attract new skilled employees and management to replace them. From time to time, we may also need to acquire complementary technologies, whether to execute our strategies or in order to comply with customer needs. There are no assurances that we will be able to acquire or successfully integrate an acquired company, business or technology, or successfully leverage such complementary technology in the market. 7 Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment will be realized. Future acquisitions or investments could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets and impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may knowingly enter into an acquisition that will have a dilutive impact on our earnings per share. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or effective in integrating such acquisitions into our existing business. We may also compete with others to acquire companies, and such competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. In addition, for possible commercial and economic considerations, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions that we have identified as crucial to the implementation of our strategy. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, including those of competition authorities and foreign investment authorities, in countries where we seek to consummate acquisitions. For those and other reasons, we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition, even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company. Due to changes in the industry and market conditions, we could also be required to realign our resources and consider restructuring or other action, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and could delay or prevent a change of control. Our directors and affiliates of our directors, our executive officers and our shareholders who currently individually beneficially own over five percent of the voting power in the Company (together known as “affiliated entities”), beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 29.3% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares as of March 1, 2013. Included in the calculation of voting power are options exercisable by the affiliated entities within 60 days thereof (with some having an exercise price greater than the market price of our shares as of March 1. 2013). If they vote together (especially if they were to exercise all vested options into shares entitled to voting rights in the Company), these shareholders will be able to exercise significant influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In this regard, we know of no shareholders or voting agreement between major shareholders or between such shareholders and directors or officers. This concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of Commtouch. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise as a consequence of the significant shareholders control relationship with us, including: • Conflicts between significant shareholders, and our other shareholders whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction or significant corporate transactions; • Conflicts related to corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us, on the one hand, or by these shareholders, on the other hand; or • Conflicts related to existing or new contractual relationships between us, on the one hand, and these shareholders, on the other hand. Our Ordinary Shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our Ordinary Shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Capital Market and also on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our Ordinary Shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our Ordinary Shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our Ordinary Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Ordinary Shares on the other market. 8 Intellectual Property Risks If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for significant damages. We regard our patented and patent pending technology, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and customers to protect our proprietary rights. See 