RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the SEC, including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See also “Forward-Looking Statements”. Business Risks If the Internet security market does not accept our new cloud-based product offerings, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We are seeking to exploit our new cloud-based security platform, CYREN Web Security (CWS) to disrupt the Internet security market and our historic business model. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of enterprises, large and small, to increase their use of cloud computing services. The market for messaging security and compliance solutions delivered as a service in particular is at an early stage relative to on-premise solutions, and these applications may not achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Historically, companies have used signature-based security products, such as firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, or IPS, anti-virus, or AV, and web and messaging gateways, for their IT security. These enterprises may be hesitant to purchase our cloud-based security offering if they believe that our signature-based products or those of our competitors are more cost-effective, provide substantially the same functionality or otherwise provide a sufficient level of IT security. Many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software or hardware appliances for these applications into their businesses, and currently, most enterprises have not allocated a fixed portion of their budgets to protect against next-generation advanced cyber attacks. As a result, to expand our customer base, we need to convince potential customers to allocate a portion of their discretionary budgets to purchase our products and services. If we do not succeed in convincing customers that our offerings should be an integral part of their overall approach to IT security, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all, which would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use cloud computing services because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with its reliability and security, among other things, of this delivery model, or its ability to help them comply with applicable laws and regulations. If enterprises do not perceive the benefits of this delivery model, then the market for our services and our sales would not grow as quickly as we anticipate or at all and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 2 If the market does not continue to respond favorably to our traditional Internet security solutions, including our CYREN EmailSecurity, antispam solutions, embedded antivirus, new cloud-based solutions or Uniform Resource Locator (URL) filtering solutions or our future solutions do not gain acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenues. Our success depends on the continued acceptance and use of our traditional Internet security solutions by current and new businesses, Original Equipment Manufacturers, or OEMs, and service provider customers, plus the interest of such customers in our newest offerings. We have been selling our inbound anti-spam products for over nine years, our Zero-Hour™ virus outbreak detection product for approximately eight years, our GlobalView™ Mail Reputation perimeter defense solution for approximately seven years, our URL filtering solutions for over five years, our outbound spam solution for approximately three years and the CYREN Antivirus solution for over four years. As the markets for messaging, antivirus and web security products continue to mature and consolidate, we are seeing increasing competitive pressures and demands for even higher quality products at lower prices. This increasing demand comes at a time when Internet security threats are more varied and intensive, challenging top end solutions to keep their performance at an industry-acceptable level of accuracy. If our solutions do not continue to evolve to meet market demand, or newer products on the market prove more effective, our business could fail. Also, if growth in the markets for these solutions begins to slow, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer dramatically. If we are unable to effectively integrate recent and future acquisitions and investments, our business operations and financial results will suffer. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our service and product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may decide to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our 2012 acquisition of the antivirus business of the Icelandic company, Frisk Software International (“Frisk”) and the German Internet security company eleven GmbH (“eleven”). For a relatively small organization such as CYREN, the acquisition of two companies within less than six months, in two very different parts of the world, is an extremely complex and challenging venture. If we encounter further difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of these companies or any other company that we acquire, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions, including those we are facing in our recent acquisitions of Frisk and eleven, include: • disruption of our ongoing business, diversion of resources, increased expenses and distraction of our management from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; • additional legal and regulatory compliance ; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired companies into our organization; • inability to retain key employees from the acquired companies; • inability to strengthen our competitive position, achieve our strategic goals, generate sufficient financial return to offset acquisition costs or realize the expected benefits of the acquisition; • failure to identify significant problems or liabilities, including liabilities resulting from the acquired companies' pre-acquisition failure to comply with applicable laws, during our pre-acquisition due diligence; • entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; • difficulties in, or inability to, successfully sell any acquired products or services; • coordination of research and development, sales and marketing, accounting, human resources and other general and administrative systems; • changes in relationships with strategic partners as a result of product acquisitions or strategic positioning resulting from the acquisitions; • liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and litigation; and • unanticipated write-offs or charges. 3 The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for security products and services is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, industry standards and frequent new product introductions and improvements. We anticipate continued challenges from current competitors, which in many cases enjoy greater resources than us, as well as by new entrants into the industry. If we are unable to anticipate or effectively react to these competitive challenges, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our revenue that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as: • greater name recognition and larger customer bases; • larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; • broader distribution and established relationships with channel and distribution partners and customers; • greater customer support resources; • direct selling to end users; • lower labor and research and development costs; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and may be able to leverage their relationships with distribution partners and customers based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products to gain business in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products, subscriptions and services, including by selling at zero or negative margins, product bundling or offering closed technology platforms. Some of our competitors also sell directly to end users and, therefore, have a larger addressable market. Potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. As a result, even if the features of our offerings are superior, customers may not purchase our services or products. In addition, innovative start-up companies, and larger companies that are making significant investments in research and development, may invent similar or superior products and technologies that compete with our product and services. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take costly actions in response to the actions of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our competitors have acquired businesses that may allow them to offer more directly competitive and comprehensive solutions than they had previously offered, such as Proofpoint’s acquisition of Sendmail and Armorize, IBM’s acquisition of Trusteer, Blue Coat’s acquisition of Solera, FireEye’s acquisition of Mandiant, and Palo Alto’s acquisition of Cyvera. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and end user needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we can. Due to various reasons, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins, and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors could seriously harm our business and operating results. Also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of business security threat may deliver these specialized business security products to the market more quickly than we can or may introduce innovative new products or enhancements before we do. Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements. 4 If we are unable to enhance our existing solutions and develop new solutions, our growth will be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing solutions and to introduce new solutions. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or solution. Any enhancement or solution we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new solutions or enhance our existing solutions to meet customer requirements, we may not grow as expected. We cannot be certain that our development activities will be successful or that we will not incur delays or cost overruns. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient financial resources to identify and develop new technologies and bring enhancements or new solutions to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. New technologies and enhancements could be delayed or cost more than we expect, and we cannot ensure that any of these solutions will be commercially successful if and when they are introduced. Adverse conditions in the national and global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our financial performance depends, in part, on the state of the economy, which deteriorated in the recent broad recession, and which may further deteriorate in the future. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the information technology industry, resulting in reduced demand for our solutions as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers and increased price competition for our solutions. If the economies of countries in which our customers and potential customers are located continue to be weak or weaken further, our customers may reduce or postpone their spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our services and longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM and service provider partners, distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If the perceived general level of advanced cyber attacks declines, demand for our solutions may decrease, our cost of doing business may increase and our business could be harmed. Our business is substantially dependent on enterprises recognizing that advanced cyber attacks are pervasive and are not effectively prevented by legacy security solutions. High visibility attacks on prominent enterprises and governments have increased market awareness of the problem of advanced cyber attacks and help to provide an impetus for enterprises to devote resources to protecting against advanced cyber attacks, such as purchasing our services and products and broadly deploying our services and products within their organizations. If advanced cyber attacks were to decline, or enterprises perceived that the general level of advanced cyber attacks have declined, our ability to attract new customers and expand our offerings within existing customers could be materially and adversely affected. A reduction in the threat landscape could increase our sales cycles and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, various state legislatures have enacted laws aimed at regulating the distribution of unsolicited email. These and similar legal measures, both in the United States and worldwide, may have the effect of reducing the amount of unsolicited email and malicious software that is distributed and hence diminish the need for our Internet security solutions. Any such developments would have an adverse impact on our revenues. We depend upon OEM partners, service providers and resellers to sell all of our products, and if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products and services will be limited, and our operating results will be harmed. We expect to continue to be dependent upon OEM partners and service providers for a significant portion of our revenues, which will be derived from sales of our messaging, antivirus and web security solutions. We also expect resellers to become important in the distribution of our newer cloud-based Internet security solutions such as CYREN WebSecurity (“CWS”). We anticipate that in the future we will derive a substantial portion of the sales of CWS through channel partners. In order to scale our channel program to support growth in our business, it is important that we help our partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our solutions. We may be unable to successfully expand and improve the effectiveness of our channel sales program. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if: • anticipated orders or payments from these customers fail to materialize; • our customers cease the promotion of our business or begin to promote additional solutions; 5 • our customers are acquired by larger companies who may have other relationships or technologies that lead to the displacement or termination of CYREN contracts; • our customers do not live up to their contractual agreements or fail to pay for services rendered; or • our customers’ businesses fail. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these channel partners, or otherwise develop and expand our indirect distribution channel, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from period to period as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. We may not be able to accurately predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are relatively fixed in the short-term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. In addition, we recognize revenues from sales to some customers or resellers when cash is received, which may be delayed because of issues with those customers or resellers. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that cover our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. A number of factors, many of which are enumerated in this “Risk Factors” section, are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results or cause our share price to decline. These factors include: • our ability to successfully market both our traditional messaging, antivirus and web security solutions and our newer cloud-based Internet security solutions in new markets, both domestic and international; • our ability to successfully develop and market new, modified or upgraded solutions, as may be needed; • the continued acceptance of our solutions by our current customer base; • our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • unanticipated bugs or other problems affecting the delivery of our solutions to customers; • the success of our customers’ sales efforts to their customer base; • the solvency of our customers and their ability to allocate sufficient resources towards the marketing of our solutions; • our customers’ ability to effectively integrate our solutions into their product offerings; • the substantial decrease in information technology spending; • the pricing of our solutions; • our ability to timely collect fees owed by our customers; • a renewed global slowdown; • sudden, dramatic fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies covering the fees we collect from our foreign customers versus the currencies utilized in our business (namely, the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, the U.S. Dollar and Euro); • our ability to add cost-effective space and equipment to our current detection centers in a timely and effective manner to match the rate of growth in our business, plus our ability to build new, cost-effective detection centers as worldwide demand for our products may require; and • the effectiveness of our end user support, whether provided by our customers or directly by CYREN. Our ability to continue to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully execute our sales and business development plan. The complexity of the underlying technological base of messaging, antivirus and web security solutions, and the current landscape of the markets, require highly trained sales and business development personnel to educate prospective resellers, OEM and service provider partners and customers regarding the use and benefits of our solutions. We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new customers and to drive additional use cases and adoption among our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. 6 Our future success depends on our ability to sell additional solutions to our customers. This may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts and may not result in additional sales. In addition, the rate at which our customers purchase additional solutions depends on a number of factors, including the perceived need for additional solutions, growth in the number of end users, and general economic conditions. If our efforts to sell additional solutions to our customers are not successful, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may suffer. We rely on our management team and other key employees and will need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate the members of our management team and other key employees throughout our organization. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, especially in Israel, Berlin, Reykjavík, Palo Alto, and the Washington D.C. area, where we have an office and a need for highly skilled personnel. We may not be successful in attracting qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. Also, to the extent we hire employees from mature public companies with significant financial resources, we may be subject to allegations that such employees have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information or that their former employers own such employees’ inventions or other work product. In addition, we believe that it is important to establish and maintain a corporate culture that facilitates the maintenance and transfer of institutional knowledge within our organization and also fosters innovation, teamwork, a passion for customers and a focus on execution. Our Chief Executive Officer and certain other key members of our management and finance teams have only been working together for a relatively short period of time. If we are not successful in integrating these key employees into our organization, such failure could delay or hinder our product development efforts and the achievement of our strategic objectives, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of our software developers or senior operations personnel may also adversely affect the continued development and support of both our current messaging, antivirus and web security solutions and future solutions presently included in our roadmap for development, thereby causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. We do not have employment agreements inclusive of set periods of employment with any of our key personnel. We cannot prevent them from leaving at any time. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies, listing us as a beneficiary, on any of our employees. If one or more of our key employees resigns or otherwise ceases to provide us with their service, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be harmed. Our business and operating results could suffer if we do not successfully address potential risks inherent in doing business overseas. We market and sell our products throughout the world and have personnel in many parts of the world. In addition, we have sales offices and research and development facilities outside the United States and we conduct, and expect to continue to conduct, a significant amount of our business with companies that are located outside the United States, particularly in Israel, Asia and Europe. We also enter into strategic distributor and reseller relationships with companies in certain international markets where we do not have a local presence. If we are not able to maintain successful strategic distributor relationships internationally or recruit additional companies to enter into strategic distributor relationships, our future success in these international markets could be limited. Business practices in the international markets that we serve may differ from those in the United States and Israel and may require us in the future to include terms other than our standard terms in customer contracts, although to date we generally have not done so. To the extent that we enter into customer contracts in the future that include non-standard terms related to payment, warranties, or performance obligations, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Additionally, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; • risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including the importation, certification, and localization of our products required in foreign countries; • the potential that our operations in Israel and the U.S. may limit the acceptability of our products to some foreign governments, and vice versa; 7 • greater risk of a failure of foreign employees, partners, distributors, and resellers to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; • heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements; • the potential for acts of terrorism, hostilities or war; • increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our multinational operations; • greater difficulty in recruiting local experienced personnel, and the costs and expenses associated with such activities; • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion; • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, NIS and foreign currencies in markets where we do business; and • general economic and political conditions and uncertainties in these foreign markets. These factors and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our web security solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive sufficient components from third party suppliers. Our web security solution relies in part on certain components supplied by third parties pursuant to contractual relationships. If these third parties breach their agreements with us, we may have difficulty in securing alternative sources for these components in a timely manner and thus our web security solution may not perform at the level we expect. If this were to occur, the effectiveness of this solution would drop, it would become less attractive to customers/potential customers and anticipated revenues could decline. Technology Risks We may not have the resources or skills required to adapt to the changing technological requirements and shifting preferences of our customers and their users. The messaging, antimalware and web security industries are characterized by difficult technological challenges, sophisticated distributors of Internet security threats, multiple-variant viruses, advance persistent threats, unique phishing scams and constantly evolving malevolent software distribution practices and targets that could render our solutions and proprietary technology ineffective. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continually enhance our existing messaging, antimalware and web security solutions and to develop new solutions, functions and technology that address the potential needs of prospective and current customers and their users. Many of our end users operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to adapt to increasingly complex IT networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. As their technologies and business plans grow more complex, we expect these customers to face new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack. We face significant challenges in ensuring that our solutions effectively identify and respond to these advanced and evolving attacks without disrupting our customers’ network performance. As a result of the continued rapid innovations in the technology industry, including the rapid growth of smart phones, tablets and other devices and the trend of “bring your own device” in enterprises, we expect the networks of our end users to continue to change rapidly and become more complex. We have identified a number of new products and enhancements to our platform that we believe are important to our continued success in the IT security market. For example, in February 2014, we announced the introduction of CWS, our first service launched through our cloud infrastructure that offers end users secure browsing from any device, anywhere. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, such new products or enhancements or that our new products or enhancements will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. In addition, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new architectures that involve complex, expensive and time-consuming research and development processes. Although the market expects rapid introduction of new products and enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products and enhancements is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain, as there can be significant time lags between initial beta releases and the commercial availability of new products and enhancements. We may experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and enhancements to our platform and fail to meet customer expectations with respect to the timing of such availability. If we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our customers by developing, releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and enhancements to our services and products that can adequately respond to advanced threats and our customers’ needs, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. Furthermore, from time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products with capabilities or technologies that could have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing services products. Announcements of new products could cause customers to defer purchasing our existing services or products. 8 Additionally, the process of developing new technology is expensive, complex and uncertain. The success of new products and enhancements depends on several factors, including appropriate component costs, timely completion and introduction, differentiation of new products and services from those of our competitors, and market acceptance. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to commit significant resources to developing new products or services before knowing whether these investments will be cost-effective or achieve the intended results. We may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products or services to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our platform. Products and technologies developed by others may render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive. If we expend significant resources on researching and developing products or services and such products and services are not successful, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt to OEM, service provider, customer or end user requirements or emerging industry standards. Our solutions may be adversely affected by defects or denial of service attacks, which could cause our OEM and service provider partners, customers or end users to stop using our solutions. Our messaging, antimalware and web security solutions are based in part upon new and complex software and highly advanced computer systems. Complex software and computer systems can contain defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released, and are possible targets for denial of service attacks instigated by “hackers”. Although we conduct extensive testing and implement Internet security processes, we may not discover defects or vulnerabilities in our software or systems that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are delivered. Although we have not experienced any material defects or vulnerabilities to date in our messaging, antimalware and web security offerings, it is possible that, despite testing by us, defects or vulnerabilities may exist in the solutions we provide. These defects or vulnerabilities could cause or lead to interruptions for customers of our solutions, resulting in damage to our reputation, legal risks, loss of revenue, delays in market acceptance and diversion of our development resources, any of which could cause our business, financial condition and/or results of operations to suffer. Real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our services or the failure of our services to block malware or prevent a security breach could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain design or manufacturing defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our end users. For example, from time to time, certain of our end users have reported defects in our products related to performance, scalability and compatibility that were not detected before offering the service. Additionally, defects may cause our products or services to be vulnerable to security attacks, cause them to fail to help secure networks or temporarily interrupt end users’ networking traffic. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques and provide a solution in time to protect our end users’ networks. Furthermore, as a well-known provider of Internet security solutions, our networks, products, and services could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business and harm our reputation. Our data centers and networks may experience technical failures and downtime, may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or may fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing end user base, any of which could temporarily or permanently expose our end users’ networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. Any real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our services, or any other failure of our services to detect an advanced threat, could result in: • a loss of existing or potential customers or channel partners; • delayed or lost revenue; • a delay in attaining, or the failure to attain, market acceptance; • the expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects, to address and eliminate vulnerabilities, or to identify and ramp up production with alternative third-party manufacturers; • an increase in warranty claims, or an increase in the cost of servicing warranty claims, either of which would adversely affect our gross margins; 9 • harm to our reputation or brand; and • litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly to address and further harm our reputation. Data thieves are sophisticated, often affiliated with organized crime and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. In addition, their techniques change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. If we fail to identify and respond to new and complex methods of attack and to update our services to detect or prevent such threats in time to protect our end users’ systems, our business and reputation will suffer. An actual or perceived security breach or theft of the sensitive data of one of our end users, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security offerings. Despite our best efforts, there is no guarantee that our products and services will be free of flaws or vulnerabilities, and even if we discover these weaknesses we may not be able to correct them promptly, if at all. Our end user customers may also misuse our products and services, which could result in a breach or theft of business data. Our messaging, antimalware and web security solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive a sufficient sampling of Internet traffic or our Detection Centers were to become unavailable. Our messaging, antimalware and web security solutions are dependent, in part, on the ability of our Detection Centers to analyze, in an automated fashion, live feeds of Internet and web related traffic received through our services to customers and other contractual arrangements. If we were to suffer an unanticipated, substantial decrease in such traffic or our multiple Detection Centers become unavailable for any significant period, the effectiveness of our technologies would drop, our product offerings would become less attractive to customers/potential customers and revenues could decline. False detection of applications, viruses, malware, spyware, vulnerability exploits, data patterns or URL categories could adversely affect our business. Our classifications of application type, virus, malware, spyware, vulnerability exploits, data, or URL categories may falsely detect applications, content or threats that do not actually exist. This risk is heightened by the inclusion of a “heuristics” feature in our products, which attempts to identify applications and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies which indicate that a particular item may be a threat. These “false positives”, while typical in our industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our services and products. If our services and products restrict important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end users’ systems and cause material system failures. Any such false identification of important files or applications could result in damage to our reputation, negative publicity, loss of end users and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. Our new cloud-based SecaaS offerings are nascent service offerings, so we may not see the customer traction in these offerings that we anticipate. Security as a Service (SecaaS) is a model of cloud-based services offerings. In February 2014, we released CWS, our cloud-based security service that provides end users secure browsing from any device, anywhere. CWS is our push into the cloud-based Internet security sector. The solutions we are promoting and will promote to this market will enable Internet security vendors and service providers to offer fully cloud-based, Internet security solutions to their customers, without the need for the integration of a software development kit, or SDK, into their product offerings. Among other things, this cloud-based approach is intended to speed up the process of moving our solutions to market, and ease the integration burden for our customers. In recent years, companies have begun to expect that key security software services, such as URL filtering, be provided through a SecaaS model. In order to provide CWS via a SecaaS deployment, we have made and will continue to make capital investments to implement this alternative business model, which could negatively affect our financial results. Even with these investments, the SecaaS business model for CWS may not be successful. Because of the newness of the technologies involved and the resulting learning curve required of all employees in the sale and support of the new offerings, we cannot be certain that we will convince potential customers of the benefits of these new offerings and sell them at the rate we anticipate. If we fall short of our expectations, and especially given the significant resources invested by us in bringing these new offerings to market, our financial results will suffer and the value of shareholder investments will decline. If we fail to develop or protect our new brand CYREN, our business may be harmed. In January 2014, we announced the Company would change its name from Commtouch to CYREN. We adopted our new name as we completed our transformation into a leading provider of cloud-based information security solutions that are specially designed to be deployed or private labeled by customers and partners alike. Developing and maintaining awareness and integrity of our company and our new brand are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future offerings and are important elements in attracting new customers. The importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions at competitive prices. We plan to continue investing substantial resources to promote our brand, both domestically and internationally, but there is no guarantee that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand. Some of our existing and potential competitors have well-established brands with greater recognition than we have. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, this may not result in increased use of our solutions or higher revenue. 10 Investment Risks Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new services and products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features to enhance our services and products, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or that otherwise restrict our ability to operate our business. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be adversely affected. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and could delay or prevent a change of control. Our CEO, Lior Samuelson, is also Chairman of our Board of Directors. Our directors and affiliates of our directors, our executive officers and our shareholders who currently individually beneficially own over five percent of the voting power in the Company (together known as “affiliated entities”), beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 22.8% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares as of April 1, 2014. Included in the calculation of voting power are options exercisable by the affiliated entities within 60 days thereof (with some having an exercise price greater than the market price of our shares as of April 1, 2014). If they vote together (especially if they were to exercise all vested options into shares entitled to voting rights in the Company), these shareholders will be able to exercise significant influence over many matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In this regard, we know of no shareholders or voting agreement between major shareholders or between such shareholders and directors or officers. This concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of CYREN. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise as a consequence of the significant shareholders control relationship with us, including: • conflicts between significant shareholders, and our other shareholders whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction or significant corporate transactions; • conflicts related to corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us, on the one hand, or by these shareholders, on the other hand; or • conflicts related to existing or new contractual relationships between us, on the one hand, and these shareholders, on the other hand. Our Ordinary Shares often trade at different prices on NASDAQ and TASE. Our Ordinary Shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Capital Market and also on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our Ordinary Shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our Ordinary Shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our Ordinary Shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Ordinary Shares on the other market. 11 Intellectual Property Risks If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for significant damages. We regard our patented and patent pending technology, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and customers to protect our proprietary rights. See 