ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision regarding an investment in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. 6 Table of Contents We have discovered potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the resolution of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal year 2008, our internal audit department identified certain payments and gifts made by certain personnel in our China operations that may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). Following this discovery, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors initiated an independent investigation. We have made a voluntary disclosure to the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC regarding the results of our investigation. We have also implemented additional policies and controls with respect to compliance with the FCPA. The FCPA and related statutes and regulations provide for potential monetary penalties, criminal sanctions and in some cases debarment from doing business with the U.S. federal government in connection with FCPA violations. We are cooperating with the DOJ and the SEC in connection with their review of the matter and are seeking to achieve a negotiated resolution of all matters pertaining to the transactions in question. However, the final outcome of this or any future government investigation cannot be predicted with certainty and any indictment, conviction or material fine, debarment or settlement arising out of these investigations could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that additional financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets and a low level of liquidity in many financial markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance manufacturing of their products, resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses and governments may postpone spending in response to tighter credit and/or negative financial news, which could have a material negative effect on demand for our products. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against various foreign currencies. Political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, and other circumstances could materially adversely affect us. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us and our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors, and customers, including channel partners. Our business operations are potentially subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our future revenues are unpredictable, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include significant shortfalls in revenue relative to our planned expenditures, changes in budget allocations by the federal government for homeland security purposes, changes in world-wide energy production and refining, market acceptance of our products, ongoing product development and production, competitive pressures and customer retention. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results may fall below the expectations of investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. 7 Table of Contents We may have difficulty achieving and sustaining profitability and may experience additional losses in the future. If we continue to report losses or are marginally profitable, the financial impact of future events may be magnified and may lead to a disproportionate impact on the trading price of our stock. We recorded net losses of $7.2 million, $14.7 million and $1.5 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In order to improve our profitability, we will need to continue to generate new sales while controlling our costs. As we plan on continuing the growth of our business while implementing cost control measures, we may not be able to successfully generate enough revenues to return to profitability. Any failure to increase our revenues and control costs as we pursue our planned growth would harm our profitability and would likely result in a negative effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our financial results have historically bordered at or near profitability, and if we continue to perform at this level, the financial impact may be magnified and we may experience a disproportionate impact on our trading price as a result. If we continue to incur losses, any particular financial event could result in a relatively large change in our financial results or could be the difference between us having a profit or a loss for the particular quarter in which it occurs. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including potential future acquisitions and our ability to generate revenue and control costs. Should we have the need to raise additional capital, we might not be able to do so at all or on favorable terms. In the case of any future equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on favorable terms, or at all, our business and results of operations could be harmed and our liquidity could be adversely affected. The market for gas and radiation detection monitoring devices is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete effectively, our business may be harmed. The market for gas and radiation detection monitoring devices is highly competitive. Competitors in the gas and radiation monitoring industry differentiate themselves on the basis of their technology, quality of product and service offerings, cost and time to market. Our primary competitors in the gas detection market include Industrial Scientific Corporation, Mine Safety Appliances Company, Honeywell (BW Technologies), Ion Science, Draeger Safety Inc., Gastec Corporation and Bacou-Dalloz Group. Our competitors in the radiation market include Canberra, Exporanium, ICx, MGP, Polimaster Ltd., Santa Barbara Systems, Smiths, Thermo Fisher and TSA Limited. Several of our competitors such as Mine Safety Appliances Company, Draeger Safety Inc. and Smiths have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to: • devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or • devote more resources to technology and systems development. In light of these factors, we may be unable to compete successfully. We may not be successful in the development or introduction of new products and services in a timely and effective manner and, consequently, we may not be able to remain competitive and the results of operations may suffer. Our revenue growth is dependent on the timely introduction of new products to market. We may be unsuccessful in identifying new product and service opportunities or in developing or marketing new products and services in a timely or cost-effective manner. In developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. 8 Table of Contents We have expanded our current business of providing gas detection instruments to include radiation detection and wireless systems for local and remote security monitoring. While we perceive a large market for such products, the radiation detection and wireless systems markets are still evolving, and we have little basis to assess the demand for these products and services or to evaluate whether our products and services will be accepted by the market. If our radiation detection products and wireless products and services do not gain broad market acceptance or if we do not continue to maintain the necessary technology, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, compliance with safety regulations, specifically the need to obtain regulatory approvals in certain jurisdictions, could delay the introduction of new products by us. As a result, we may experience delays in realizing revenues from our new products. The securities laws and regulations have and are likely to continue to have a significant effect on our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”) and the rules promulgated by the SEC, the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) and the New York Stock Exchange in relation thereto require significant legal, financial and accounting compliance costs, and we expect these costs to continue indefinitely. In particular, given the complexity of our international operations relative to our size, our compliance costs are expected to continue to result in comparatively high general and administrative expenses as a percentage of our revenue. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting or, if these controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. In designing and evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we recognize that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives. For example, a company’s operations may change over time as the result of new or discontinued lines of business and management must periodically modify a company’s internal controls and procedures to timely match these changes in its business. In addition, management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures and company personnel are required to use judgment in their application. While we continue to improve upon our internal control over financial reporting so that it can provide reasonable assurance of achieving its control objectives, no system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. In our 2006 annual report on Form 10-K, management identified one material weakness relating to assurance that information from our Chinese subsidiaries has been properly adjusted to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) for inclusion in our annual or interim financial statements. As a consequence, beginning with the first quarter of 2007, management of the Company initiated steps to implement a number of compensating controls and remediation measures to improve the level of assurance to ensure that the information from our Chinese subsidiaries had been properly adjusted to U.S. GAAP. As of December 31, 2007, our management concluded that the previously identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting had been remediated. Our internal control over financial reporting and management’s remediation efforts is available under the subheading “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting”, in our annual report of Form 10-K and under the subheading “Controls and Procedures” therein. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting may materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. We are subject to risks and uncertainties of the government marketplace, including the risk that the government may not fund projects that our products are designed to address and that certain terms of our contracts with government agencies may subject us to adverse government actions or penalties. Our business is dependent in part upon government funded projects. Decisions on what types of projects are to be funded by local, state and federal government agencies may have a material impact on our business. The Federal 9 Table of Contents budget for the Department of Homeland Security, which we refer to as “Homeland Security” herein, is a source for funding for many of our customers either directly or through grants to state and local agencies. However, if the government does not fund projects that our products are designed to address, or funds such projects at levels lower than we expect, our business and results of operations will be harmed. From time to time we enter into government contracts that contain provisions which subject us to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. For example, a portion of our federal contracting has been done through our distributors who are on the Federal Supply Schedules from the United States General Services Administration (GSA). GSA Schedule contracts which we may enter into often include a clause known as the “Price Reductions” clause; the terms of that clause are similar but not identical to a “most favored customer” clause in commercial contracts. Under that clause, we may agree that the prices to the government under the GSA Schedules contract will maintain a constant relationship to the prices charged to certain commercial customers, i.e., when prices to those benchmark customers drop, our prices on our GSA Schedules contract must be adjusted accordingly. Although when we are party to these contracts we undertake extensive efforts to comply with the Price Reductions clause, it is possible that we may have an unreported discount offered to a “Basis of Award” customer and may have failed to honor the obligations of the Price Reductions clause. If that occurs, we could, under certain circumstances, be subject to an audit, an action in fraud, or other adverse government actions or penalties. We may not be successful in promoting and developing our brand, which could prevent us from remaining competitive. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to maintain and strengthen the RAE brand, which will depend, in turn, largely on the success of our marketing efforts and ability to provide our customers with high-quality products. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur excessive expenses in attempting to promote and maintain our brand, our business will be harmed. We may face risks from our substantial international operations and sales. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 43% and 46% of our revenues, respectively, were from sales to customers located in Asia and approximately 16% and 13% of our revenues, respectively, were from sales to customers located in Europe. We have manufacturing facilities in China and in the United States. A significant portion of our products and components are manufactured at our facility in Shanghai, China. Our international operations are subject to economic and other risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: • difficulties with staffing and managing international operations; • transportation and supply chain disruptions and increased transportation expense as a result of epidemics, terrorist activity, acts of war or hostility, increased security and less developed infrastructure; • economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; • international currency fluctuations; • political and economic uncertainty caused by epidemics, terrorism or acts of war or hostility; • legislative and regulatory responses to terrorist activity such as increased restrictions on cross-border movement of products and technology; • legislative, regulatory, police, or civil responses to epidemics or other outbreaks of infectious diseases such as quarantines, factory closures, or increased restrictions on transportation or travel; • increased costs and complexities associated with complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; 10 Table of Contents • general strikes or other disruptions in working conditions; • labor shortages; • political instability; • changes in tariffs; • generally longer periods to collect receivables; • unexpected legislative or regulatory requirements; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • significant unexpected duties or taxes or other adverse tax consequences; • difficulty in obtaining export licenses and other trade barriers; and • ability to obtain credit and access to capital issues faced by our international customers. The specific economic conditions in each country will impact our future international sales. For example, approximately half of our recognized revenue has been denominated in U.S. dollars. Significant downward fluctuations in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could result in higher product prices and/or declining margins and increased manufacturing costs. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with international operations and sales, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Like other companies operating or selling internationally, we are subject to the FCPA and other laws which prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Our sales activities in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors which could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. We have implemented new policies and procedures to prevent losses from such practices and to discourage such practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and distributors and are continuing our efforts to improve such policies and procedures. However, our existing safeguards and any improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of “Normal Trade Relation” status for China, changes in current tariff structures or adoption of other trade policies adverse to China could have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to import products from China at current tariff levels could be materially and adversely affected if the “normal trade relations” (“NTR”, formerly “most favored nation”) status the United States government has granted to China for trade and tariff purposes is terminated. As a result of its NTR status, China receives the same favorable tariff treatment that the United States extends to its other “normal” trading partners. China’s NTR status, coupled with its membership in the World Trade Organization, could eventually reduce barriers to manufacturing products in and exporting products from China. However, we cannot provide any assurance that China’s membership in the World Trade Organization or NTR status will not change. As a result of opposition to certain policies of the Chinese government and China’s growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to NTR status for China. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of NTR status with, China, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the United States or Europe and harm our business. Because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected if any of the risks described above were to occur. 11 Table of Contents The government of China may change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment, in which case our assets and operations may be at risk. We currently manufacture and sell a significant portion of our components and products in China. Our existing and planned operations in China are subject to the general risks of doing business internationally and the specific risks related to the business, economic and political conditions in China, which include the possibility that the central government of China will change or even reverse its policies of promoting private industry and foreign investment in China. Many of the current reforms which support private business in China are unprecedented or experimental. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities of per capita wealth among citizens of China and between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the government’s reform measures. It is not possible to predict whether the Chinese government will continue to be as supportive of private business in China, nor is it possible to predict how future reforms will affect our business. Any failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. Notwithstanding these laws, we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights or in obtaining patents or registered trademarks for which we apply. Although processes are in place to protect our intellectual property rights, we cannot guarantee that these procedures are adequate to prevent misappropriation of our current technology or that our competitors will not develop technology that is similar to our own. While there is no single patent or license to technology of material significance to the Company, our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in general. For example, we have a collection of patents related to our photoionization detector technology, the first of which expires in 2012, and our ability to compete may be affected by any competing similar or new technology. In addition, if we lose the licensing rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. We cannot ensure that our future patent applications will be approved or that our current patents will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid and enforceable. Any litigation relating to our intellectual property rights could, regardless of the outcome, have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that might be costly to resolve and affect our results of operations. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. We may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on less favorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements, any one of which could seriously harm our business. For example, for the last several years we have been involved in a dispute with Polimaster Ltd. which required us to incur substantial professional fees. Although we ultimately prevailed, it is uncertain whether we will be able to recover any of the amounts awarded to us. Claims of this type, regardless of merit, can be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. The terms of any 12 Table of Contents such license agreements may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and the assertion or prosecution of any infringement claims could significantly harm our business. Some of our products may be subject to product liability claims which could be costly to resolve and affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to third-party claims in connection with our products or that any indemnification or insurance available to us will be adequate to protect us from liability. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We sell a majority of our products through distributors, and if our distributors stop selling our products, our revenues would suffer. We distribute our products in the Americas primarily through distributors. We are dependent upon these distributors to sell our products and to assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products. Distributors are an important sales channel for our future growth. If one or more of our distributors were to experience financial difficulties or become unwilling to promote and sell our products for any reason, including any refusal to renew their commitment as our distributor, we might not be able to replace such lost revenue, and our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Because we purchase a significant portion of our component parts from a limited number of third party suppliers, we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to acquire quality components in a timely manner, which could result in delays of product shipments and damage our business and operating results. We currently purchase component parts used in the manufacture of our products from a limited number of third party suppliers. We depend on these suppliers to meet our needs for various sensors, microprocessors and other material components. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited control. Should we encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components, we might not be able to supply products in a timely manner due to a lack of components, and our business could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value or harm our results of operations. In the last several years, we increased our ownership of RAE Beijing to 96%, acquired Aegison Corporation and Tianjin Securay Technology Co., Ltd. and formed RAE Fushun. In August 2007, we determined to discontinue the Aegison and Securay businesses. We may acquire or make additional investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume much of our management’s time and attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses related to goodwill recognition and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Our ownership interest in Renex will cause us to incur losses that we would not otherwise incur. We currently own approximately 40% of Renex Technology Ltd. (“Renex”), a wireless systems company. We are required to incorporate our share of its expenses as losses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. If Renex does not begin to generate revenues at the level we anticipate or otherwise incurs greater losses, we could incur greater losses than we anticipate and our results of operations will suffer. 13 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we lose the services of any of our executive officers. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers. We have no formal employment agreements with any of our executives other than the initial offer letter, if applicable. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could harm our business. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 33% of our common stock and, accordingly, may exert substantial influence over the Company. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 33% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. These stockholders acting together have the ability to substantially influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of the directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they may dictate the management of our business and affairs. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination and may substantially reduce the marketability of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 