ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information contained in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition to the other information included in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. As of July 31, 2013, eOn sold its products to PiOn in consideration of an initial cash payment and future royalty payments from PiOn’s future sales of these products. As a result, the Company’s future profitability is now dependent upon the revenues generated by the Company’s subsidiaries, Cortelco and CSPR, and royalty payments from PiOn. Royalty payments are due only when and if eOn Products are sold by PiOn, so the amount of such future payments is uncertain. Downturns in the U.S. and Puerto Rico economies adversely affect operating results. Weakness in the U.S. and Puerto Rico economies has had a negative effect on our operating results. In an economic slowdown, we may also experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. Worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession could adversely affect our operating results. Further, we cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive, improvement in our operating results or cash flows. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline. Future operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: ·Delays or difficulties in introducing new products; ·Increasing expenses without commensurate revenue increases; ·Variations in the mix of products sold; ·Variations in the timing or size of orders from our customers; ·Delayed deliveries from suppliers and ·Price decreases and other actions by our competitors. Our quarterly operating results are also likely to fluctuate due to seasonal factors. Some of our vertical markets, such as the U.S. government, educational and retail buyers, follow seasonal buying patterns and do not make substantial purchases during our fiscal quarters ending January 31. Thus, revenues in the quarters ending January 31 are often lower than in the previous quarters. Because of these and other factors, our operating results may not meet expectations in some future quarters, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our products must respond to rapidly changing market needs and integrate with changing protocols to remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, uncertain product life cycles and changing customer requirements. If we are not able to rapidly and efficiently develop new products and improve existing products to meet the changing needs of our customers and to adopt changing communications standards, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Although the Company does not have any new products in internal development, Cortelco has partnered with companies that possess technical expertise to develop new products to meet changing market requirements. There is no assurance that these partnerships will enable the Company to be competitive, considering the rapid technological changes in our industry. We expect competition to intensify as competitors develop new products, new competitors enter the market, and companies with complementary products enter into strategic alliances. Our current and potential competitors can be grouped into the following categories: 8 ·VoIP telephone manufacturers, such as Polycom, Linksys, Snom, Grand Stream and Aastra; ·Telephony product suppliers such as KGP Logistics, Telematrix, Vtech, Aastra, and Panasonic. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name and brand recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. Therefore, our competitors may be able to respond to new or emerging technologies and changes faster than we can. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Actions by our competitors could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which would damage our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against these competitors. We may not accurately forecast customer demand for our products. We use forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding the investment of resources and production of our product. Failure to accurately predict high customer demand for a product can result in lost sales or low gross margins on product incurring higher costs to meet demand. Failure to accurately predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower gross margins if price reductions are required to reduce inventories. Our strategic relationships with third parties may not be successful. Our ability to develop our business will depend on our ability to identify partnership opportunities and to enter into suitable commercial arrangements and to maintain close working relationships with these and other industry participants. Our success in this area will also depend on our ability to select and evaluate suitable projects, as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. To develop our business, we plan to use the business relationships of our management team in order to form strategic relationships. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and local government bodies and contractual arrangements with other companies. We may not be able to establish these strategic relationships, or, if established, may not be able to maintain these relationships, particularly if members of the management team leave us. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake to fulfill our obligations to these partners and/or maintain these relationships. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, we may not be able to achieve our business goals and that could adversely affect our anticipated results of operations and financial condition. Delayed deliveries of components from our single source suppliers or third-party manufacturers could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. Interruptions in the availability of components from our key suppliers could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which could damage our customer relationships and harm our operating results. Finding alternate suppliers or modifying product designs to use alternative components may cause delays and expenses. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more third-party components or subassemblies could reduce our gross profit. We buy many of our Cortelco products from various offshore suppliers with whom we have worked for several years. We are dependent on sole source suppliers for certain components and finished goods. Interruptions in the availability of these items from our key suppliers could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which could damage our customer relationships and harm our operating results. Finding alternate suppliers or modifying product designs to use alternative components could cause delays and result in additional expenses. We may be unable to hire and retain engineering and sales and marketing personnel necessary to execute our business strategy. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel. If we cannot attract, hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully develop, market and sell new products. 9 Our business could be harmed if we lose principal members of our management team. We are highly dependent on the continued service of our management team. The loss of any key member of our management team may substantially disrupt our business and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, replacing management personnel could be costly and time consuming. We are effectively controlled by our principal stockholders and management, which may limit your ability to influence stockholder matters. As of September 30, 2013, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned 861,669 shares, or 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock. Thus, they effectively control us and direct our affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company and some transactions may be more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with those of other stockholders. We also conduct transactions with businesses in which our principal stockholders maintain interests. We believe that these transactions have been conducted on an arm’s length basis, but we cannot assure you that these transactions would have the same terms if conducted with unrelated third parties. Our products may have undetected faults leading to liability claims, which could harm our business. Our products may contain undetected faults or failures. Any failures of our products could result in significant losses to our customers, particularly in mission-critical applications. A failure could also result in product returns and the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, any failure of our products could result in claims against us. Our purchase agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in our purchase agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover all possible claims asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could be expensive to defend and consume management time and resources. Our charter contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage take-over attempts and may reduce our stock price. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors, even if such changes were favored by a majority of the stockholders. These include provisions that provide for a staggered board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. Future sales of shares may decrease our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. 10 