Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock will likely decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business Weakness in the financial markets and in the economy as a whole has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect segments of our customers, which has resulted and may continue to result in decreased usage levels, customer acquisitions and customer retention rates and, in turn, could lead to a decrease in our revenues or rate of revenue growth. Certain segments of our customers - those whose business activity is tied to the health of the credit markets and the broader economy, such as banks, brokerage firms and those in the real estate industry - have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the current weakness in the credit markets and in the broader mortgage market and the general economy. To the extent our customers’ businesses have been adversely affected by these economic factors and their usage levels of our services decline, we experienced and may continue to experience a decrease in our average usage per subscriber and, therefore, a decrease in our average variable revenue per subscriber. In addition, continued weakness in the economy has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our customer retention rates and the number of our new customer acquisitions. These factors have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our revenues and profitability. Increased numbers of credit and debit card declines as a result of decreased availability of credit and/or a weak economy which continues to experience heightened levels of unemployment could lead to a decrease in our revenues or rate of revenue growth. A significant number of our paid subscribers pay for their services through credit and debit cards. Weakness in certain segments of the credit markets and in the U.S. and global economies, which continue to experience heightened levels of unemployment, has resulted in and may continue to result in increased numbers of rejected credit and debit card payments. We believe this has resulted in and may continue to result in increased customer cancellations and decreased customer signups. This also has required and may continue to require us to increase our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivables. The foregoing may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher-than-expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged or we may find tax-beneficial intercompany transactions to be uneconomical, either of which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. A number of factors affect our income tax rate and the combined effect of these factors could result in an increase in our effective income tax rate. An increase in future effective income tax rates would adversely affect net income in future periods. We operate in different countries that have different income tax rates. Effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries having lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries having higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. A substantial portion of our cash and investments are invested outside of the U.S. We may be subject to incremental taxes upon repatriation of such funds to the U.S. We may be subject to examination of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service for tax years 2004 through 2008. In addition, we are under audit by the California Franchise Tax Board for tax years 2005 through 2007 and by the Illinois Department of Revenue for 2005 and 2006. We are also under audit by various other states for non-income related taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income and other tax-related reserves and expense. If our reserves are not sufficient to cover these contingencies, such inadequacy could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. - 8 - - Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands and market new brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current brands and effectively launch new brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. In addition, we are supporting an increasing number of brands, each of which requires its own resources. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expense in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business could be harmed. If our trademarks are not adequately protected or we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our trademarks. We rely on some brands that use the letter “e” before a word, such as “eFax” and “eVoice”. Some regulators and competitors have taken the view that the “e” is descriptive. Others have claimed that these brands are generic when applied to the products and services we offer. If we are unable to secure and protect trademark rights to these or other brands, the value of these brands may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brands, both in the U.S. and internationally, including efax.com and various other international extensions, evoice.com, fax.com, onebox.com and others. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the U.S. may change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in the U.S. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights in the U.S. is unclear. Similarly, international rules governing the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in foreign jurisdictions are sometimes different from U.S. rules, and we may not be able to obtain all of our domains internationally. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. In addition, failure to protect our domain names domestically or internationally could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our Websites and our services. We may be subject to risks from international operations. As we continue to expand our business operations in countries outside the U.S., our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to provide our services; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries and affiliates. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We have only limited experience in marketing and operating our services in certain international markets. Moreover, we have in some cases experienced and expect to continue to experience in some cases higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with establishing and providing services in international markets versus the U.S. In addition, certain international markets may be slower than the U.S. in adopting the Internet and/or outsourced messaging and communications solutions and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investments. We rely heavily on the revenue generated by our fax services. Currently, a substantial portion of the overall traffic on our network is fax related. Our success is therefore dependent upon the continued use of fax as a messaging medium and/or our ability to diversify our service offerings and derive more revenue from other services, such as voice, email and unified messaging solutions. If the demand for fax as a messaging medium decreases, and we are unable to replace lost revenues from decreased usage of our fax services with a proportional increase in our customer base or with revenues from our other services, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. - 9 - - We believe that one of the attractions to fax versus alternatives, such as email, is that fax signatures are a generally accepted method of executing contracts. There are on-going efforts by governmental and non-governmental entities, many of which possess greater resources than we do, to create a universally accepted method for electronically signing documents. Widespread adoption of so-called “digital signatures” could reduce demand for our fax services and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we experience excessive fraudulent activity or cannot meet evolving credit card company merchant standards, we could incur substantial costs and lose the right to accept credit cards for payment and our subscriber base could decrease significantly. A significant number of our paid subscribers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all service fees charged by us. If people use our services using stolen credit cards, we could incur substantial third party vendor costs for which we may not be reimbursed. We also incur losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the credit card transaction to purchase our service. If the numbers of unauthorized credit card transactions become excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks and we could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment. In addition, credit card companies may change the merchant standards required to utilize their services from time to time. If we are unable to meet these new standards, we could be unable to accept credit cards. Substantial losses due to fraud or our inability to accept credit card payments, which could cause our paid subscriber base to significantly decrease, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value added tax (“VAT”), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses such as j2 Global and our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of e-commerce and several other proposals have been made at the U.S. federal, state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce, hamper our ability to retain and attract new customers and diminish our ability to derive financial benefit from our activities. In November 2007, the U.S. federal government enacted legislation extending the moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. The application of existing, new or future laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. A system failure or security breach could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our network from interruption by damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses or other events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our existing and planned precautions of backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols and other procedures will be adequate to prevent significant damage, system failure or data loss. Also, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers or similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers, employees or other Internet users who attempt to invade public and private data networks. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit or debit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit and debit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. Any system failure or security breach that causes interruptions or data loss in our operations or in the computer systems of our customers or leads to the misappropriation of our or our customers’ confidential information could result in significant liability to us, cause considerable harm to us and our reputation and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our business is dependent on a small number of telecommunications carriers in each region and our inability to maintain agreements at attractive rates with such carriers may negatively impact our business. Our business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our telecommunications networks. Only a small number of carriers in each region, and in some cases only one carrier, offer the telephone number and network services - 10 - - we require. Certain of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. As a result, any or all of our current carriers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain adequate replacements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The successful operation of our business depends upon the supply of critical elements and marketing relationships from other companies. We depend upon third parties for several critical elements of our business, including various technology, infrastructure, customer service and marketing components. We rely on private third-party providers for our Internet and telephony connections and for co-location of a significant portion of our communications servers. Any disruption in the services provided by any of these suppliers, or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of activity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To obtain new customers, we have marketing agreements with operators of leading search engines and Websites. These arrangements typically are not exclusive and do not extend over a significant period of time. Failure to continue these relationships on terms that are acceptable to us or to continue to create additional relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technology. Our success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures provide only limited protection, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. While we have been issued a number of patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted under these patents will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. Companies in the messaging industry have experienced substantial litigation regarding intellectual property. Currently, we have pending patent infringement lawsuits, both offensive and defensive, against several companies in this industry. This or any other litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights may be expensive and time-consuming, could divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business. We may be found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to substantial damages or restrict our operations. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to claims and legal proceedings that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The ready availability of damages, royalties and the potential for injunctive relief has increased the costs associated with the litigation and settlement of patent infringement claims. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our resellers and users for similar claims made against them. Any claims against us, whether or not meritorious, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, pay damages, develop new intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims. These licenses, if required, may not be available at all or have acceptable terms. As a result, intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time we are subject to litigation or claims, including in the areas of patent infringement and anti-trust, that could negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention and negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the outcome of our currently pending cases. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. These payments may be material. For a more detailed description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. - 11 - - The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our competitors may have greater resources to commit to growth, superior technologies, cheaper pricing or more effective marketing strategies. For information regarding our competition, and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled Competition contained in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, some of our competitors include major companies with much greater resources and significantly larger subscriber bases than we have. Some of these competitors offer their services at lower prices than we do. These companies may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter markets that we are currently serving and plan to serve or that we will be able to compete effectively. Competitive pressures may reduce our revenue, operating profits or both. Our business is highly dependent on our billing systems. A significant part of our revenues depends on prompt and accurate billing processes. Customer billing is a highly complex process, and our billing systems must efficiently interface with third-party systems, such as those of credit card processing companies. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill our subscribers is dependent on the successful operation of our billing systems and the third-party systems upon which we rely, such as our credit card processor, and our ability to provide these third parties the information required to process transactions. In addition, our ability to offer new paid services or alternative-billing plans is dependent on our ability to customize our billing systems. We are in the process of upgrading our current billing systems to meet the needs of our growing subscriber base. Any failures or errors in our billing systems or procedures or resulting from any upgrades to our billing systems or procedures could impair our ability to properly bill our current customers or attract and service new customers, and thereby could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Future acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We may acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, services and technologies that complement or augment our service offerings and customer base. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate disparate technologies and corporate cultures and manage a geographically dispersed company. Acquisitions could divert attention from other business concerns and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. In addition, we may lose key employees while integrating any new companies. We may pay for some acquisitions by issuing additional common stock, which would dilute current stockholders. We may also use cash to make acquisitions. We will be required to review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment in connection with past and future acquisitions, which may materially increase operating expenses if an impairment issue is identified. Our success depends on our retention of our executive officers, senior management and our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of executive officers, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers, senior managers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for these people is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or that we can attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. As we continue to grow our international operations, adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. As we expand our international operations, we could be exposed to significant risks of currency fluctuations. In some countries outside the U.S., we already offer our services in the applicable local currency, including but not limited to the Canadian Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the results of our operations, which in turn may materially adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell our services in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations, which might restrict or prohibit our conversion of other currencies into U.S. Dollars. We cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks. - 12 - - We are exposed to risk if we cannot maintain or adhere to our internal controls and procedures. We have established and continue to maintain, assess and update our internal controls and procedures regarding our business operations and financial reporting. Our internal controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding our business operations and financial reporting. However, because of the inherent limitations in this process, internal controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or misstatements. To the extent our internal controls are inadequate or not adhered to by our employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain internal controls and procedures in a timely manner, or without adequate compliance, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action or restatement of prior-period financial results could harm our business or investors’ confidence in j2 Global, and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related To Our Industry Our services may become subject to burdensome telecommunications regulation, which could increase our costs or restrict our service offerings. We believe that our services are “information services” under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and related precedent and therefore would not currently be subject to U.S. telecommunications services regulation. We provide our services through data transmissions over public telephone lines and other facilities provided by carriers. These transmissions are subject to foreign and domestic laws and regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations affect the availability of telephone numbers, the prices we pay for transmission services, the competition we face from telecommunications service providers and other aspects of our market. However, as messaging and communications services converge and as the services we offer expand, we may become subject to FCC or other regulatory agency regulation. Changes in the regulatory environment could decrease our revenues, increase our costs and restrict our service offerings. In many of our international locations, we are subject to regulation by the governmental authority. In the U.S., Congress and the FCC regulations subsidize portions of the telecommunications system out of the USF. Congress and the FCC are reviewing the way it collects USF payments from telecommunications carriers. Among the proposed changes being considered is imposing a flat fee per telephone number, which could have a material adverse effect on the provision of our non-paid services and could cause us to raise the price of our paid service. In August 2005, the FCC reclassified wireline broadband Internet access services (i.e., DSL) as information services, thereby allowing telephone companies to offer their lines to competing providers for what they decide is a “fair value” rather than at “low rates.” The decision enables incumbent local exchange carriers to charge higher rates for underlying broadband transmission service to competitive local exchange carriers that service some of our lines in various states. This could have an indirect impact on our profitability and operations. The TCPA and FCC rules implementing the TCPA, as amended by the Junk Fax Act, prohibit sending unsolicited facsimile advertisements to telephone fax machines. The FCC may take enforcement action against companies that send “junk faxes” and individuals also may have a private cause of action. Although entities that merely transmit facsimile messages on behalf of others are not liable for compliance with the prohibition on faxing unsolicited advertisements, the exemption from liability does not apply to fax transmitters that have a high degree of involvement or actual notice of an illegal use and have failed to take steps to prevent such transmissions. We take significant steps to ensure that our services are not used to transmit unsolicited faxes on a large scale, and we do not believe that we have a high degree of involvement or notice of the use of our service to broadcast junk faxes. However, because fax transmitters do not enjoy an absolute exemption from liability under the TCPA and related FCC rules, we could face FCC inquiry and enforcement or civil litigation, or private causes of action, if someone uses our service for such impermissible purposes. If this were to occur and we were to be held liable for someone’s use of our service for transmitting unsolicited faxes, the financial penalties could cause a material adverse effect on our operations. We are currently involved in litigation involving alleged violations of the TCPA with Protus IP Solutions, Inc. For more information about this lawsuit, see Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Legal Proceedings. Also in the U.S., the Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requires telecommunications carriers to be capable of performing wiretaps and recording other call identifying information. In September 2005, the FCC released an order defining telecommunications carriers that are subject to CALEA obligations as facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (“VoIP”) providers that interconnect with the public switched telephone network. As a result of this definition, we do not believe that j2 Global is subject to CALEA. However, if the category of service providers to which CALEA applies broadens to also include information services, that change may impact our operations. - 13 - - In addition, for calls placed to certain of our European telephone numbers we receive revenue share payments from the local telecommunications carrier. The per minute rates applicable to these "calling party pays" telephone numbers is subject to foreign laws and regulations. A reduction in the permitted per minute rates would reduce our revenues and could cause us to restrict our service offerings. For more information regarding telecommunications regulation that may affect our business, please see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Government Regulation. Our business could suffer if we cannot obtain or retain telephone numbers, are prohibited from obtaining local numbers or are limited to distributing local numbers to only certain customers. Our future success depends on our ability to procure large quantities of local telephone numbers in the U.S. and foreign countries in desirable locations at a reasonable cost and offer our services to our prospective customers without restrictions. Our ability to procure and distribute telephone numbers depends on factors such as applicable regulations, the practices of telecommunications carriers that provide telephone numbers, the cost of these telephone numbers and the level of demand for new telephone numbers. In addition, although we are the customer of record for all of our U.S. telephone numbers, from time to time, certain U.S. telephone carriers illegally inhibit our ability to port numbers or illegally port our telephone numbers away from us to other carriers. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, under certain circumstances, our customers are permitted to port their telephone numbers to another carrier. These factors could lead to increased cancellations by our customers and loss of our telephone number inventory. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth in or entry into foreign or domestic markets. For example, several years ago the FCC conditionally granted petitions by Connecticut and California to adopt specialized “unified messaging” area codes, but neither state has adopted such a code. Adoption of a specialized area code within a state or nation could harm our ability to complete in that state or nation if materially affecting our ability to acquire telephone numbers for our operations or making our services less attractive due to unavailability of telephone numbers with a local geographic identity. In addition, future growth in our subscriber base, together with growth in the subscriber bases of providers of other fax and/or voicemail to email and unified messaging services, has increased and may continue to increase the demand for large quantities of telephone numbers, which could lead to insufficient capacity and our inability to acquire sufficient telephone numbers to accommodate our future growth. For more information regarding telecommunications regulation that may affect our ability to obtain telephone numbers, please see Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Government Regulation. The value-added messaging and communications services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes and we may not be able to keep up. The value-added messaging and communications services industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the markets in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use or these new services may render our services and technologies obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. We may be unable to obtain access to new technologies on acceptable terms or at all, and may therefore be unable to offer services in a competitive manner. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to regulations relating to data privacy, security and retention. Many U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions have passed laws in the area of data privacy, security and retention. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of laws that conflict from country to country, changes in those laws, changes in the interpretations or interpretations that are not consistent with our current data protection practices. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs, increase service or delivery costs or otherwise harm our business. Failure to comply with these and other international data privacy, security and retention laws could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business. Further, any failure by us to protect our users’ privacy and data could result in a loss of user confidence in our services and ultimately in a loss of users, which could adversely affect our business. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. There are relatively few laws specifically directed towards online services. However, due to the increasing use of the Internet and online services, laws relating to the Internet (such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and - 14 - - services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security) are being debated around the world. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy apply to online businesses because many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the related issues. Enactment of new laws and regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations in a way that is adverse to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “CAN-SPAM Act”), which allows for penalties that run into the millions of dollars, requires commercial emails to include identifying information from the sender and a mechanism for the receiver to opt out of receiving future emails. We believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act. If we were ever found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we continue to expand our international activities, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. Non-U.S. laws regulating Internet companies may give different rights to consumers, content owners and users than comparable U.S. laws. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings relative to those in the U.S. Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to bans on our services. Increased cost of email transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on email for the delivery of our fax and voicemail messages. In addition, we derive some advertising revenues through the delivery of email messages to our free subscribers and we regularly communicate with our subscribers via email. We also offer email services through Electric Mail. If regulations or other changes in the industry lead to a charge associated with the sending or receiving of email messages, the cost of providing our services would increase and, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Risks Related To Our Stock In order to sustain our growth, we must continue to attract new paid subscribers at a greater rate and with at least an equal amount of revenues per subscriber than we lose existing paid subscribers. We may not be able to continue to grow or even sustain our current base of paid customers on a quarterly or annual basis. Our future success depends heavily on the continued growth of our paid user base. In order to sustain our growth we must continuously obtain an increasing number of paid users to replace the users who cancel their service. In addition, these new users must provide revenue levels per subscriber that are greater than or equal to the levels of our current customers or the customers they are replacing. We must also retain our existing customers while continuing to attract new ones at desirable costs. We cannot be certain that our continuous efforts to offer high quality services at attractive prices will be sufficient to retain our customer base or attract new customers at rates sufficient to offset customers who cancel their service. In addition, we believe that competition from companies providing similar or alternative services has caused, and may continue to cause, some of our customers or prospective customers to sign up with or to switch to our competitors’ services. Moreover, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, an overall reduction in our average revenue per subscriber due to a combination of a shift in the mix of products sold and reduced usage from customers. These factors may adversely affect our customer retention rates, the number of our new customer acquisitions, our average revenue per subscriber and/or subscriber usage levels. Any combination of a decline in our rate of new customer sign-ups, decline in usage rates of our customers, decline in average revenue per subscriber, decline in customer retention rates or decline in the size of our overall customer base may result in a decrease in our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future sales of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. As of February 16, 2010, substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock were available for resale, subject to volume and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates under SEC Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception of such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a price that we think is appropriate, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to - 15 - - acquire control of us. For example, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline. Our stock price and trading volumes have been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors, such as: • Assessments of the size of our subscriber base and our average revenue per subscriber, and comparisons of our results in these and other areas versus prior performance and that of our competitors; • Variations between our actual results and investor expectations; • Regulatory or competitive developments affecting our markets; • Investor perceptions of us and comparable public companies; • Conditions and trends in the communications, messaging and Internet-related industries; • Announcements of technological innovations and acquisitions; • Introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • Developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • Conditions and trends in the Internet and other technology industries; • Rumors, gossip or speculation published on public chat or bulletin boards; • General market conditions; and • Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology and other companies, particularly communications and Internet companies. These broad market fluctuations have previously resulted in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 