Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks we have highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Our operating results may fluctuate based on changes in marketplace conditions, especially customer and competitor consolidation, changes in customer preferences, including our customers' shift from carbonated soft drinks to non-carbonated beverages, and unfavorable weather conditions in the territories in which we operate. We face intense competition and are impacted by both customer and competitor consolidation. Our response to marketplace competition and retailer consolidations may result in lower than expected net pricing of our products. Our efforts to improve pricing may result in lower than expected volumes. Changes in net pricing and volume could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Health and wellness trends have decreased demand for sugared carbonated soft drinks. In response to changes in consumers' preferences, we have increased our emphasis on volume in non-carbonated beverages, including Aquafina, Tropicana juice drinks, Lipton Iced Tea, energy drinks, and diet carbonated beverages. Our business could be adversely impacted by our inability to offset the decline in sales of sugared carbonated soft drinks with sales of diet soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by customer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. Additionally, our business is highly seasonal and unfavorable weather conditions in our markets may impact sales volume. Sales volumes in our Central Europe operations tend to be more sensitive to weather conditions than our U.S. and Caribbean operations. An increase in the price of raw materials or a decrease in the availability of raw materials, including aluminum, resin, sweeteners and fuel, could adversely affect our financial condition. Unanticipated increases in ingredients, packaging materials and other raw material costs could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition if we are unable to pass along these higher costs to our customers. The inability of suppliers to deliver concentrate, raw materials, other ingredients and products to us could also adversely affect operating results. Energy prices, including the price of natural gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, are cost drivers for our business. Sustained high energy or commodity prices could negatively impact our operating results and demand for our products. The successful operation of our business depends upon our relationship with PepsiCo. We operate under various bottling agreements with PepsiCo that allow us to manufacture, package, distribute and sell carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Our inability to comply with the terms and conditions established in these agreements could result in termination of bottling agreements which would have a material adverse impact on our short-term and long-term business. Bottler incentives cover a variety of initiatives to support volume and market share growth. The level of support is negotiated regularly and can be increased or decreased at the discretion of PepsiCo. PepsiCo is under no obligation to continue past levels of support in the future. Material changes in expected levels of bottler incentive payments and other support arrangements could adversely affect future results of operations. PepsiCo provides procurement services for certain raw materials which result in rebates from vendors as a result of procurement volume. Cost of goods sold may be negatively impacted if we are unable to maintain targeted volume levels to secure such anticipated rebates or if PepsiCo no longer provides this service on our behalf. A negative change in our credit rating or the availability of capital could impact borrowing costs and financial results. We depend, in part, upon the issuance of unsecured debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for unsecured debt. These factors include the global capital market environment and outlook, our financial performance and outlook, and our credit ratings as determined primarily by rating agencies. It is possible that our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities and cash flow from operations, may not provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations and contractual commitments. The cost to remediate environmental concerns associated with previously owned subsidiaries could be materially different than our estimates. We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for the remediation of contaminated sites related to previously owned subsidiaries. We routinely assess our environmental exposure, including obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other responsible parties, including insurance providers. Due to the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminants on our former properties, the potential exists for remediation costs to be materially different from the costs we have estimated. We cannot predict the outcome of legal proceedings and an adverse determination could negatively impact our financial results. The nature of operations of previously owned subsidiaries exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to, among other things, personal injury and asbestos product liability claims. The nature of assets we currently 14 own and operate exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to, among other things, personal injury and property damage. The resolution of outstanding claims and assessments may be materially different than what we have estimated. Increases in the cost of compliance with applicable regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products, could negatively impact our financial results. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies of foreign countries. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could negatively impact our financial results through higher operating costs to achieve compliance. A strike or work stoppage by our union employees, which represent approximately one-third of our workforce, could disrupt our business. Approximately 35 percent of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire at various dates, including some in fiscal year 2006. Our inability to successfully renegotiate these agreements could cause work stoppages and interruptions, which may adversely impact our operating results. Because our international operations are conducted under multiple local currencies, our operating results experience foreign currency fluctuations. Our non-U.S. operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of certain locations are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. Changes in tax laws or in the tax status of our international operations could increase our tax liability and negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the U.S. and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates, legislative changes impacting statutory tax rates, including the impact on recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or material audit assessments. In addition, deferred tax balances reflect the benefit of net operating loss carryforwards, the realization of which will depend upon generating future taxable income. A change in the financial stability of our third-party distributors in Central Europe could disrupt our international business. In addition to our direct-to-store delivery system, we also utilize an alternative sales and distribution strategy in which we use third-party distributors in certain locations to reduce delivery costs and expand our points of distribution. Adverse changes to the financial condition of third-party distributors may inhibit our ability to distribute products and negatively impact volume and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 