ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information contained in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition to the other information included in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. eOn has experienced substantial losses and may continue to incur losses in the future. For the year ended July 31, 2009, eOn had a net loss of $339,000. eOn has incurred substantial losses since inception through July 31, 2009 resulting in an accumulated deficit of $48,856,000. eOn may not be able to achieve profitability from operations in the future. Downturns in the U.S. economy adversely affect operating results. Weakness in the U.S. economy has had a negative effect on our operating results. In an economic slowdown, we may also experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. Worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession could adversely affect our operating results. Further, we cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive, improvement in our operating results or cash flows. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline. Future operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • Delays or difficulties in introducing new products; • Increasing expenses without commensurate revenue increases; • Variations in the mix of products sold; • Variations in the timing or size of orders from our customers; • Delayed deliveries from suppliers and • Price decreases and other actions by our competitors. Our quarterly operating results are also likely to fluctuate due to seasonal factors. Some of our vertical markets, such as the U.S. government, educational and retail buyers, follow seasonal buying patterns and do not make substantial purchases during our fiscal quarters ending January 31. Thus, revenues in the quarters ending January 31 are often lower than in the previous quarters. Because of these and other factors, our operating results may not meet expectations in some future quarters, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our communications servers face intense competition from many companies that have targeted our markets. The competitive arena for our products is changing very rapidly and we face intense competition in our markets. Well-established companies and many emerging companies continue to develop products that improve communications, increase employee productivity and lower costs. While the industry remains fragmented, it is rapidly moving toward consolidation. A number of our current competitors have been recently acquired by 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements companies seeking to increase market share and their ability to compete. Additionally, robust open-source products have recently emerged in the market further lowering barriers to market entry and increasing competition. We expect competition to intensify as competitors develop new products, new competitors enter the market, and companies with complementary products enter into strategic alliances. Our current and potential competitors can be grouped into the following categories: • Contact center vendors, such as Avaya and Aspect; • Data communication equipment suppliers, such as Cisco Systems and Huawei; • VoIP telephone manufacturers, such as Polycom, Linksys, Snom, Grand Stream and Aastra • Hosted solution providers including 8 X 8, Five9, Echopass and Oracle. • Email management and web center software suppliers, such as eGain Communications, Kana Software, and LivePerson; • Voice communications equipment suppliers, such as Avaya, Mitel, NEC, Toshiba, and Siemens. • Customer relationship management (CRM) suppliers such as Oracle, and SalesForce.com. • Telephony product suppliers such as KGP Logistics, Telematrix, SciTec, Vtech, Aastra, and Panasonic Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name and brand recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. Therefore, our competitors may be able to respond to new or emerging technologies and changes faster than we can. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Actions by our competitors could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which would damage our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against these competitors. If we cannot maintain our indirect sales channels our ability to generate revenue would be harmed. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from dealers and value added resellers who have no obligation to sell our products. Therefore, dealers and value added resellers could discontinue selling our products at any time in favor of our competitors’ products or for any other reason. A reduction or loss of orders from our dealers and value added resellers could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The lengthy sales cycles of some of our products and the difficulty in predicting the timing of our sales may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The uncertainty of our sales cycle makes the timing of sales difficult to predict and may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our sales cycles generally vary from four to twelve months for our eQueue products and from one to six months for our Millennium voice switching platform. The purchase of our products may involve a significant commitment of our customers’ time, personnel, and financial and other resources. Also, it is difficult to predict the timing of indirect sales because we have little control over the selling activities of our dealers and value added resellers. We incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and spend significant management time before customers place orders with us, if at all. Revenues from a specific customer may not be recognized in the quarter in which we incur related sales and marketing expense, which may cause us to miss our revenues or earnings expectations. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our strategic relationships with third parties may not be successful. Our ability to develop our business, particularly in China, will depend on our ability to identify partnership opportunities and to enter into suitable commercial arrangements and to maintain close working relationships with these and other industry participants. Our success in this area will also depend on our ability to select and evaluate suitable projects, as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. To develop our business, we plan to use the business relationships of our management team in order to form strategic relationships. These relationships may take the form of joint ventures with other private parties and local government bodies and contractual arrangements with other companies. We may not be able to establish these strategic relationships, or, if established, may not be able to maintain these relationships, particularly if members of the management team leave us. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake to fulfill our obligations to these partners and/or maintain these relationships. If we do not successfully establish or maintain strategic relationships, we may not be able to achieve our business goals and that could adversely affect our anticipated results of operations and financial condition. We face many risks from expanding into foreign markets. The Company expects to increase sales to customers outside of the United States and establish additional distribution channels in Asia. However, foreign markets for our products may develop more slowly than currently anticipated. eOn may not be able to successfully establish international distribution channels, or may not be able to hire the additional personnel necessary to support such distribution channels. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Because our growth initiatives include expansion into foreign markets, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the United States, including: • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Difficulty in managing widespread sales and customer service operations and • Less effective protection of intellectual property. Our products must respond to rapidly changing market needs and integrate with changing protocols to remain competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, uncertain product life cycles and changing customer requirements. If we are not able to rapidly and efficiently develop new products and improve existing products to meet the changing needs of our customers and to adopt changing communications standards, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Key features of our products include integration with standard protocols, computer telephony integration and automatic call distribution applications and protocols, operating systems and databases. If our products cannot be integrated with third-party technologies or if they do not respond to changing market needs, we could be required to redesign our products. Redesigning any of our products may require significant resources and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Delayed deliveries of components from our single source suppliers or third-party manufacturers could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. We depend on sole source suppliers for certain components, digital signal processors and chip sets, and voice processor boards. Interruptions in the availability of components from our key suppliers could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which could damage our customer relationships and harm our operating results. Finding alternate suppliers or modifying product designs to use alternative components may cause delays and expenses. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more third-party components or subassemblies could reduce our gross profit. We depend upon our primary contract manufacturers Ayrshire Electronics, Innovative Circuits, and Clover Electronics. We may not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if any of these manufacturers fail to manufacture our products and deliver them to us on time. In addition, it could be difficult to engage other manufacturers to build our products. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed by any delivery delays. We buy many of our Cortelco products from various offshore suppliers with whom we have worked for several years. We are dependent on sole source suppliers for certain components and finished goods. Interruptions in the availability of these items from our key suppliers could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which could damage our customer relationships and harm our operating results. Finding alternate suppliers or modifying product designs to use alternative components could cause delays and result in additional expenses. We may be unable to hire and retain engineering and sales and marketing personnel necessary to execute our business strategy. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel. If we cannot attract, hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully develop, market and sell new products. Our business could be harmed if we lose principal members of our management team. We are highly dependent on the continued service of our management team. The loss of any key member of our management team may substantially disrupt our business and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, replacing management personnel could be costly and time consuming. We are effectively controlled by our principal stockholders and management, which may limit your ability to influence stockholder matters. As of September 30, 2009, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned 872,368 shares, or 30.5% of the outstanding shares of common stock. Thus, they effectively control us and direct our affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company and some transactions may be more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with those of other stockholders. We also conduct transactions with businesses in which our principal stockholders maintain interests. We believe that these transactions have been conducted on an arm’s length basis, but we cannot assure you that these transactions would have the same terms if conducted with unrelated third parties. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and any intellectual property litigation could be expensive and time consuming. Our business and competitive position could be harmed if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property. Although we have filed patent applications, we are not certain that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued will provide commercially significant protection to our technology. In addition, as we grow and gain brand recognition, our products are more likely to be subjected to infringement litigation. We could incur substantial costs and may have to divert management and technical resources in order to respond to, defend against, or bring claims related to our intellectual property rights. In addition, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These statutory and contractual arrangements may not provide sufficient protection to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. Any litigation could result in our expenditure of funds, management time and resources. Our products may have undetected faults leading to liability claims, which could harm our business. Our products may contain undetected faults or failures. Any failures of our products could result in significant losses to our customers, particularly in mission-critical applications. A failure could also result in product returns and the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, any failure of our products could result in claims against us. Our purchase agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in our purchase agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover all possible claims asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could be expensive to defend and consume management time and resources. Our charter contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage take-over attempts and may reduce our stock price. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors, even if such changes were favored by a majority of the stockholders. These include provisions that provide for a staggered board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. Future sales of shares may decrease our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales could occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 