Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements in this report and those made from time to time by us through our senior management are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements concerning the expected future revenues, earnings or financial results or concerning project plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only estimates of future results and we cannot assure you that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have never been profitable and may never become profitable. As of July 31, 2008, we had incurred losses since our incorporation resulting in an accumulated deficit of approximately $504.5 million. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, we had a net loss attributable to common shareholders of approximately $11.3 million. We may continue to incur losses in the future. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will achieve profitability or be capable of sustaining profitable operations. Our financing agreement with a syndicated group of lenders includes various covenants and restrictions that may negatively affect our liquidity and our ability to operate and manage our business. As of September 30, 2008, we owed approximately $111.7 million under a credit agreement with a syndicated group of lenders. The credit agreement: • restricts our ability to create, incur, assume, or permit to exist any additional indebtedness, excluding certain limited exemptions; • restricts our ability to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any lien on any of our assets, excluding certain limited exemptions; • restricts our ability to make investments, with certain limited exemptions; • requires that we meet financial covenants for leverage, fixed charges and capital expenditures; • restricts our ability to enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation, excluding certain limited exemptions; • restricts our ability to sell assets or purchase or otherwise acquire the property of any person, excluding certain limited exemptions; • restricts our ability to authorize, declare or pay dividends, excluding certain limited exemptions; 13 Table of Contents • restricts our ability to enter into any transaction with any affiliate except on terms and conditions that are at least as favorable to us as those that could reasonably be obtained in a comparable arm’s-length transaction with a person who is not an affiliate; and • restricts our ability to amend our organizational documents. If we breach the credit agreement, a default could result. A default, if not waived, could result in, among other things, our not being able to borrow additional amounts under the credit agreement. In addition, all or a portion of our outstanding amounts may become due and payable on an accelerated basis, which would adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to manage our business. The maturity date of the Term Loan is June 8, 2013 and the revolving credit facility terminates on June 8, 2012. Interest on the Term Loan is payable in arrears on the first business day of August, November, February and May for ABR Loans, and the last day of the chosen interest period (which period can be one, two, three, six, nine or twelve months) or every three months, if the chosen interest period is greater than three months, for LIBOR Loans. The Term Loan will amortize on the first day of each fiscal quarter (commencing on August 1, 2007) in equal quarterly installments over such period in the aggregate amounts as set forth below: Year Percentage of Term Loan 1 1.0 % 2 1.0 % 3 1.0 % 4 1.0 % 5 1.0 % 6 95.0 % In addition, the credit agreement exposes us to interest rate fluctuations which could significantly increase the interest we pay the lenders. We are required, under the credit agreement, to maintain interest rate protection that shall result in at least 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the consolidated indebtedness of the Company and its subsidiaries, other than the revolving loans under the credit agreement, being subject to a fixed or maximum interest rate. We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing in order to satisfy any mandatory redemption requirement of our Preferred Stock. Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has redemption rights which could require us to redeem any or all of the issued and outstanding Preferred Stock. We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing in order to satisfy any mandatory redemption requirement, which financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our financing agreement with a syndicated group of lenders restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which could negatively affect our ability to fulfill our obligations to the holders of the Preferred Stock. Disruption in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business. As has been widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to operate our business, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which can then lead to challenges in the operation of our business. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Atlantic Investors, LLC, Unicorn Worldwide Holdings Limited and Madison Technology LLC may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and have significant influence over corporate decisions. Unicorn Worldwide Holdings Limited and Madison Technology LLC, Atlantic Investors, LLC’s two managing members, together with Atlantic Investors, LLC owned approximately 31% of our outstanding capital stock as of July 31, 2008 on a fully diluted basis. As of July 31, 2008, Atlantic Investors, LLC’s ownership alone was approximately 27% on a fully diluted basis. Atlantic Investors, LLC, Unicorn Worldwide Holdings Limited and Madison Technology LLC, together have significant power in the election of our Board of Directors. Regardless of how our other stockholders may vote, Atlantic Investors, LLC, Unicorn Worldwide Holdings and Madison Technology acting together may have the ability to determine whether to engage in a merger, consolidation or sale of our assets and any other significant corporate transaction. Members of our management group also have significant interests in Atlantic Investors, LLC, which may create conflicts of interest. Some of the members of our management group also serve as members of the management group of Atlantic Investors, LLC and its affiliates. Specifically, Andrew Ruhan, our Chairman of the Board, holds a 10% equity interest in Unicorn Worldwide Holdings Limited, a managing member of Atlantic Investors, LLC. Arthur P. Becker, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, is the managing member of Madison Technology LLC, a managing member of Atlantic Investors, LLC. As a result, these NaviSite officers and directors may face potential conflicts of interest with each other and with our stockholders. They may be presented with situations in their capacity as our officers or directors that conflict with their fiduciary obligations to Atlantic Investors, LLC, which in turn may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our common stockholders may suffer dilution in the future upon exercise of outstanding convertible securities or the issuance of additional securities in potential future acquisitions or financings. In connection with a financing agreement with Silver Point Finance, we issued warrants to SPCP Group, LLC and SPCP Group III LLC, two affiliates of Silver Point Finance, to purchase an aggregate of 3,930,136 shares of our common stock. If the warrants are exercised, Silver Point Finance may obtain a significant equity interest in NaviSite and other stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. As of September 30, 2008, SPCP Group, LLC and SPCP Group III LLC have exercised the warrants in part to acquire 2,730,005 shares of our Common Stock and warrants for the purchase of 1,200,131 shares of our Common Stock remain outstanding. In connection with our acquisition of netASPx, Inc. we issued 3,125,000 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to the stockholders of netASPx, Inc. Additional shares of the Preferred Stock have been and will be issued to the former shareholders of netASPx, Inc. as in-kind dividends that accrue on the outstanding Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of common stock at a price of $8.00 per share by the holders after the earlier of (i) March 15, 2009 and (ii) any default date. No default has occurred and the Preferred Stock is not currently convertible into shares of our common stock. If converted, the shares of Preferred Stock convert into the number of shares of common stock determined by dividing the redemption price per share of the Preferred Stock by the conversion price applicable to such shares, which, as of October 31, 2008 would result in one share of common stock being issued upon the conversion of one share of Preferred Stock. The conversion price and the redemption price are subject to adjustment. However, in no event shall the number of shares of common stock to be issued upon the conversion of the Preferred Stock equal or exceed 6,692,856, (which represents 19.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on September 10, 2007) without the approval of our stockholders in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Our stockholders will also experience dilution to the extent that additional shares of our common stock are issued in potential future acquisitions or financings. Acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business or distractions of our management due to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations, and these integrations may not proceed as planned. Since December 2002, we have acquired ClearBlue Technologies Management, Inc. (accounted for as an “as if pooling”), Avasta, Inc., Conxion Corporation, selected assets of Interliant, Inc., all of the shares of ten wholly-owned subsidiaries of ClearBlue Technologies, Inc. (accounted for as an “as if pooling”), substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Surebridge, Inc., substantially all of the assets of Alabanza, LLC and Hosting Ventures, LLC, and iCommerce, Inc. and all of the issued and outstanding stock of Jupiter Hosting, Inc., and netASPx, Inc. We intend to 15 Table of Contents continue to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, technologies, products and services. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems and risks, including: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations and personnel with the existing businesses; • difficulty maintaining relationships with important third parties, including those relating to marketing alliances and providing preferred partner status and favorable pricing; • diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the businesses; • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; • inability to retain and motivate management and other key personnel of the acquired businesses; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; • potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; • potential issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition with rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our common stock, or which may have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders; • the need to incur additional debt or use cash; and • the requirement to record potentially significant additional future operating costs for the amortization of intangible assets. As a result of these problems and risks, businesses we acquire may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated, and acquired products, services or technologies might not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems and we cannot assure you that the acquisitions will be successfully identified and completed or that, if acquisitions are completed, the acquired businesses, products, services or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other harmful effects on our business. In addition, our limited operating history with our current structure resulting from recent acquisitions makes it very difficult for us to evaluate or predict our ability to, among other things, retain customers, generate and sustain a revenue base sufficient to meet our operating expenses, and achieve and sustain profitability. A failure to meet customer specifications or expectations could result in lost revenues, increased expenses, negative publicity, claims for damages and harm to our reputation and cause demand for our services to decline. Our agreements with customers require us to meet specified service levels for the services we provide. In addition, our customers may have additional expectations about our services. Any failure to meet customers’ specifications or expectations could result in: • delayed or lost revenue; • requirements to provide additional services to a customer at reduced charges or no charge; • negative publicity about us, which could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • claims by customers for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, which may not be covered by insurance policies and which may not be limited by contractual terms of our engagement. Our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially impaired if we are unable to deploy new infrastructure systems and applications or if new infrastructure systems and applications deployed by us prove to be unreliable, defective or incompatible. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of hosting and application management services in the future. If any newly introduced infrastructure systems and applications suffer from reliability, quality or compatibility problems, market acceptance of our services could be greatly hindered and our ability to attract new customers could be significantly reduced. We cannot assure you that new applications deployed by us will be free from any 16 Table of Contents reliability, quality or compatibility problems. If we incur increased costs or are unable, for technical or other reasons, to host and manage new infrastructure systems and applications or enhancements of existing applications, our ability to successfully market our services could be substantially limited. Any interruptions in, or degradation of, our private transit Internet connections could result in the loss of customers or hinder our ability to attract new customers. Our customers rely on our ability to move their digital content as efficiently as possible to the people accessing their websites and infrastructure systems and applications. We utilize our direct private transit Internet connections to major network providers, such as Level 3 Communications Inc. and Global Crossing, as a means of avoiding congestion and resulting performance degradation at public Internet exchange points. We rely on these telecommunications network suppliers to maintain the operational integrity of their networks so that our private transit Internet connections operate effectively. If our private transit Internet connections are interrupted or degraded, we may face claims by, or lose, customers, and our reputation in the industry may be harmed, which may cause demand for our services to decline. If we are unable to maintain existing and develop additional relationships with software vendors, the sales and marketing of our service offerings may be unsuccessful. We believe that to penetrate the market for managed IT services we must maintain existing and develop additional relationships with industry-leading software vendors. We license or lease select software applications from software vendors, including IBM, Microsoft Corp., and Oracle Corp. Our relationships with Microsoft and Oracle are critical to the operations and success of our business. The loss of our ability to continue to obtain, utilize or depend on any of these applications or relationships could substantially weaken our ability to provide services to our customers. It may also require us to obtain substitute software applications that may be of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost. In addition, because we generally license applications on a non-exclusive basis, our competitors may license and utilize the same software applications. In fact, many of the companies with which we have strategic relationships currently have, or could enter into, similar license agreements with our competitors or prospective competitors. We cannot assure you that software applications will continue to be available to us from software vendors on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to identify and license software applications that meet our targeted criteria for new application introductions, we may have to discontinue or delay introduction of services relating to these applications. Our network infrastructure could fail which would impair our ability to provide guaranteed levels of service and could result in significant operating losses. To provide our customers with guaranteed levels of service, we must operate our network infrastructure 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. We must, therefore, protect our network infrastructure, equipment and customer files against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of a natural disaster, equipment failure or other unanticipated problem at one or more of our data centers could result in interruptions in the services we provide to our customers. We cannot assure you that our disaster recovery plan will address all, or even most, of the problems we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problem. We have experienced service interruptions in the past, and any future service interruptions could: • require us to spend substantial amounts of money to replace equipment or facilities; • entitle customers to claim service credits or seek damages for losses under our service level guarantees; • cause customers to seek alternate providers; or • impede our ability to attract new customers, retain current customers or enter into additional strategic relationships. Our dependence on third parties increases the risk that we will not be able to meet our customers’ needs for software, systems and services on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could result in the loss of customers. Our services and infrastructure rely on products and services of third-party providers. We purchase key components of our infrastructure, including networking equipment, from a limited number of suppliers, such as HP, Sun Microsystems, IBM, Cisco Systems, Inc., Microsoft, and Oracle. We cannot assure you that we will not experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of third-party software, systems and services. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary hardware or parts on hand 17 Table of Contents or that our suppliers will be able to provide them in a timely manner in the event of equipment failure. Our inability to timely obtain and continue to maintain the necessary hardware or parts could result in sustained equipment failure and a loss of revenue due to customer loss or claims for service credits under our service level guarantees. We could be subject to increased operating costs, as well as claims, litigation or other potential liability, in connection with risks associated with Internet security and the security of our systems. A significant barrier to the growth of e-commerce and communications over the Internet has been the need for secure transmission of confidential information. Several of our infrastructure systems and application services use encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the protections necessary to ensure secure transmission of confidential information. We also rely on security systems designed by third parties and the personnel in our network operations centers to secure those data centers. Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional actions and other disruptions could result in increased operating costs. For example, we may incur additional significant costs to protect against these interruptions and the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these interruptions or breaches. If a third party were able to misappropriate a consumer’s personal or proprietary information, including credit card information, during the use of an application solution provided by us, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liability. Third-party infringement claims against our technology suppliers, customers or us could result in disruptions in service, the loss of customers or costly and time-consuming litigation. We license or lease most technologies used in the infrastructure systems and application services that we offer. Our technology suppliers may become subject to third-party infringement or other claims and assertions, which could result in their inability or unwillingness to continue to license their technologies to us. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims against us in the future or that these claims will not be successful. Any infringement claim as to our technologies or services, regardless of its merit, could result in delays in service, installation or upgrades, the loss of customers or costly and time-consuming litigation. We may be subject to legal claims in connection with the information disseminated through our network, which could divert management’s attention and require us to expend significant financial resources. We may face liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature of the materials disseminated through our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that content distributed by some of our customers may be regulated or banned. In these and other instances, we may be required to engage in protracted and expensive litigation that could have the effect of diverting management’s attention from our business and require us to expend significant financial resources. Our general liability insurance may not cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. In addition, on a limited number of occasions in the past, businesses, organizations and individuals have sent unsolicited commercial e-mails from servers hosted at our facilities to a number of people, typically to advertise products or services. This practice, known as “spamming,” can lead to statutory liability as well as complaints against service providers that enable these activities, particularly where recipients view the materials received as offensive. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, letters from recipients of information transmitted by our customers objecting to the transmission. Although we prohibit our customers by contract from spamming, we cannot assure you that our customers will not engage in this practice, which could subject us to claims for damages. Concerns relating to privacy and protection of customer and job seeker data on our America’s Job Exchange website could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers and job seekers from using our products and services. In fiscal year 2008 we launched America’s Job Exchange, a successor to America’s Job Bank. Concerns about our practices for America’s Job Exchange with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, which in turn could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of customer and job seeker confidence in us, which could adversely affect our business. Laws related to data protection continue to evolve. It is possible that 18 Table of Contents certain jurisdictions may enact laws or regulations that impact our ability to offer our products and services and/or result in reduced traffic or contract terminations in those jurisdictions, which could harm our business. Unauthorized access, phishing schemes and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of customer and job seeker information stored in our systems, and may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing customers and job seekers to refrain from doing business with us. If we fail to attract or retain key officers, management and technical personnel, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or to continue to provide services and technical support to our customers could be adversely affected and we may not be successful in attracting new customers. We believe that attracting, training, retaining and motivating technical and managerial personnel, including individuals with significant levels of infrastructure systems and application expertise, is a critical component of the future success of our business. Qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future and competition for these personnel is intense. The departure of any of our executive officers, particularly Arthur P. Becker, our Chief Executive Officer and President, or core members of our sales and marketing teams or technical service personnel, would have negative ramifications on our customer relations and operations. The departure of our executive officers could adversely affect the stability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide the guaranteed service levels our customers expect. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. In addition, we do not carry life insurance on any of our personnel. Over the past three years, we have had reductions-in-force and departures of several members of senior management due to redundancies and restructurings resulting from the consolidation of our acquired companies. In the event of future reductions or departures of employees, our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, or to continue to provide services to our customers or attract new customers, could be adversely affected. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have previously varied, and may continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect our operating results include the following: • a reduction of market demand and/or acceptance of our services; • our ability to develop, market and introduce new services on a timely basis; • the length of the sales cycle for our services; • the timing and size of sales of our services, which depends on the budgets of our customers; • downward price adjustments by our competitors; • changes in the mix of services provided by our competitors; • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet or our hosting operations; • our ability to meet any increased technological demands of our customers; and • the amount and timing of costs related to our marketing efforts and service introductions. Due to the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance. Our operating results for any particular quarter may fall short of our expectations or those of stockholders or securities analysts. In this event, the trading price of our common stock would likely fall. If we are unsuccessful in pending and potential litigation matters, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are currently involved in various pending and potential legal proceedings, including a class action lawsuit related to our initial public offering and a class action lawsuit related to an outage experienced by certain acquired customers of Alabanza. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in any of these matters, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of cash to the other parties. The amount and timing of any of these payments could adversely affect our financial condition. 19 Table of Contents If the markets for outsourced information technology infrastructure and applications, Internet commerce and communication decline, there may be insufficient demand for our services and, as a result, our business strategy and objectives may fail. The increased use of the Internet for retrieving, sharing and transferring information among businesses and consumers is developing, and the market for the purchase of products and services over the Internet is still relatively new and emerging. Our industry has experienced periods of rapid growth, followed by a sharp decline in demand for products and services, which led to the failure in the last few years of many companies focused on developing Internet-related businesses. If acceptance and growth of the Internet as a medium for commerce and communication declines, our business strategy and objectives may fail because there may not be sufficient market demand for our managed IT services. If we do not respond to rapid changes in the technology sector, we will lose customers. The markets for the technology-related services we offer are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels and changing customer demands. We may not be able to adequately adapt our services or to acquire new services that can compete successfully. In addition, we may not be able to establish and maintain effective distribution channels. We risk losing customers to our competitors if we are unable to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and is likely to consolidate, and we may lack the financial and other resources, expertise or capability necessary to capture increased market share or maintain our market share. We compete in the managed IT services market. This market is rapidly evolving, highly competitive and likely to be characterized by over-capacity and industry consolidation. Our competitors may consolidate with one another or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, enabling them to more effectively compete with us. Many participants in this market have suffered significantly in the last several years. We believe that participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve a significant presence to compete effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that would impede our ability to compete successfully in the managed IT services market. Further, our business is not as developed as that of many of our competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and market resources, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry. Many of our competitors may be able to: • develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more rapidly; • adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; or • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. We may lack the financial and other resources, expertise or capability necessary to maintain or capture increased market share in this environment in the future. Because of these competitive factors and due to our comparatively small size and our lack of financial resources, we may be unable to successfully compete in the managed IT services market. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors could harm our business in international markets. We currently operate two data centers in the United Kingdom. Revenue from our foreign operations accounted for approximately 7.6% of our total revenue during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008. In fiscal year 2006, we expanded our operations to India, which has broadened our customer service support. Although we expect to focus most of our growth efforts in the United States, we may enter into joint ventures or outsourcing agreements with third parties, acquire complementary businesses or operations, or establish and maintain new operations outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability and the possibility of hostilities among countries or terrorism; 20 Table of Contents • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates or imposition of restrictive currency controls; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; • employment laws and practices in foreign countries; • laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States; and • significant changes in immigration policies or difficulties in obtaining required immigration approvals. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and consequently, our business. We may become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties that could substantially harm our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. It is likely that laws and regulations directly applicable to the Internet or to hosting and managed application service providers may be adopted. These laws may cover a variety of issues, including user privacy and the pricing, characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to commerce over the Internet could substantially impair the growth of our business or expose us to unanticipated liabilities. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet and hosting and managed application service providers is uncertain. These existing laws could expose us to substantial liability if they are found to be applicable to our business. For example, we provide services over the Internet in many states in the United States and elsewhere and facilitate the activities of our customers in these jurisdictions. As a result, we may be required to qualify to do business, be subject to taxation or be subject to other laws and regulations in these jurisdictions, even if we do not have a physical presence, employees or property in those states. The price of our common stock has been volatile, and may continue to experience wide fluctuations. Since January 2007, our common stock has closed as low as $0.38 per share and as high as $11.09 per share. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations due to the risk factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this report. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may cause an investor in our common stock to lose some or all of his investment. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. Nasdaq’s continued listing standards for our common stock require, among other things, that (i) we maintain a closing bid price for our common stock of at least $1.00, and (ii) we maintain: (A) stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million; (B) market value of listed securities of $35 million; or (C) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. Our common stock recently has closed with a bid price of less than $1.00. In addition, we do not satisfy the stockholders’ equity, market value of listed securities or net income requirements. Failure to satisfy the Nasdaq continued listing standards could lead to a delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq. However, on October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced that it had temporarily suspended its minimum bid price and market value of public float requirements for continued listing through January 16, 2009. Nasdaq adopted this measure to help companies remain listed in view of the extraordinary market conditions following the recent turmoil in the global economy and stock markets. Under the temporary relief provided by the new rules, companies will not be cited for bid price or market value of public float deficiencies. Nevertheless, NaviSite’s failure to satisfy other continued listing requirements could lead to the receipt of a deficiency notice from Nasdaq and ultimately to a delisting from trading of our common stock. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, among other things, this could result in a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with Nasdaq and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities, greater difficulty in obtaining financing and breaches of certain contractual obligations. 21 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents may discourage or prevent a takeover. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition or merger in which we are acquired or a transaction that changes our Board of Directors. These provisions: • authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for the election of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 