Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors Affecting Our Business The following factors describe some of the assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could adversely affect our business or that could otherwise result in changes that differ materially from our expectations. In addition to the specific factors mentioned in this report, we may also be affected by other factors that affect businesses generally such as global or regional changes in economic or business conditions, acts of war, terrorism and natural disasters. Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect our business. Recent market and economic conditions have led to legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. These legislative and regulatory initiatives will affect not only us, but also our competitors and certain of our clients. These changes could eventually have an effect on our revenue and profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that new legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations adopted and to be adopted by the SEC and CFTC introduce a comprehensive regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps (both of which are defined terms). We are required to register two of our subsidiaries as swap dealers with the CFTC by January 30, 2013 and may register one or more subsidiaries as security-based swap dealers with the SEC. The new laws and regulations will subject certain swaps and security-based swaps to clearing and exchange trading requirements, and will subject swap dealers and security-based swap dealers to significant new burdens, including (i) capital and margin requirements, (ii) reporting, recordkeeping and internal business conduct requirements, (iii) external business conduct requirements in dealings with swap counterparties (which are particularly onerous when the counterparty is a special entity such as a federal, state, or municipal entity, an ERISA plan, a government employee benefit plan or an endowment), and (iv) large trader position reporting and certain position limit requirements. The final rules under Title VII, including those rules that have already been adopted, for both cleared and uncleared swap transactions will impose increased capital and margin requirements on our registered entities and require additional operational and compliance costs and resources that will likely affect our business. Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (Volcker Rule) and section 716 of the Dodd-Frank Act (swaps push-out rule) limit proprietary trading of certain securities and swaps by banking entities such as banks, bank holding companies and similar institutions. Although we are not a banking entity and are not otherwise subject to these rules, some of our clients and many of our counterparties are affiliated with bank holding companies and will be subject to these restrictions. These sections of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations that are adopted to implement them could negatively affect the swaps and securities markets by reducing their depth and liquidity 7 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) and thereby affect pricing in these markets. Other negative effects could result from an expansive extraterritorial application of the Dodd-Frank Act in general or the Volcker Rule in particular and/or insufficient international coordination with respect to adoption of rules for derivatives in other jurisdictions. We will not know the exact impact that these changes in the markets will have on our business until after the final rules are implemented. The Dodd-Frank Act, in addressing systemic risks to the financial system, charges the Federal Reserve with drafting enhanced regulatory requirements for systemically important bank holding companies and certain other nonbank financial companies designated as systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The enhanced requirements proposed by the Federal Reserve include capital requirements, liquidity requirements, limits on credit exposure concentrations and risk management requirements. We do not believe that we will be deemed to be a systemically important nonbank financial company under the new legislation and therefore will not be directly impacted. However, there will be an indirect impact to us as the new regulations will most likely effect our competitors, counterparties and certain of our clients. Extensive international regulation of our business limits our activities, and, if we violate these regulations, we may be subject to significant penalties. The financial services industry is subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in every country in which we operate. Firms that engage in securities and derivatives trading, commodity futures brokerage, wealth and asset management and investment banking must comply with the laws, rules and regulations imposed by the governing country, state, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory bodies with governing authority over such activities. Such laws, rules and regulations cover all aspects of the financial services business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Each of our regulators supervises our business activities to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction. In addition, if there are instances in which our regulators question our compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, they may investigate the facts and circumstances to determine whether we have complied. At any moment in time, we may be subject to one or more such investigation or similar reviews. At this time, all such investigations, and similar reviews are insignificant in scope and immaterial to us. However, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the operations of our businesses will not violate such laws, rules, and regulations and that related investigations and similar reviews could result in adverse regulatory requirements, regulatory enforcement actions and/or fines. Additional legislation, changes in rules, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, or the entering into businesses that subject us to new rules and regulations may directly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the UK, our primary regulator, the UK Financial Services Authority (“FSA”), has adopted a “twin peaks” model with a clear internal separation of conduct of business and prudential regulation. This move mirrors the UK government’s intention to transfer prudential supervision of the more systemically important institutions from the FSA to the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”), a subsidiary of The Bank of England, and for the FSA (to be renamed the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”)) to focus on consumer protection and market regulation as well as prudential supervision of all other regulated financial institutions. It is currently expected that this transfer will take place in April 2013. The Financial Services Bill, which will formally establish the PRA and FCA, is currently making its way through Parliament. Our regulated UK subsidiaries, Jefferies International Limited, Jefferies Investment Management Limited and Jefferies Bache Limited, are maintaining a close dialogue with the FSA as it implements these changes. 8 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) We continue to monitor the impact that the Basel Accords will have on us. The latest update issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010, known as Basel III, has recommended strengthening capital and liquidity rules. In response, the European Commission is in the process of implementing amendments to its Capital Requirements Directive known as CRD IV. Changes under CRD IV are expected to start to come into effect in late 2013 or early 2014 and we continue to monitor the potential impact on our UK subsidiaries. The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) came into force in August 2012 and will be effective in the UK in early 2013. In common with the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, these rules are intended, amongt other things, to reduce counterparty risk by requiring that all standardized over-the-counter derivatives are cleared through a central counterparty. We are reviewing EMIR and the related technical standards published by the European Securities and Markets Authority to assess the impact on us. We are also reviewing the draft texts of the amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation to assess the impact both pieces of legislation are likely to have on our business when they come into force in 2013 or 2014. Amongt other things, the legislation will require certain over-the-counter derivatives to be traded on exchanges and other electronic trading platforms. We could be adversely affected if our merger with Leucadia National Corporation is not consummated. On November 11, 2012, we and certain merger-related subsidiaries agreed to a series of merger transactions whereby we would become a wholly owned subsidiary of Leucadia. These transactions, which are expected to close during the first quarter of 2013, are subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by both Leucadia’s and our shareholders. As part of the transactions, we will be converted from a corporation to a limited liability company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Leucadia will not assume or guarantee any of Jefferies’ outstanding debt securities, but Jefferies’ 3.875% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2029 will become convertible into common shares of Leucadia following the merger transactions. If not redeemed, Jefferies’ 3.25% Series A Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock will be exchanged for a comparable series of convertible preferred shares of Leucadia. Jefferies will retain a credit rating separate from Leucadia’s. In addition to approval by both Leucadia and our shareholders, the closing of the transactions is subject to a number of other conditions that make the completion and timing of the completion of the transactions uncertain. If the transactions are not completed on a timely basis, or at all, our businesses may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the transactions, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • We will be required to pay our costs relating to the transactions, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the transactions are completed. • We may be required to pay a termination fee plus out-of-pocket fees and expenses incurred by Leucadia. • Time and resources committed by our management and employees to matters relating to the transactions could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities. • The market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the transactions will be completed. • If the merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to enter into a merger agreement on terms equivalent to or more attractive than the terms that Leucadia has agreed to in connection with the transactions. 9 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) Our merger with Leucadia National Corporation could be affected by certain litigation. Seven putative class action lawsuits have been filed in New York and Delaware concerning the merger transactions whereby Jefferies Group, Inc. would become a wholly owned subsidiary of Leucadia. The class actions, filed on behalf of our shareholders, name as defendants Jefferies Group, Inc., the members of our board of directors, Leucadia and, in certain of the actions, certain merger-related subsidiaries. The actions allege that the directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the merger transactions by engaging in a flawed process and agreeing to sell Jefferies Group, Inc., for inadequate consideration pursuant to an agreement that contains improper deal protection terms. The actions allege that Jefferies Group, Inc. and Leucadia aided and abetted the directors’ breach of fiduciary duties and seek, among other things, an injunction barring the proposed transactions. We are unable to predict the outcome of this litigation, including whether it will affect the closing of the merger with Leucadia National Corporation. Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could result in decreased revenues, losses or other adverse consequences. As a global securities and investment banking firm, global or regional changes in the financial markets or economic conditions could adversely affect our business in many ways, including the following: • A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. • Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and could therefore be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions. • Adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions on our inventory positions. • Adverse changes in the market could also lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees and investment income from managed funds and losses on our own capital invested in managed funds. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. • Limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred during 2008, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. • New or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or on balance sheet items may adversely affect our profits. • Should one of our competitors fail, our securities prices and our revenue could be negatively impacted based upon negative market sentiment causing customers to cease doing business with us and our lenders to cease loaning us money, which could adversely affect our business, funding and liquidity. Unfounded allegations about us could result in extreme price volatility and price declines in our securities and loss of revenue, clients, and employees. In November 2011, we became the subject of unfounded allegations and false rumors, including among others those relating to our exposure to European sovereign debt. Despite the fact that we were able to dispel 10 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) such rumors, both our stock and bond prices were significantly impacted. Our common stock suffered a 20% sell-off in minutes and, consequently, its trading was temporarily suspended, and our debt-securities prices suffered not only extreme volatility but also record high yields. In addition, our operations were impacted as some clients either ceased doing business or temporarily slowed down the level of business they do, thereby decreasing our revenue stream. Although we were able to reverse the negative impact of such unfounded allegations and false rumors, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future and our potential failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies, including a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, during 2011 and 2012, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states could have defaulted on their debt obligations negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the European Union’s financial support programs and the possibility that EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. A credit-rating agency downgrade could significantly impact our business. Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is important to our business and financial condition. On October 16, 2012 Moody’s announced that it downgraded our credit rating from Baa2 to Baa3. We intend to access the capital markets and issue debt securities from time to time; and a decrease in our credit rating would not only increase our borrowing costs, but could also decrease demand for our debt securities and make a successful financing more difficult. In addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivative contract arrangements and certain other trading arrangements, we may be required to provide additional collateral to counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. Such a downgrade could also negatively impact our stock and bond prices. There can be no assurance that our credit ratings will not be further downgraded by Moody’s or downgraded by other rating agencies. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. A considerable portion of our revenues is derived from trading in which we act as principal. We may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of fixed income, high yield, international, convertible, and equity securities and futures and commodities for our own account. In any period, we may experience losses on our inventory positions as a result of price fluctuations, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity. From time to time, we may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry, or securities from issuers located in a particular country or region. In general, because our inventory is marked to market on a daily basis, any adverse price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions that if not successful, could result in losses. 11 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) Increased competition may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and staffing. All aspects of our business are intensely competitive. We compete directly with a number of bank holding companies and commercial banks, other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms and other financial institutions. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. We believe that the principal factors affecting competition involve market focus, reputation, the abilities of professional personnel, the ability to execute the transaction, relative price of the service and products being offered, bundling of products and services and the quality of service. Increased competition or an adverse change in our competitive position could lead to a reduction of business and therefore a reduction of revenues and profits. Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees. A competitor may be successful in hiring away an employee or group of employees, which may result in our losing business formerly serviced by such employee or employees. Competition can also raise our costs of hiring and retaining the employees we need to effectively operate our business. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. If any of our financial, accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and manage our exposure to risk. In addition, despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. 12 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) Asset management revenue is subject to variability based on market and economic factors and the amount of assets under management. Asset management revenue includes management and performance fees from funds and accounts managed by us, management and performance fees from related party managed funds and accounts and investment income (loss) from our investments in these funds, accounts and related party managed funds. These revenues are dependent upon the amount of assets under management and the performance of the funds. If these funds do not perform as well as our asset management clients expect, our clients may withdraw their assets from these funds, which would reduce our revenues. Some of our revenues are derived from our own investments in these funds. We experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to the nature of our asset management business and therefore may fail to meet revenue expectations. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business. We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions and strategic partnering. As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that our financial controls, the level and knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and our growth. The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, as we acquire new businesses and introduce new products, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems into ours, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations. A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our international operations subject us to numerous risks which could adversely impact our business in many ways. Our business and operations are expanding globally. Wherever we operate, we are subject to legal, regulatory, political, economic and other inherent risks. The laws and regulations applicable to the securities and investment banking industries differ in each country. Our inability to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in a particular country could have a significant and negative effect on our business and prospects in that country as well as in other countries. A political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. Legal liability may harm our business. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, and in the normal course of business, we have been named as a defendant or codefendant in lawsuits involving primarily claims for damages. The risks associated with potential legal liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The expansion of our business, including increases in the number and size of investment banking transactions and our expansion into new areas impose greater risks of liability. In addition, unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability to us. Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. Our business is subject to significant credit risk. In the normal course of our businesses, we are involved in the execution, settlement and financing of various customer and principal securities and derivative transactions. These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or 13 Table of Contents JEFFERIES GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES — (Continued) delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance. Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, we still face the risks associated with changes in the market value of the collateral through settlement date or during the time when margin is extended and the risk of counterparty nonperformance to the extent collateral has not been secured or the counterparty defaults before collateral or margin can be adjusted. We may also incur credit risk in our derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to our counterparties. We seek to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. We may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or return collateral pledged. In the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. However, there can be no assurances that our risk controls will be successful. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a number of derivative transactions that require us to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 