ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Ariba and our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We Compete in New and Rapidly Evolving Markets, and Our Spend Management Solutions Are At a Relatively Early Stage of Development. These Factors Make Evaluation of Our Future Prospects Difficult. Spend management software applications and services are at a relatively early stage of development. For example, in September 2001, we introduced the majority of our initial Ariba Spend Management solutions and after our merger with FreeMarkets in 2004, we introduced several new products integrating functionality acquired in the merger. We also introduced on-demand versions of a number of our software products throughout fiscal year 2006 and we plan to introduce additional on-demand versions of our products in fiscal year 2007. These new and planned products may be more challenging to implement than our more established products, as we have less experience deploying these applications. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. As we adjust to evolving customer requirements and competitive pressures, we may be required to further reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in developing and marketing such product and service offerings, or we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the development and marketing of such product and service offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Economic Conditions and Reduced Information Technology Spending May Adversely Impact Our Business. Our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise software and services and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. Weak economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business in a number of ways including longer sales cycles, lower average selling prices and reduced bookings and revenues. Our Success Depends on Market Acceptance of Standalone Spend Management Solutions. Our success depends on widespread customer acceptance of standalone spend management solutions from vendors like Ariba, rather than solutions from enterprise resource planning (ERP) software vendors and others that are part of a broader enterprise application solution. For example, ERP vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, could bundle spend management modules with their existing applications and offer these modules at little or no cost. If our products and services do not achieve continued customer acceptance, our business will be seriously harmed. We Have a History of Losses and May Incur Significant Additional Losses in the Future. We have a significant accumulated deficit as of September 30, 2006, resulting in large part from cumulative charges for the amortization and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and the following: • adverse economic conditions; • the failure of our standalone spend management solutions business to mature as a separate market category; • declines in average selling prices of our products and services resulting from competition or the introduction of newer products that generally have lower list prices than our more established products and other factors; 14 Table of Contents • failure to successfully grow our sales channels; • increased reliance on on-demand delivery of software services that result in lower near-term revenues from customer deployments; • failure to maintain control over costs; • increased restructuring charges resulting from the failure to sublease excess facilities at anticipated levels and rates; • ongoing charges related to the amortization of intangibles from our merger with FreeMarkets in July 2004; and • charges incurred in connection with any future restructurings. Our Quarterly Operating Results Are Volatile, Difficult to Predict and May Be Unreliable as Indicators of Future Performance Trends. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to vary significantly in the future. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may fail to achieve forecasts of quarterly and annual revenues and operating results. Our quarterly operating results have varied or may vary depending on a number of factors, including the following: Risks Related to Revenues: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and average selling price for our products and services; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • fluctuations in the number of relatively larger orders for our products and services; • increased dependence on relatively smaller orders from a larger number of customers; • dependence on the number of new customer contracts in the current quarter, including follow-on contracts from existing customers, rather than on contracts entered into in prior quarters; • dependence on generating revenues from new revenue sources; • delays in recognizing revenue from multiple element arrangements; • ability to renew ratable revenue streams, including subscription software, software maintenance and subscription services, without substantial declines from prior arrangements, • changes in the mix of types of customer agreements and related timing of revenue recognition; and • changes in our product line such as our release of on-demand versions of our software products throughout fiscal year 2006 and our planned release of additional on-demand versions in fiscal year 2007. Risks Related to Expenses • our overall ability to control costs, including managing reductions in expense levels through restructuring and severance payments; • the level of expenditures relating to ongoing legal proceedings; • costs associated with changes in our pricing policies and business model, including the transition to increased reliance on on-demand and managed solutions offerings and the implementation of programs to generate revenue from new sources; 15 Table of Contents • costs associated with the amortization of stock-based compensation expense; and • the failure to adjust our workforce to changes in the level of our operations. Our On-Demand Strategy Carries a Number of Risks Which May Be Harmful to Our Business. In November 2005, we announced a new strategy to offer on-demand versions of our software products. In part as a result of this strategy shift, we believe that in the future customers will increasingly move away from purchasing a perpetual license for our software in favor of purchasing the right to use the software for a specified period of time through a term license or a subscription. If an increasing portion of customers choose term or subscription licenses or application hosting services, we may experience a deferral of revenues and cash payments from customers. In addition, our on-demand strategy carries a number of additional risks, including the following: • we may experience a delay in recognizing revenue due to the combination of multiple element arrangements, longer subscription terms and an increase in the time required to implement some on-demand services; • as a result of increased demands on our engineering organization to develop on-demand versions of our products while supporting and enhancing our existing products, we may not introduce on-demand versions of our products or enhancements to our products on a timely and cost-effective basis or at appropriate quality levels; • we may fail to achieve our targeted pricing; • we expect to experience a decrease in the demand for our implementation services to the extent fewer customers license our software products as installed applications; • we may not successfully achieve market penetration in our newly targeted markets, including target customers we characterize as middle-market companies based on their revenues; • we may have a short-term and/or long-term decrease in total revenues as a result of the transition; and • we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our on-demand operations. Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed if We Fail to Retain Our Key Personnel. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management, product development and sales personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these personnel could seriously harm our business. Our ability to retain key employees may be harder given that we have substantial operations in several geographic regions, including Sunnyvale, California and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In addition, uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could result in reduced confidence in our financial performance which could cause fluctuations in our stock price and result in further turnover of our employees. Our License Revenues in Any Quarter May Fluctuate Because We Depend on a Relatively Small Number of Relatively Large Orders. Our quarterly license revenues are especially subject to fluctuation because they depend on relatively large orders for our products and related services. For example, between three and seven individual customers represented at least 50% of our license revenues for each quarter in each of our last two fiscal years. In addition, many of these relatively large orders are realized at the end of the quarter. As a result of this concentration and timing, our quarterly operating results, including average selling prices, may fluctuate significantly if we are unable to complete one or more substantial sales in any given quarter. Our Revenues in Any Quarter May Fluctuate Significantly Because Our Sales Cycles Can Be Long and Unpredictable. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable. The purchase of our products is often discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. It frequently takes 16 Table of Contents several months to finalize a sale and requires approval at a number of management levels within the customer organization. The implementation and deployment of our products requires a significant commitment of resources by our customers and third parties and/or professional services organizations. Revenues in Any Quarter May Vary to the Extent Recognition of Revenue is Deferred When Contracts Are Signed. As a Result, Revenues in Any Quarter May Be Difficult to Predict and are an Unreliable Indicator of Future Performance Trends. We frequently enter into contracts where we recognize only a portion of the total revenue under the contract in the quarter in which we enter into the contract. For example, we may recognize revenue on a ratable basis over the life of the contract or enter into contracts where the recognition of revenue is conditioned upon delivery of future product or service elements. The portion of revenues recognized on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, and revenues in any given quarter are a function both of contracts signed in such quarter and contracts signed in prior quarters. License revenues in recent and future quarters may be more dependent on revenues from new customer contracts entered into in those quarters rather than from the amortization or recognition of license revenues deferred in prior quarters. Revenues From Our Ariba Sourcing Solution Could Be Negatively Affected if Customers Elect to Purchase Our Self-Service Products Rather Than Our Technology-Enhanced Services. Revenue from our full-service sourcing services offering has been declining as existing customers renew contracts for lower dollar volumes and/or purchase our lower-priced self-service technologies (such as Ariba Sourcing). We have several large multi-year contracts for these technology-enhanced services, some of which will come up for renewal during fiscal year 2007 and beyond. If these customers do not renew their contracts upon expiration, or if they elect to use one of our lower-cost self-service solutions, our future revenues may decrease. A Decline in Revenues May Have a Disproportionate Impact on Operating Results and Require Further Reductions in Our Operating Expense Levels. Because our expense levels are relatively fixed in the near term and are based in part on expectations of our future revenues, any decline in our revenues to a level that is below our expectations would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. We Are Subject to Evolving and Expensive Corporate Governance Regulations and Requirements. Our Failure to Adequately Adhere to These Requirements or the Failure or Circumvention of Our Controls and Procedures Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Because we are a publicly-traded company, we are subject to certain federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these evolving regulations is costly and requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent fraud or other errors in the future. Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it impossible for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system are met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect fraud or other errors could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We Sometimes Experience Long Implementation Cycles, Which May Increase Our Operating Costs and Delay Recognition of Revenues. Many of our products are complex applications that are generally deployed with many users. Implementation of these applications by enterprises is complex, time consuming and expensive. Long 17 Table of Contents implementation cycles may delay the recognition of revenue as some of our customers engage us to perform system implementation services, which can defer revenue recognition for the related software license revenue. In addition, when we experience long implementation cycles, we may incur costs at a higher level than anticipated, which may reduce the anticipated profitability of a given implementation. If a Sufficient Number of Suppliers Do Not Join and Maintain Their Participation In the Ariba Supplier Network, It May Not Attract a Sufficient Number of Buyers and Other Sellers Required to Make the Network Successful. In order to provide buyers on the Ariba Supplier Network an organized method for accessing goods and services, we rely on suppliers to maintain web-based product catalogs, indexing services and other content aggregation tools. Any failure of suppliers to join the Ariba Supplier Network in sufficient numbers, or of existing suppliers to maintain their participation in the Ariba Supplier Network, would make the network less attractive to buyers and consequently other suppliers. We implemented a program to begin charging select suppliers for access to the Ariba Supplier Network, which could make it less attractive for suppliers to join or maintain their participation in the network. Our inability to access and index these catalogs and services provided by suppliers would result in our customers having fewer products and services available to them through our solutions, which would adversely affect the perceived usefulness of the Ariba Supplier Network. We Could Be Subject to Potential Claims Related to the Ariba Supplier Network. We warrant that the Ariba Supplier Network will achieve specified performance levels to allow our customers to conduct their transactions. To the extent we fail to meet warranted performance levels, we could be obligated to provide refunds of maintenance fees or credits toward future maintenance fees. Further, to the extent that a customer incurs significant financial hardship due to the failure of the Ariba Supplier Network to perform as warranted, we could be exposed to additional liability claims. Failure to Establish and Maintain Strategic Relationships with Third Parties Could Seriously Harm Our Business. We have established strategic relationships with a number of other companies. These companies are entitled to resell our products, to host our products for their customers, and/or to implement our products within their customers’ organizations. We cannot be assured that any existing or future resellers or hosting or implementation partners will perform to our expectations. For example, in the past we have not realized the anticipated benefits from strategic relationships with a number of resellers. If our current or future strategic partners do not perform to expectations, or if they experience financial difficulties that impair their operating capabilities, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We Face Intense Competition. If We Are Unable to Compete Successfully, Our Business Will Be Seriously Harmed. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological change. This competition could result in further price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. We compete with several major enterprise software companies, including SAP and Oracle. We also compete with several service providers, including McKinsey & Company and A.T. Kearney. In addition, we compete with smaller niche providers of sourcing or procurement products and services, including Emptoris, Ketera Technologies, Perfect Commerce, Procuri and Verticalnet. Because spend management is a relatively new software category, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies if this market continues to develop and expand. For example, third parties that currently help implement Ariba Buyer and our other products could begin to market products and services that compete with our products and services. These third parties, which include IBM, Accenture, Capgemini, Deloitte Consulting, BearingPoint and Unisys, are generally not subject to confidentiality or non-compete agreements that restrict such competitive behavior. 18 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors, such as ERP software vendors including Oracle and SAP, have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than us. These vendors could also introduce spend management solutions that are included as part of broader enterprise application solutions at little or no cost. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our industry. In the past, we have lost potential customers to competitors for various reasons, including lower prices and incentives not matched by us. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly increase their market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations. As a result, we may not be able to successfully compete against our current and future competitors. Any Future Acquisitions Will Be Subject to a Number of Risks. Any future acquisitions will be subject to a number of risks, including: • the diversion of management time and resources; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • unanticipated expenses related to integration of the acquired companies; • difficulties in implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and • impairment of goodwill and other assets acquired. If We Fail to Develop Products and Services on a Timely and Cost-Effective Basis, or If Our Products or Services Contain Defects, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. In developing new products and services, we may: • fail to develop, introduce and market products in a timely or cost-effective manner; • find that our products and services are obsolete, noncompetitive or have shorter life cycles than expected; • fail to develop new products and services that adequately meet customer requirements or achieve market acceptance; or • develop products that contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. If new releases of our products or potential new products are delayed, we could experience a delay or loss of revenues and customer dissatisfaction. Pending Litigation Could Seriously Harm Our Business. There can be no assurance that existing or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, or that the amount of any accrued losses is sufficient for any actual losses that may be incurred. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 Table of Contents We May Incur Additional Restructuring Charges that Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We have recorded significant restructuring charges in the past relating to the abandonment of numerous leased facilities, including most notably portions of our Sunnyvale, California headquarters. Moreover, we have from time to time revised our assumptions and expectations regarding lease abandonment costs, resulting in additional charges. In addition, we have assumed abandoned leases and related costs as part of our merger with FreeMarkets. We review these estimates each reporting period, and to the extent that our assumptions change, the ultimate restructuring expenses for these abandoned facilities could vary significantly from current estimates. For example, a reduction in assumed market lease rates of $0.25 per square foot per month for the remaining term of the leases, with all other assumptions remaining the same, would increase the estimated lease abandonment loss on the vacated portions of our Sunnyvale, California headquarters and our other principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania by $6.2 million as of September 30, 2006. Additional lease abandonment costs, resulting from the abandonment of additional facilities or changes in estimates and expectations about facilities already abandoned, could adversely affect our operating results. We May Incur Additional Goodwill Impairment Charges that Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We review goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired and that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period, and decreases in our market capitalization below the recorded amount of our net assets for a sustained period. Our stock price is highly volatile and has experienced significant declines in the past. In June 2005, based on a combination of factors, particularly: (1) our market capitalization at that time; (2) our then current and projected operating results; (3) significant trends in the enterprise software industry; and (4) our decision to reduce our workforce and eliminate excess facility space, we concluded there were sufficient indicators to require us to assess whether any portion of our recorded goodwill balance was impaired. We determined that our estimated fair value was less than the recorded amount of our net assets, thereby necessitating that we assess our recorded goodwill for impairment. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in measuring the amount of goodwill impairment, we made a hypothetical allocation of our estimated fair value to the tangible and intangible assets (other than goodwill) and liabilities. Based on this allocation, we concluded that goodwill was impaired in the amount of $247.8 million. The remaining balance of goodwill is $326.1 million as of September 30, 2006. While the goodwill impairment test performed as of this date did not indicate any further impairment, there can be no assurance that future goodwill impairments will not occur. Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated dramatically. There is a significant risk that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the future in response to any of the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements that our revenues or income are below analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or industry performance; • general economic slowdowns; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; 20 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the loss of a major customer or our failure to complete significant license transactions; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of software and Internet-related companies. We Are at Risk of Further Securities Class Action Litigation Due to Our Stock Price Volatility. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We have experienced significant volatility in the price of our stock over the past two years. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. If the Protection of Our Intellectual Property Is Inadequate, Our Competitors May Gain Access to Our Technology, and We May Lose Customers. We depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary rights of our technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. We have 20 patents issued in the United States, but may not develop other proprietary products that are patentable. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. This is particularly true because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of the United States and, in the case of our solutions, because the validity, enforceability and type of protection of proprietary rights in these technologies are uncertain and evolving. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry and the Internet industry regarding intellectual property rights. For example, in the three months ended March 31, 2005 we paid $37.0 million to ePlus to settle a lawsuit alleging that three of our products, Ariba Buyer, Ariba Marketplace and Ariba Category Procurement, infringed patents held by a third party. In addition, we have recently been sued by Sky Technologies, Inc. (“Sky”) for alleged patent infringement. See “Legal Proceedings.” It is possible that in the future other third parties may claim that we or our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. We expect that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions will increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that we or our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. We must now, and may in the future have to, license or otherwise obtain access to intellectual property of third parties. For example, we are currently dependent on developers’ licenses from enterprise resource planning, database, human resource and other systems software vendors in order to ensure compliance of our products with their management systems. In addition, we rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our software products to perform key functions. For example, we license integration software from TIBCO for Ariba Buyer. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we will face delays in releases of our software until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Our Business Is Susceptible to Numerous Risks Associated with International Operations. International operations have represented a significant portion of our revenues over the past three years. We have committed and expect to continue to commit significant resources to our international sales and marketing activities. We are subject to a number of risks associated with these activities. These risks generally include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse foreign tax consequences, including withholding in connection with the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • political instability. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. We hedge risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. We utilize forward contracts to hedge trade and intercompany receivables and payables. There can be no assurance that our hedging strategy will be successful or that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Anti-takeover Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law Could Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company and May Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other rights of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 