ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Ariba and our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. The Economic Downturn Adversely Impacted Our Business and May Continue to Adversely Impact Our Business Beyond Our Expectations. Our business has been adversely affected by the credit crises and uncertain worldwide economic conditions. Although our business commerce solutions help companies reduce the cost of their goods and services and may therefore be perceived as even more strategic during adverse economic conditions, we experienced a challenging selling environment during the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. Adverse economic conditions could, among other things, result in reduced revenues, increased operating losses and reduced cash flows from operations, greater than anticipated uncollectible accounts receivables and increased allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, impairment of financial and non-financial assets and increased restructuring charges. Our Business Is Susceptible to Numerous Risks Associated with International Operations. International operations have represented a significant portion of our revenues over the past three years. We have committed and expect to continue to commit significant resources to our international sales and marketing activities. We are subject to a number of risks associated with these activities. These risks generally include: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse foreign tax consequences, including withholding in connection with the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and, • political instability. The risks will be enhanced if we complete our recently announced acquisition of Quadrem’s business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Events.” A substantial majority of Quadrem’s revenues are generated outside the United States and it has offices in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, North America and South America. For international sales and expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Since the majority of our non-U.S. sales are priced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, a strengthening of the dollar may reduce the level of reported revenues. If such events continue to occur, our net revenues could be seriously impacted, since a significant portion of our net revenues are derived from international operations. We have partially hedged risks associated with foreign currency transactions in order to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on earnings. We utilize forward contracts to hedge trade and intercompany receivables and payables. There can be no assurance that our hedging strategy will be successful or that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, in the year ended September 30, 2009 we had an increase in realized and unrealized foreign currency transaction losses of $6.7 million on accounts receivable billed from Ariba, Inc. in 15 Table of Contents foreign currencies to customers headquartered in foreign countries and realized losses on foreign denominated cash balances maintained in the United States of America, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening against the Euro, the British Pound, the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. Our Success Depends on Market Acceptance of Standalone Business Commerce Solutions. Our success depends on widespread customer acceptance of standalone business commerce solutions from vendors like us, rather than solutions from ERP software vendors and others that are part of a broader enterprise application solution. For example, ERP vendors, such as Oracle and SAP, could bundle business commerce modules with their existing applications and offer these modules at little or no cost. If our products and services do not achieve continued customer acceptance, our business will be seriously harmed. We Have a History of Losses and May Incur Significant Additional Losses in the Future. We have a significant accumulated deficit as of September 30, 2010, resulting in large part from cumulative charges for the amortization and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and the following: • declines in average selling prices of our products and services resulting from adverse economic conditions, competition and other factors; • failure to successfully grow our sales channels; • failure to maintain control over costs; • charges incurred in connection with any future restructurings or acquisitions; and • additional impairment charges as a result of the decline in value and credit quality of our investments in auction rate securities (“ARS”) or changes in the accounting treatment of these securities. Our Quarterly Operating Results Are Volatile, Difficult to Predict and May Be Unreliable as Indicators of Future Performance Trends. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely continue to vary significantly in the future. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may fail to achieve forecasts of quarterly and annual revenues and operating results. Our quarterly operating results have varied or may vary depending on a number of factors, including the following: Risks Related to Revenues: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and average selling price for our products and services; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • fluctuations in the number of relatively larger orders for our products and services; • increased dependence on relatively smaller orders from a larger number of customers; • dependence on generating revenues from new revenue sources; • ability to renew ratable revenue streams, including subscription software, software maintenance and subscription services, without substantial declines from prior arrangements; and, • changes in the mix of types of customer agreements and related timing of revenue recognition. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Expenses: • our overall ability to control costs, including managing reductions in expense levels through restructuring and severance payments; • costs associated with changes in our pricing policies and business model; • costs associated with the amortization of stock-based compensation expense; and • the failure to adjust our workforce to changes in the level of our operations. Our On-Demand Strategy Carries a Number of Risks Which May Be Harmful to Our Business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from subscriptions to our on-demand applications. We have experienced and may continue to experience a deferral of revenues and cash payments from customers. Additional risks with the on-demand model include the following: • as a result of increased demands on our engineering organization to develop multi-tenant versions of our products while supporting and enhancing our existing products, we may not introduce multi-tenant versions of our products or enhancements to our products on a timely and cost-effective basis or at appropriate quality levels; • we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a decrease in the demand for our implementation services to the extent fewer customers license our software products as installed applications; • we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a decrease in the demand for our maintenance services, which is related to our CD business, as many new customers are purchasing our on-demand products and a small number of legacy CD customers are converting to on-demand products; • because we recognize revenue from subscription to our on-demand services over the term of the agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results; • we may not successfully achieve market penetration in our newly targeted markets, including target customers we characterize as middle-market companies; • we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our on-demand operations; and, • product quality issues may affect forecasted adoptions and renewals. We May Incur Additional Restructuring Charges that Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We have recorded significant restructuring charges relating to the abandonment of numerous leased facilities, including most notably portions of our Sunnyvale, California headquarters. For example, in the year ended September 30, 2010, we revised our estimates for sublease commencement dates based on the remaining terms of the lease in Sunnyvale, California and continued soft market conditions in the Northern California real estate market, resulting in a charge of $8.6 million. Additional lease abandonment costs, resulting from the abandonment of additional facilities could adversely affect our operating results. Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed If We Fail to Retain Our Key Personnel. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management, product development and sales personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these personnel could seriously harm our business. Our ability to retain key employees may be harder given that we have substantial operations in several geographic regions, including Sunnyvale, California, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Atlanta, Georgia and Bangalore, India. In addition, uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could result in reduced confidence in our financial performance which could cause fluctuations in our stock price and result in further turnover of our employees. 17 Table of Contents Our Revenues In Any Quarter May Fluctuate Because Our Sales Cycles Can Be Long and Unpredictable. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable. The purchase of our products is often discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources by a customer. It frequently takes several months to finalize a sale and requires approval at a number of management levels within the customer organization. We have experienced longer sales cycles as a result of the current economic downturn and more levels of required customer management approvals. The implementation and deployment of our products requires a significant commitment of resources by our customers and third parties and/or professional services organizations. As a result of the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle, our revenues in any quarter may fluctuate. A Decline in Revenues May Have a Disproportionate Impact on Operating Results and Require Further Reductions in Our Operating Expense Levels. Because our expense levels are relatively fixed in the near term and are based in part on expectations of our future revenues, any decline in our revenues to a level that is below our expectations would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results for that quarter. We Are Subject to Evolving and Expensive Corporate Governance Regulations and Requirements. Our Failure to Adequately Adhere to These Requirements or the Failure or Circumvention of Our Controls and Procedures Could Seriously Harm Our Business and Results of Operations. Because we are a publicly-traded company, we are subject to certain federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Compliance with existing regulations is costly and requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent fraud or other errors in the future. Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it impossible for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system are met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect fraud or other errors could seriously harm our business and results of operations. The recently adopted Dodd-Frank Act will subject us to significant additional executive compensation and corporate governance requirements, many of which have yet to be implemented by the SEC. Compliance with their requirements may be costly and adversely affect our business. We Sometimes Experience Long Implementation Cycles, Which May Increase Our Operating Costs. Many of our products are complex applications that are generally deployed with many users. Implementation of these applications by enterprises is complex, time consuming and expensive. When we experience long implementation cycles, we may incur costs at a higher level than anticipated, which may reduce the anticipated profitability of a given implementation. If a Sufficient Number of Suppliers Do Not Join and Maintain Their Participation In the Ariba Supplier Network, It May Not Attract a Sufficient Number of Buyers and Other Sellers Required to Make the Network Successful. In order to provide buyers on the Ariba Supplier Network an organized method for accessing goods and services, we rely on suppliers to maintain web-based product catalogs, indexing services and other content aggregation tools. Any failure of suppliers to join the Ariba Supplier Network in sufficient numbers, or of existing suppliers to maintain their participation in the Ariba Supplier Network as a result of increase access charges or otherwise, would make the network less attractive to buyers and consequently other suppliers. Our 18 Table of Contents inability to access and index these catalogs and services provided by suppliers would result in our customers having fewer products and services available to them through our solutions, which would adversely affect the perceived usefulness of the Ariba Supplier Network. We Could Be Subject to Potential Claims Related to Our On-Demand Solutions, As Well As the Ariba Supplier Network. We warrant to our customers that our on-demand solutions and the Ariba Supplier Network will achieve specified performance levels to allow our customers to conduct their transactions. To the extent we fail to meet warranted performance levels, we could be obligated to provide refunds or credits for future use or maintenance. Further, to the extent that a customer incurs significant financial hardship due to the failure of our on-demand solutions or the Ariba Supplier Network to perform as specified, we could be exposed to additional liability claims. Failure to Establish and Maintain Strategic Relationships with Third Parties Could Seriously Harm Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We have established strategic relationships with a number of other companies. These companies are entitled to resell our products, to host our products for their customers, and/or to implement our products within their customers’ organizations. We cannot be assured that any existing or future resellers or hosting or implementation partners will perform to our expectations. For example, in the past we have not realized the anticipated benefits from strategic relationships with a number of resellers. If our current or future strategic partners do not perform to expectations, or if they experience financial difficulties that impair their operating capabilities, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. We Face Intense Competition. If We Are Unable to Compete Successfully, Our Business Will Be Seriously Harmed. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological change. This competition could result in further price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. We compete with several major enterprise software companies, including SAP AG and Oracle. We also compete with several service providers, including A.T. Kearney and McKinsey & Company. In addition, we compete with smaller specialty vendors or smaller niche providers of sourcing or procurement products and services, including Emptoris, BravoSolution, Zycus, American Express S2S, Perfect Commerce, cc-Hubwoo, Ketera Technologies, Coupa and Iasta. Because business commerce is a relatively new software and solutions category, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies if this market continues to develop and expand. For example, third parties that currently help implement Ariba Buyer and our other products could begin to market products and services that compete with our products and services. These third parties, which include IBM, Accenture, Capgemini, Deloitte Consulting, BearingPoint and Unisys, are generally not subject to confidentiality or non-compete agreements that restrict such competitive behavior. Many of our current and potential competitors, such as ERP software vendors including Oracle and SAP, have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than us. These vendors could also introduce business commerce solutions that are included as part of broader enterprise application solutions at little or no cost to their customers. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our industry. In the past, we have lost potential customers to competitors for various reasons, including lower prices and incentives not matched by us. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs. Accordingly, 19 Table of Contents it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly increase their market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidations. The industry has experienced consolidation with both larger and smaller competitors acquiring companies to broaden their offerings or increase scale. As a result, we may not be able to successfully compete against our current and future competitors. Any Current or Future Acquisitions or our Recently Announced Disposition Will Be Subject to a Number of Risks. Any current or future acquisitions or disposition will subject us to a number of risks, including: • the diversion of management time and resources; • the difficulty of assimilating/transitioning the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • unanticipated expenses related to integration of the acquired companies; • difficulties in implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the inability to sell disposed assets; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and • impairment of goodwill and other assets acquired or divested. Our sale of certain of our sourcing services to Accenture on November 15, 2010 could adversely impact our business because, among other reasons, many of our existing customers will continue to require these services and our solution offering may be less attractive to potential customers without these services. See “Management’s Discussion of Analysis and Financial Condition—Recent Events.” The Benefits We Anticipate From Acquiring Quadrem May Not Be Realized. We entered into an agreement to acquire Quadrem with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits including, among other things, accelerating our penetration into the international market segments, enhancing our customer base and recognizing efficiencies. We may not realize any of these benefits or may not realize them as rapidly, or to the extent, anticipated by our management and certain financial or industry analysts. Quadrem’s contribution to our financial results may not meet the current expectations of our management for a number of reasons, including integration risks, and could dilute our profits beyond the current expectations of our management. Potential liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of Quadrem also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. If We Fail to Develop Products and Services on a Timely and Cost-Effective Basis, or If Our Products or Services Contain Defects, Our Business Could Be Seriously Harmed. In developing new products and services, we may: • fail to develop, introduce and market products in a timely or cost-effective manner; • find that our products and services are obsolete, noncompetitive or have shorter life cycles than expected; 20 Table of Contents • fail to develop new products and services that adequately meet customer requirements or achieve market acceptance; or • develop products that contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. If new releases of our products or potential new products are delayed, we could experience a delay or loss of revenues and customer dissatisfaction. Litigation Could Seriously Harm Our Business. There can be no assurance that future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, or that the amount of any accrued losses is sufficient for any actual losses that may be incurred. See “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K and Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We May Be Required to Record Additional Impairment Charges in Future Quarters as a Result of the Decline in Value of Our Investments in Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”). We hold a variety of interest bearing ARS that represent investments in pools of assets, including student loans, commercial paper and credit derivative products. These ARS investments are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. The continuing uncertainties in the credit markets have affected all of our holdings in ARS investments and auctions for our investments in these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. Contractual maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2016 to 2047 with principal distributions occurring on certain securities prior to maturity. The valuation of our ARS, along with the rest of our investment portfolio, is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. Although we currently not soliciting offers to sell these ARS investments prior to recovery nor are aware of any factors that would make such a sale of the ARS investments more likely than not, if the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or to record all current and any future unrealized losses as a charge in our statement of operations in future quarters. See Note 5—Fair Value of Our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the potential adverse impact of our investments in ARS. We May Incur Goodwill Impairment Charges that Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We review goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired and that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period, and decreases in our market capitalization below the recorded amount of our net assets for a sustained period. Our stock price is highly volatile. The balance of goodwill is $406.5 million as of September 30, 2010 and, there can be no assurance that future goodwill impairments will not occur. 21 Table of Contents We May Fail to Achieve Our Financial Forecasts Due to Inaccurate Sales Forecasts and Other Factors. Our revenues are difficult to predict and, as a result, our quarterly financial results can fluctuate substantially. We estimate quarterly revenues in part based on our sales pipeline, which is an estimate of potential customers, their stage of the sales process, the potential amount of their sales contracts and the likelihood that we will convert them into actual customers during the quarter. To the extent that any of these estimates are inaccurate, our actual revenues may be different than our forecast revenues. Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile and the Market Price of Our Common Stock May Decrease in the Future. Our stock price has fluctuated dramatically. There is a significant risk that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the future in response to any of the following factors, including those discussed in other risk factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements that our revenues or income are below analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or industry performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the loss of a major customer or our failure to complete significant subscription transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. We Are at Risk of Further Securities Class Action Litigation Due to Our Stock Price Volatility. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We have experienced significant volatility in the price of our stock over the past years. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. If the Protection of Our Intellectual Property Is Inadequate, Our Competitors May Gain Access to Our Technology, and We May Lose Customers. We depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary rights of our technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of contractual provisions, including customer licenses that restrict use of our products, confidentiality agreements and procedures, and patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. We have 47 patents issued in the United States of America, but may not develop other proprietary products that are patentable. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any patents issued to us. This is particularly true because some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of the United States of America and, in the case of our solutions, because the validity, enforceability and type of protection of proprietary rights in these technologies are uncertain and evolving. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, we may lose customers. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry and the Internet industry regarding intellectual property rights. It is possible that in the future, third parties may claim that we or our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. We expect that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions will increasingly be subject to infringement claims, and third parties may claim that we or our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property. Any 22 Table of Contents claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time from developing our business, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may need to commence litigation or take other actions to protect our intellectual property rights. These lawsuits and other potential litigation and actions brought by us could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We May be Sued by Third Parties for Alleged Infringement of Their Proprietary Rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. Even though we have policies against our unauthorized use of third party intellectual property rights and we take precautions not to use such intellectual property without the proper licenses, from time to time, third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. In the future, we may receive claims that our application suite and underlying technology infringe or violate the claimant’s intellectual property rights. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or application suite. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify products, or refund fees, which could further exhaust our resources. In addition, we may pay substantial settlement costs to resolve claims or litigation, whether or not legitimately or successfully asserted against us, which could include royalty payments in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify products, or refund fees, which could further exhaust our resources. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We Rely on Third-Party Technology for Our Solutions which Might Not be Available to Us in the Future. We must now, and may in the future have to, license or otherwise obtain access to intellectual property of third parties. For example, we are currently dependent on developers’ licenses from ERP, database, human resource and other systems software vendors in order to ensure compliance of our products with their management systems. In addition, we rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our software products to perform key functions. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we will face delays in releases of our software until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. These delays, if they occur, could adversely affect our business. If Our Security Measures Fail or Unauthorized Access to Customer Data Is Otherwise Obtained, Our Solutions May Be Perceived As Not Being Secure, Customers May Curtail or Stop Using Our Solutions, And We May Incur Significant Liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ confidential information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. 23 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential revenues and existing customers. Further, because our products transmit data and information belonging to our customers, many customers and prospects require us to meet specific security standards or to maintain security certifications with respect to our products and operations. Given the complexity of our business and the costs and efforts required to meet the high standards to maintain these security certifications, there is no guarantee that we can achieve or maintain any such certifications or standards. If we fail to meet the standards for these security certifications, it could negatively impact our ability to attract new or keep existing customers and it could seriously harm our business. Because our application suite collects, stores and reports personal information of buyers and suppliers, privacy concerns could result in liability to us or inhibit sales of our application suite. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of third-party information. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that apply to us. Because many of the features of our application suite collect, store and report on information about buyers and suppliers, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Business Disruptions Could Affect Our Operating Results. A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Defects or Disruptions in Our Solutions Could Diminish Demand for Our Solutions and Subject Us to Substantial Liability. Since our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect to terminate or not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment to us, or make warranty or other claims against us. In addition, it could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our solutions are unreliable. Anti-takeover Provisions in Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law Could Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company and May Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and other rights of our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 