Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below. This section does not describe all risks that may be applied to our company, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. 12 Table of Contents We may experience rapid growth in the future that could strain our limited resources. Our failure to effectively manage such growth could adversely affect our ability to earn profits. We have several offices located throughout the southeastern United States and Texas that are thinly staffed. In some of these offices, we share administrative support staff with other companies. If we fail to anticipate growth in our lending business or are otherwise unable to provide adequate staffing in any of the markets in which we operate, our credit quality, underwriting functions and risk management could be adversely affected, resulting in a reduced ability to earn profits. Failure to implement our business strategy or to manage our growth effectively may adversely affect our financial performance. Our business strategy is dependent upon our ability to offer secure, convenient, cost-effective and comprehensive financial services on the Internet and to community banks throughout the southeastern United States and Texas. The growth and expansion of our business model may place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Successful implementation of our business strategy will require continued growth of the Internet banking market and correspondent services market and will depend on our ability to: (i) implement and grow the earning asset strategy; (ii) develop new strategic alliances for products and services; (iii) increase significantly the number of customers using the Internet for their financial service requirements; (iv) implement and improve the bank’s operational, financial and management information systems; (v) hire and train qualified personnel; and (vi) satisfy regulatory requirements related to our expansion plans. Our business model contains inherent risk because we rely on third-party information in making lending decisions. If this information is inadequate, we may fail to realize risks in loans that we make, which could adversely affect our credit quality and ability to earn profits. We are primarily engaged in the business of correspondent banking. We buy loan participations that smaller banks originate and then sell to the secondary market, and we fund loans smaller banks cannot fully fund due to their low lending limits. As part of this process, we often rely on information provided to us by independent, third-party banks that are more familiar than we are with the markets in which the loans are originated. If such third-party information is incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to adequately review such information, we may fail to realize risks in the loans we make, which could adversely affect our credit quality, resulting in a reduced ability to earn profits. Our business model contains inherent lending and regulatory risk because we have significant Internet bank operations and often have little personal interaction with our customers. A particular risk associated with Internet banking generally is the absence of personal contact with customers, which may make it difficult to verify the creditworthiness of customers and collateral for home equity loans, especially with out-of-area borrowers. Lack of personal contact with our customers could lead us to underestimate risks in the home equity loans we make or deposit accounts opened, which could adversely affect our credit quality or fraud account experience, resulting in a reduced ability to earn profits. It also requires that we maintain heightened safeguards against identity theft, fraud and Bank Secrecy Act violations, and we may design or administer these safeguards in a manner that does not protect us adequately against these issues. Our deposit customers are likely to be sensitive to price fluctuations for products and may have limited loyalty to us. The market for Internet banking continues to evolve. Therefore, we are unable to predict whether customers will continue to use the Internet to an extent necessary to support our business. Attractive rates offered by Nexity Bank may attract a segment of short-term depositors who could close their accounts in pursuit of higher rates 13 Table of Contents elsewhere. We expect that some customer attrition will occur especially within the first few months after a new customer begins to use the Bank’s services. We believe that customers who experience difficulty in accessing our bank or in conducting transactions early in their relationship with the Bank could terminate their relationship. In addition, one aspect of the current Internet banking business is that while many customers use an Internet bank for interest bearing deposit accounts, they are sometimes reluctant to use an Internet bank for other banking services such as loans. Customer attrition, or reluctance of customers to use the full range of services offered by Nexity Bank in a totally online environment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty or terminate their services. We outsource certain operational functions to third parties. If our third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with another service provider, our operations could be adversely affected. We depend significantly, and will continue to depend, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our current capital requirements. We may, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued future growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or you. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. We do not plan to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and any earnings are expected to be retained for use in developing and expanding our business. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, and housing starts in the local economies where we operate. If the principal communities in which we operate (Birmingham, Alabama; Atlanta, Georgia; Myrtle Beach and Columbia, South Carolina; Orlando, Florida, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Charlotte, North Carolina; Dallas, Texas; and the southeastern United States generally) do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Adverse market or economic conditions in any of the local communities where we operate may disproportionately increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to make their loan payments. An economic downturn could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our loan loss provision to increase, resulting in losses that materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 73% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in any of the local communities in which we operate could adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was $8.0 million as of December 31, 2007 and $7.4 million as of December 31, 2006. Our allowance for loan losses was $6.5 million and $4.9 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Unexpected changes in interest rates may decrease our net interest income. If we are unsuccessful in managing interest rate fluctuations, our net interest income could decrease materially. Our operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Like most depository institutions, our earnings and net interest income are affected by changes in market interest rates and other economic factors beyond our control. If our interest income and net interest margin decrease and our loan loss provision increases, we could experience losses that materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. In the correspondent banking area, we compete primarily with The Bankers Bank which is based in Atlanta, Georgia and is approximately twice our size in terms of assets and has a significant presence in the southeastern United States and a longer operating history than we have. We also compete with Internet, commercial and correspondent banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere and provide Internet banking services similar to ours. 15 Table of Contents We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. As a result, we may face a competitive disadvantage. Our success is dependent in part on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological change. The Internet and the online commerce industry are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our services, develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of such technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will successfully use new technologies effectively or adapt our transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Failure to introduce new products and services successfully may cause us to lose market share. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to offer new products and provide new financial services that meet changing customer requirements. If we fail to offer financial products and services that appeal to customers more than those offered by our competitors, we may lose market share, which could adversely affect our ability to earn profits. Our operations could be interrupted if our network or computer systems fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations in the Internet banking and correspondent banking markets are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could result in a loss of customers and, thereby, have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Nexity Bank management invested in redundant systems infrastructure for the bank including hardware, software and monitoring tools at the AT&T Co-location facility in Lithia Springs, Georgia. The redundant systems are securedly housed in this facility including redundant electrical power, air systems and duplicated internet access lines. Nexity Bank also has a “Command Center” in Birmingham, Alabama on a separate grid for operating the back up facility in the event of a local building outage of the headquarters office. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure used by us against damage from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by other Internet users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through such computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential customers. There can be no assurance that our security measures will be successful. A failure of our security measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of laws, many of which may be unclear in their application to Internet operations. Nexity Bank must comply with both state and federal law as it conducts banking business over the Internet. As an institution conducting business on a multi-state basis, Nexity Bank must comply with the individual laws and regulations of each host state. These laws may include various state licensing and registration requirements that are generally applicable to banks as well as state laws and regulations that specifically govern electronic commerce. Compliance with electronic commerce laws may present a particular challenge as these laws are still being developed in many states. In addition to these state laws and regulations, Congress has considered the adoption of laws that may apply to commerce over the Internet, and, thus, future federal laws and regulations also may significantly affect the way Nexity Bank conducts business. A widespread security breach on the Internet may adversely affect our deposits. We depend on the Internet for our deposits. Widespread security breaches on the Internet may cause people to avoid conducting business, including banking, on the Internet and may inhibit growth of our deposits and ability to generate profits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 