ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks associated with owning our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our industry, our business and our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Industry Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions may significantly and negatively affect our results of operations. Continued weak economic conditions in the United States and abroad have, and will likely continue to, substantially affect our revenue and profitability. The domestic and global financial crisis, the associated fluctuating oil and gas prices, and the unprecedented levels of disruption and continuing illiquidity in the credit markets have had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and if sustained or worsened, such adverse effects could continue or worsen. Uncertainty and turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact the ability of our customers to finance purchases of our products and services and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders included in our backlog or adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. If the availability of credit to our customers is reduced, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the domestic and global financial crisis and the many ways in which it may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. The continuation or further deterioration of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Decreased oil and natural gas prices and oil and gas industry expenditure levels could adversely affect our revenue. Our revenue is derived from expenditures in the oil and natural gas industry, which, in turn, are based on budgets to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas. If these expenditures decline, our revenue will suffer. The industry’s willingness to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas depends largely upon the prevailing view of future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and gas historically have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence oil and natural gas prices, including: · the level of oil and natural gas production; · the level of oil and natural gas inventories; · domestic and worldwide demand for oil and natural gas; · the expected cost of developing new reserves; · the cost of producing oil and natural gas; · the level of drilling and completions activity; · inclement weather; 7 · domestic and worldwide economic activity; · regulatory and other federal and state requirements in the United States; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other large producers to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; · political conditions in or affecting oil and natural gas producing countries; · terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere; · the cost of developing alternate energy sources; · environmental regulation; and · tax policies. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our equipment and services. Our rental contracts are generally short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to upward or downward changes in prices. Any reduction in drilling and production activities may materially erode both pricing and utilization rates for our equipment and services and adversely affects our financial results. As a result, we may suffer losses, be unable to make necessary capital expenditures and be unable to meet our financial obligations. The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. In our business segments, we compete with the oil and natural gas industry’s largest equipment and service providers who have greater name recognition than we do. These companies also have substantially greater financial resources, larger operations and greater budgets for marketing, research and development than we do. They may be better able to compete because of their broader geographic dispersion and ability to take advantage of international opportunities, the greater number of compressors in their fleet or their product and service diversity. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to those competitors. These companies may also be better positioned than us to successfully endure downturns in the oil and natural gas industry. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better prices, features, performance or other competitive characteristics than our products and services. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could harm our revenue and our business. Additionally, we may face competition in our efforts to acquire other businesses. Our industry is highly cyclical, and our results of operations may be volatile. Our industry is highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high pricing followed by periods of low demand and low pricing. Periods of low demand intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rental equipment being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to enter into lower rate rental contracts in response to market conditions, and our sales may decrease as a result of such conditions. Due to the short-term nature of most of our rental contracts, changes in market conditions can quickly affect our business. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, our results of operations may be volatile in the future. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations that could require us to take costly compliance actions that could harm our financial condition. Our fabrication and maintenance operations are significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. In these operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash down wastes, and sandblast material. We attempt to use generally accepted operating and disposal practices and, with respect to acquisitions, will attempt to identify and assess whether there is any environmental risk before completing an acquisition. Based on the nature of the industry, however, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. The waste on these properties may be subject to federal or state environmental laws that could require us to remove the wastes or remediate sites where they have been released. We could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource and other damages as a result of our conduct or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners, lessees or other third parties. Environmental laws and 8 regulations have changed in the past, and they are likely to change in the future. If current existing regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could harm our operations and financial condition, including the: · issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; · denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations; · reduction or cessation in operations; and · performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. Risks Associated With Our Company We might be unable to employ qualified technical personnel, which could hamper our plans for expansion or increase our costs. Many of the compressors that we sell or rent are mechanically complex and often must perform in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ and retain a sufficient number of technical personnel who have the ability to design, utilize, enhance and maintain these compressors. Our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high and supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or cause an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase and our operations and growth potential could be impaired. We could be subject to substantial liability claims that could harm our financial condition. Our products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. While we maintain insurance coverage, we face the following risks under our insurance coverage: · we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; · we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance, such as damages from significant product liabilities and from environmental contamination; · the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits; and · we do not maintain coverage against the risk of interruption of our business. Any claims made under our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance, are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, would reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We will require a substantial amount of capital to expand our compressor rental fleet and grow our business. During 2010, capital expenditures related to rental compression equipment will be determined primarily by the activity of our customers, and we do not anticipate that demand exceeding what we can fund with internally generated funds. The amount and timing of any of these capital expenditures may vary depending on a variety of factors, including the level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and the presence of alternative uses for our capital, including any acquisitions that we may pursue. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through internally generated funds, borrowings under bank credit facilities and the proceeds of equity financings. Although we believe that cash flows from our operations will provide us with sufficient cash to fund our planned capital expenditures for 2010, we cannot assure you that these sources will be sufficient. We may require additional capital to fund any unanticipated capital expenditures, including any acquisitions, and to fund our growth beyond 2010, and necessary capital may not be available to us when we need it or on acceptable terms. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 Disruptions in the credit and financial markets have adversely affected financial institutions, inhibited lending and limited access to capital and credit for many companies. Several large financial institutions have either recently failed or been dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate as a going concern. Our $40 million line of credit, which we owe $7.0 million on as of December 31, 2009, expires on May 1, 2010. All outstanding principal and unpaid interest is due on May 1, 2010. As of January 2010, we have paid down the line of credit to $ 500,000. Although we believe that we will be able to renew our existing line of credit, or obtain a new line of credit with another lender, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in renewing our line of credit or obtaining a new line. In addition, any renewal of our existing line of credit or creation of a new line of credit may be on terms less favorable that our existing line. For instance, changes in the terms of a new line of credit may include, but not be limited to: a reduction in the borrowing amount, an increase in interest rate to be paid on borrowings under the line, or restrictive covenants that are more onerous than those on our existing line of credit. We believe that the lender participating in our current credit facility (or any lender(s) in future credit facilities) has adequate capital and resources; however, we can provide no assurance that these lenders will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the lenders in our lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced or eliminated. In the event that the availability under our credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (1) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks (if any) in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, (2) accessing the public capital markets, or (3) delaying certain projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital, any alternatives at the time may be on terms less favorable than under our existing credit facility terms, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our current debt level may negatively impact our current and future financial stability. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of approximately $13.2 million of outstanding indebtedness, and accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $3.7 million. As a result of our significant indebtedness, we might not have the ability to incur any substantial additional indebtedness. The level of our indebtedness could have several important effects on our future operations, including: · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other purposes may be limited; · a significant portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; and · our significant leverage could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we are unable to service our debt, we will likely be forced to take remedial steps that are contrary to our business plan. As of December 31, 2009, our principal payments for our debt service requirements were approximately $282,000 on a monthly basis; $845,000 on a quarterly basis; and $3.4 million on an annual basis. It is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service requirements and the payment of principal when due. If this were to occur, we may be forced to: · sell assets at disadvantageous prices; · obtain additional financing; or · refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on terms that may be less favorable to us. 10 Our current bank loan agreement contains covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility and, if breached, could expose us to severe remedial provisions. Under the terms of our loan agreement, we must: · comply with a minimum current ratio; · maintain minimum levels of tangible net worth; · not exceed specified levels of debt; · comply with a debt service coverage ratio; and · comply with a debt to tangible net worth ratio. Our ability to meet the financial ratios and tests under our bank loan agreement can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy those ratios and tests. A breach of any one of these covenants could permit the bank to accelerate the debt so that it is immediately due and payable. If a breach occurred, no further borrowings would be available under our loan agreement. If we were unable to repay the debt, the bank could proceed against and foreclose on our assets, substantially all of which have been pledged as collateral to secure payment of our indebtedness. If we fail to acquire or successfully integrate additional businesses, our growth may be limited and our results of operations may suffer. As part of our business strategy, we intend to evaluate potential acquisitions of other businesses or assets. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such acquisitions. Successful acquisition of businesses or assets will depend on various factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain financing and the competitive environment for acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses or assets that we acquire in the future. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to be complex and time consuming and place a significant strain on management and may disrupt our business. We also may be adversely impacted by any unknown liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating common accounting, information and communication systems, operating procedures, internal controls and human resources practices, including incompatibility of business cultures and the loss of key employees and customers. These difficulties may reduce our ability to gain customers or retain existing customers, and may increase operating expenses, resulting in reduced revenues and income and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, a significant majority of our compressor rentals were for terms of six months or less which, if terminated or not renewed, would adversely impact our revenue and our ability to recover our initial equipment costs. The length of our compressor rental agreements with our customers varies based on customer needs, equipment configurations and geographic area. In most cases, under currently prevailing rental rates, the initial rental periods are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the average cost of acquiring or fabricating the equipment. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of our customers will continue to renew their rental agreements or that we will be able to re-rent the equipment to new customers or that any renewals or re-rentals will be at comparable rental rates. The inability to timely renew or re-rent a substantial portion of our compressor rental fleet would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of one or more of our current customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is dependent not only on securing new customers but also on maintaining current customers. We had two customers that accounted for approximately 21% each of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and approximately 26% and 14% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Unless we are able to retain our existing customers, or secure new customers if we lose one or more of our significant customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. 11 Loss of key members of our management could adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of key members of our executive and senior management team. If any of our key managers resign or become unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not carry any key-man insurance on any of our officers or directors. Failure to effectively manage our growth and expansion could adversely affect our business and operating results and our internal controls. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations in recent years and anticipate that our growth will continue if we are able to execute our strategy. Our rapid growth has placed significant strain on our management and other resources which, given our expected future growth rate, is likely to continue. To manage our future growth, we must be able to, among other things: · accurately assess the number of additional officers and employees we will require and the areas in which they will be required; · attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers and employees; · train and manage our work force in a timely and effective manner; · upgrade and expand our office infrastructure so that it is appropriate for our level of activity; and · improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Liability to customers under warranties may materially and adversely affect our earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the equipment we manufacture. Our equipment is complex and often deployed in harsh environments. Failure of this equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and to help prevent financial fraud. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. We must evaluate our intangible assets annually for impairment. Our intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization and consist of goodwill and patent costs and other identifiable intangibles. 12 We did not indentify any impairment based on an independent valuation as of June 2006 and internal evaluations in December 2007, 2008 and 2009 of our reporting units with goodwill and other identifiable intangibles. Future impairment tests could result in impairments of our intangible assets or goodwill. We expect to continue to amortize our intangible assets with finite lives over the same time periods as previously used, and we will test our intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least once each year. In addition, we are required to assess the consumptive life, or longevity, of our intangible assets with finite lives and adjust their amortization periods accordingly. Our net goodwill and intangible assets were recorded on our balance sheet at approximately $13.1 million and $12.8 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our identifiable intangibles are currently amortized at a rate of $299,000 per year. Any impairment in future periods of those assets, or a reduction in their consumptive lives, could materially and adversely affect our statements of income and financial position. A reduction in demand for oil or natural gas or prices for those commodities and credit markets could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the energy market, including natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a significant reduction in oil and natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. As a result, the demand for our natural gas compression services could be adversely affected. A reduction in demand could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shale and coal beds constitute the majority percentage of our business. Such unconventional sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our products and services. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities and credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined in recent months, and the capital markets have been unavailable as a source of financing to these customers. The combination of a reduction in cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing will result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services in 2010. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression equipment or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts or purchase new compression equipment. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate which may cause our common stock to trade at a substantially lower price than the price paid for our common stock. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell securities in the future is subject to substantial fluctuations in response to various factors, including our ability to successfully accomplish our business strategy, the trading volume of our stock, changes in governmental regulations, actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results, our involvement in litigation, general market conditions, the prices of oil and natural gas, announcements by us and our competitors, our liquidity, our ability to raise additional funds, and other events. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, may lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. These potential sales could include sales of shares of our common stock by our Directors and officers, who beneficially owned approximately 3.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 1, 2010. We currently have on file with the SEC an effective “universal” shelf registration statement on form S-3, which enables us to sell, from time to time, our common stock and other securities covered by the registration statement in one or more public offerings. The shelf registration statement allows us to enter the public markets and consummate sales of the registered securities in rapid fashion and with little or no notice. Issuances of securities under our shelf registration statement may dilute our existing shareholders. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 13 If we issue debt or equity securities, you may lose certain rights and be diluted. If we raise funds in the future through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the securities issued may have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the securities may impose restrictions on our operations or dilute your ownership in Natural Gas Services Group, Inc. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not intend to pay, and have restrictions upon our ability to pay, dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures, and to retire debt. In addition, our bank loan agreement contains restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have a comparatively low number of shares of common stock outstanding and, therefore, our common stock may suffer from limited liquidity and its prices will likely be volatile and its value may be adversely affected. Because of our relatively low number of outstanding shares of common stock, the trading price of our common stock will likely be subject to significant price fluctuations and limited liquidity. This may adversely affect the value of your investment. In addition, our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in management, future announcements concerning us, general trends in the industry and other events or factors as well as those described above. Provisions contained in our governing documents could hinder a change in control of us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that: · directors are elected for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the board of directors standing for election each year; · cumulative voting is not allowed, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect any directors; · the unanimous vote of the board of directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all shares entitled to vote in the election of directors is required to change the size of the board of directors; and · directors may be removed only for cause and only by the holders of not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors can fix the terms of the preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. In addition, preferred stock could be used in connection with the Board of Directors’ adoption of a shareholders’ rights plan (also known as a poison pill), which would make it much more difficult to effect a change in control of our company through acquiring or controlling blocks of stock. Also, our directors and officers as a group will continue to beneficially own stock and although this is not a majority of our stock, it confers substantial voting power in the election of directors and management of our company. This would make it difficult for other minority stockholders to effect a change in control or otherwise extend any significant control over the management of our company. This may adversely affect the market price and interfere with the voting and other rights of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved as of the date of this Report. 14 ITEM 