ITEM 1A Risk Factors The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. We cannot predict the effect of the national economic situation on our future results of operations or stock trading price. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular, are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. No one can predict the severity or duration of this national downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in our markets would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the trading price of our stock to decline. We cannot predict the effect of recent and pending federal legislation. On October 3, 2008, Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), which provides the United States Treasury Department (“Treasury”) with broad authority to implement action intended to help restore stability and liquidity to the US financial markets. The EESA also increases the amount of deposit account insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 effective until December 31, 2009. As of early 2009, additional legislation has been promulgated or is pending under EESA which is intended to provide, among other things, an injection of capital from the Treasury into financial institutions through the Capital Assistance Program, establishment of a public-private investment fund for the purchase of troubled assets, and the expansion of the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to include commercial mortgage backed-securities. The full effect of the broad legislation already enacted and related legislation expected to be enacted in the near future on the national economy and financial institutions, particularly on mid-sized institutions like us, cannot now be predicted. Our ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected to the extent the financial service industry’s reputation is damaged. Reputation risk is the risk to liquidity, earnings and capital arising from negative publicity regarding the financial services industry. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry’s image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as our banking subsidiary. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. We seek to manage our interest rate risk within well established guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. The current economic downturn in the market areas we serve may cause us to have lower earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. -18- The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode our earnings. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Washington and Oregon, and a continuing decline in the economy of these market areas could impact us adversely. Recently, a series of large Puget Sound-based businesses, including Microsoft, Starbucks, and Boeing, have announced or began to implement substantial employee layoffs and scaled back plans for future growth. Additionally, the recent acquisition of Washington Mutual by JPMorgan Chase & Co. has also resulted in substantial employee layoffs, and is expected to result in a substantial increase in office space availability in downtown Seattle. Oregon has also seen a similar pattern of large lay offs in major metropolitan areas, a continued decline in housing prices, and a significant increase in the state’s unemployment rate. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and financial condition: · loan delinquencies may increase further, migrating into our substantial commercial real estate and business lending portfolios; · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; · demand for banking products and services may decline; and · low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. By managing our credit quality, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate to a nonperforming status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, requiring an increase to the loan loss allowance. Additionally, future additions to the allowance may be required based on changes in the loans comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Concentration in real estate market We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate. While the Pacific Northwest typically lags the national economy, the affects of the economic deterioration are now significantly impacting our market area. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in loans secured by real estate. Further decline in the real estate markets that we serve could negatively affect our business because the collateral securing those loans may decrease in value. A continued downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on the borrowers’ ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we be would more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk A continued tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain adequate money to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking and a borrowing line with the FHLB to fund loans. In the event the current economic downturn continues, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. -19- If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $22,031 of goodwill on our balance sheet. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is not amortized but rather evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stocks of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. We may be required in the future to recognize an impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Under the current economic downturn, investment portfolios continue to record significant unrecognized losses. The Company’s current securities portfolio contains credit risk associated with whole loan private mortgage-backed securities. The Company may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities. The company evaluates the securities portfolio for any other than temporary impairment under EITF 03-1 on a monthly basis, and as of December 31, 2008, we did not recognize any securities as other than temporarily impaired. There can be no assurance, however, that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. The FHLB stock held by the Company is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB recently reported that due to ongoing turmoil in the capital and mortgage markets, it will likely report a risk-based capital deficiency as of December 31, 2008. The FHLB has indicated that it believes that it has adequate capital to cover the risks reflected on its balance sheet. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and we may separately incur state statutory assessments in the future. Based on recent events and the state of the economy, the FDIC has increased federal deposit insurance premiums by 7 basis points for the first quarter of 2009. The increase of these premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Company. New rules governing deposit insurance premiums are expected to go into effect on April 1, 2009. These new rules are intended to make assessments more balanced by requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule imposing an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points on insured institutions, and granting the FDIC the authority to impose an additional emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009 of up to 10 basis points if necessary. The assessment will be calculated on June 30, 2009 deposit balances and collected on September 30, 2009. Based on the Company’s December 31, 2008 deposits subject to FDIC insurance assessments, the special assessment will be approximately $1.5 million. Depending on any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer due to failed institutions, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant premium increases or special assessments in order to replenish the fund. -20- Further, under Oregon and Washington state laws, the Company may incur additional costs if one or more Oregon or Washington state banks that hold public deposits fail, since, as a public depositary, we are subject to Oregon and Washington statutory pro-rata assessments to cover any net losses in public deposits not otherwise covered by federal deposit insurance or other means. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. These powers recently have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 