ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Salon's Future Results and Market Price of Stock Salon's projected cash flows may not meet expectations Salon relies on cash projections to run its business. The most significant component of Salon's cash projections is cash to be generated from advertising sales and, to a lesser extent, cash to be generated from Salon Premium. Forecasting cash receipts from advertising sales for an extended period of time is problematic due to the short duration of most advertising sales. If projected cash inflows and outflows do not meet expectations, Salon's ability to continue as a going concern may be adversely affected. If Salon forecasts or experiences periods of limited, or diminishing cash resources, Salon may need to issue additional securities. There is no guarantee that Salon will be able to issue additional securities in future periods to meet cash needs and, if it is unable to raise additional cash, Salon's ability to continue as a going concern may be adversely affected. Salon may issue additional preferred stock at effective prices lower than current common stock market prices that may result in non-cash charges to operations The certificate of designation and preferences and rights of the Series D preferred stock stipulates that the Series D conversion price will be equal to 70% of the average closing sales price of Salon's common stock for the thirty days prior to the date Salon provides notice to purchasers of its intent to sell additional shares of Series D preferred stock. Such a discount, and the time lag between the date of the notice and the date a transaction is consummated, may trigger a non-cash preferred deemed dividend charge. In connection with the sale of 209 shares of Series D-3 in December 2005, it incurred a preferred deemed dividend charge of $1.0 million. Currently, there are 1,042 shares of authorized and unissued shares of Series D preferred that it may sell. Salon cannot predict to what extent it may incur future preferred deemed dividend charges, if any. Salon has relied on related parties for significant investment capital Salon has been relying on cash infusions from related parties to fund operations. The related parties are primarily John Warnock, a Director of Salon, and William Hambrecht. William Hambrecht is the father of Salon's President and Chief Executive Officer. Subsequent to March 31, 2006, these two related parties, in conjunction with affiliated entities, exercised warrants for which Salon received $0.5 million. In addition, William Hambrecht and John Warnock have committed to provide Salon with $0.4 million in cash in July 2006 from the exercise of outstanding warrants and from the purchase of additional shares of Series D preferred stock. Curtailment of cash investments by related parties could detrimentally impact Salon's cash availability and its ability to fund its operations. Salon's principal stockholders can exercise a controlling influence over Salon's business affairs and they may make business decisions with which non-principal stockholders disagree that may affect the value of their investment Based on information available to Salon, the holders of Salon's Series A, B, C and D preferred stock collectively own approximately 95% of all voting securities as of May 15, 2006. These stockholders therefore own a controlling interest in Salon. Of this amount, approximately 69% is held by related parties, including former Directors, of which approximately 21% is controlled directly or indirectly by 13 William Hambrecht and approximately 41% by Director John Warnock. Therefore, related parties by themselves own a controlling interest in Salon. If these stockholders were to act together, they would be able to exercise control over all matters requiring approval by other stockholders, including the election of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of accelerating, delaying or preventing a change in control of Salon, which could cause Salon's stock price to decline. Future sales of Salon's common stock by principal stockholders of significant number of shares of its stock could cause its stock price to decline. Salon's preferred stock holders can convert 8,558 shares of preferred stock to approximately 183 million shares of common stock at their discretion, and as a group, hold over 18 million shares of common stock. Even though only one shareholder during the year ended March 31, 2006 converted one share of Series A preferred stock and 36 shares of Series C preferred stock to 760,173 shares of common stock, other more significant holders of preferred stock could convert their holdings to common stock. If these stockholders convert their shares of preferred stock to common stock and sell the resulting shares, such an inflow of common stock into the securities market may cause the price of Salon's common stock to decline. Salon's preferred stockholders are entitled to potentially significant liquidation preferences of Salon's assets over common stockholders in the event of such an occurrence Salon's Series A, B, C and D preferred stockholders have liquidation preferences to common stockholders of the first approximately $21.7 million in potential sales proceeds as of March 31, 2006, which includes the effect of undeclared dividends of $2.4 million. If a liquidation event were to occur, and preferred stock dividends were declared, the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to the first $21.7 million of cash distributions, while the holders of common stock would receive none of this amount. If a liquidation event were to occur in excess of $21.7 million and if preferred stock dividends were to be declared, the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to receive a relatively larger distribution than the holders of common stock would be entitled to receive. Salon has historically lacked significant revenues and has a history of losses Salon has a history of significant losses and expects to incur a loss from operations, based on generally accepted accounting principals, for its fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 and potentially in future years. Once Salon attains profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow slower than Salon anticipates or operating expenses exceed expectations, financial results will most likely be severely harmed and the ability of Salon to continue its operations will be seriously jeopardized. Burr, Pilger & Mayer LLP, Salon's independent registered public accounting firm for the years ended March 31, 2004, March 31, 2005, and March 31, 2006, included a "going-concern" audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements for those years. The audit opinions report substantial doubt about Salon's ability to continue as a going concern, citing issues such as the history of losses and absence of current profitability. As a result of the "going-concern" opinions, Salon's stock price and investment prospects have been and will continue to be adversely affected, thus limiting financing choices and raising concerns about the realization of value on assets and operations. 14 Salon's Site Pass advertising model may inhibit traffic to its Website, which would harm its revenues and business As a result of analyzing the traffic patterns to Salon's Website, Salon believes that its Site Pass advertising model, which Salon credits as instrumental in increasing advertising revenues, and driving memberships to Salon Premium, inhibits growth in traffic to its Website. Salon contemplates further analysis of these relationships and may adjust its Site Pass advertising model to attract a wider audience. While a wider audience is intended to increase the supply of advertising impressions, and to introduce more potential members to Salon Premium, Salon cannot estimate when, or if, membership to Salon Premium will again increase or if it will be successful in adjusting its Site Pass to achieve desired results. Salon's operations require attractive content, subscriber interest, and confidence by subscribers that the subscription offering warrants their long-term support and investment Salon is under budgetary constraints to control expenditures. These constraints affect editorial staffing levels and the purchase of content from freelance writers. These constraints affect the quantity of content published on Salon's Website and consequently, a positive experience of Website visitors. The positive experience leads to recurring Website visits and new subscriptions to Salon Premium. The absence of any of these factors could impair the results, revenue and cash flow from subscriptions. Salon cannot predict how many new Salon Premium subscriptions it will acquire. Salon Premium memberships have been declining and may continue to decline, adversely affecting revenues and available cash Salon has been relying on the revenues and cash generated from Salon Premium subscriptions since its implementation in April 2002. Salon Premium subscriptions grew from nothing to a high of approximately 89,100 as of December 31, 2004. However, since the high experienced in December 31, 2004, subscriptions have been declining to approximately 65,500 as of March 31, 2006. If this decline were to continue, Salon's operations and available cash could be adversely affected. Salon has depended on advertising sales for much of its revenues, and its inability to maintain or increase advertising revenues will harm its business Maintaining or increasing Salon's advertising revenues depends upon many factors, including whether it will be able to: o successfully sell and market its Website Site Pass or other rich media advertisements; o entice non Salon Premium Website visitors to view and advertisers to sell new ad units and formats; o maintain a significant number of unique Website visitors and corresponding significant reach of Internet users; o maintain a significant number of sellable impressions generated from Website visitors available to advertisers; o successfully sell and market its network to advertisers; o increase the dollar amount of the advertising orders it receives; 15 o increase awareness of the Salon brand; o improve the technology for serving advertising on its Website; o handle temporary high volume traffic spikes to its Website; o accurately measure the number and demographic characteristics of its users; and o attract and retain key sales personnel. Legislative Action and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements are likely to cause its general and administrative expenses and other operating expenses to increase To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and proposed accounting changes by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Salon may be required to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which will cause its general and administrative costs to increase. Recently adopted changes in the accounting rules for employee stock options as a compensation expense, among other accounting rules, could materially increase the expenses that it reports under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect its operating results. Hackers may attempt to penetrate Salon's security system; online security breaches could harm its business Consumer and supplier confidence in Salon's Website depends on maintaining relevant security features. Security breaches also could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation. Experienced programmers or "hackers" have successfully penetrated sectors of its systems and Salon expects that these attempts will continue to occur from time to time. Because a hacker who is able to penetrate network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in its products and services, Salon may have to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems caused by these hackers. Additionally, Salon may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate its network security. Such security breaches could materially affect Salon. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses resulting from hackers or otherwise could expose it to significant liability. Salon's insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse it for losses caused by security breaches. Salon also faces risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with whom it has relationships. Salon's stock has been and will likely continue to be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond its control, that may prevent its stockholders from reselling its common stock at a profit The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, have and may continue to reduce the market price of its common stock, regardless of its operating performance. In addition, Salon's operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of its common stock could decrease significantly. 16 With a volatile share price, Salon may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company's securities, security holders have instituted class action litigation. Salon's share price has in the past experienced price volatility, and may continue to do so in the future. Many companies have been subjected to this type of litigation. If the market value of its common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and it becomes involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the merits or outcome, Salon could incur substantial legal costs and its management's attention could be diverted, causing its business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. To date, Salon has not been subjected to such litigation. Salon's quarterly operating results are volatile and may adversely affect its common stock price Salon's future revenues and operating results, both GAAP and non GAAP, are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside Salon's control, and any of which could severely harm Salon's business. These factors include: o Salon's ability to attract and retain advertisers and subscribers; o Salon's ability to attract and retain a large number of users; o the introduction of new Websites, services or products by Salon or by its competitors; o the timing and uncertainty of Salon's advertising sales cycles; o the mix of advertisements sold by Salon or its competitors; o the economic and business cycle; o the level of Internet usage; o Salon's ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified personnel; o technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of Salon's Website; and o the amount and timing of operating costs. Due to the factors noted above and the other risks discussed in this section, one should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of Salon's results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that some future periods' results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of its common stock may decline. The controversial content of Salon's Website may limit its revenues Salon's Website contains, and will continue to contain, content that is politically and culturally controversial. As a result of this content, current and potential advertisers, potential Salon Premium subscribers, or third parties who contemplate aggregating content, may refuse to do business with Salon. 17 Salon's outspoken stance on political issues has and may continue to result in negative reactions from some users, commentators and other media outlets. From time to time, certain advocacy groups have successfully targeted Salon's advertisers in an attempt to persuade such advertisers to cease doing business with Salon. These efforts may be a material impediment to Salon's ability to grow and maintain advertising revenue. Salon's promotion of the Salon brand must be successful to attract and retain users as well as advertisers and strategic partners The success of the Salon brand depends largely on its ability to provide high quality content and services. If Internet users do not perceive Salon's existing content and services to be of high quality, or if Salon introduces new content and services or enters into new business ventures that are not favorably perceived by users, Salon may not be successful in promoting and maintaining the Salon brand. Any change in the focus of Salon's operations creates a risk of diluting its brand, confusing consumers and decreasing the value of its user base to advertisers. If Salon is unable to maintain or grow the Salon brand, its business could be severely harmed. Salon needs to hire, integrate and/or retain qualified personnel because these individuals are important to its growth Salon's success significantly depends on key personnel. In addition, because Salon's users must perceive the content of Salon's Website as having been created by credible and notable sources, Salon's success also depends on the name recognition and reputation of its editorial staff. Due to Salon's history of losses, Salon may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Salon may be unable to retain its current key employees or attract, integrate or retain other qualified employees in the future. If Salon does not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating its current personnel, its business could be harmed. Salon may expend significant resources to protect its intellectual property rights or to defend claims of infringement by third parties, and if Salon is not successful it may lose rights to use significant material or be required to pay significant fees Salon's success and ability to compete are significantly dependent on its proprietary content. Salon relies exclusively on copyright law to protect its content. While Salon actively takes steps to protect its proprietary rights, these steps may not be adequate to prevent the infringement or misappropriation of its content, which could severely harm its business. Salon also licenses content from various freelance providers and other third-party content providers. While Salon attempts to ensure that such content may be freely licensed to it, other parties may assert claims of infringement against it relating to such content. Salon may need to obtain licenses from others to refine, develop, market and deliver new services. Salon may not be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all or rights granted pursuant to any licenses may not be valid and enforceable. In April 1999 Salon acquired the Internet address www.salon.com. Because www.salon.com is the address of the main home page to its Website and incorporates its company name, it is a vital part of its intellectual property assets. Salon does not have a registered trademark on the address, and therefore it may be difficult for it to prevent a third party from infringing on its intellectual property rights in the 18 address. If Salon fails to adequately protect its rights in the Website address, or if a third party infringes its rights in the address, or otherwise dilutes the value of www.salon.com, its business could be harmed. Salon's technology development efforts may not be successful in improving the functionality of its network, which could result in reduced traffic on its Website or a loss of Salon Premium subscribers Salon has developed a proprietary online publishing system and has developed, and continues to improve, the software to manage its Salon Premium subscription service. If these systems do not work as intended, or if Salon is unable to continue to develop these systems to keep up with the rapid evolution of technology for content delivery and subscription management, its Website or subscription management systems may not operate properly, which could harm Salon's business. Additionally, software product design, development and enhancement involve creativity, expense and the use of new development tools and learning processes. Delays in software development processes are common, as are project failures, and either factor could harm Salon's business. Moreover, complex software products like its online publishing and subscription management systems frequently contain undetected errors or shortcomings, and may fail to perform or scale as expected. Although Salon has tested and will continue to test its systems, errors or deficiencies may be found in these systems that may impact its business adversely. Salon relies on software, purchased from an independent supplier, to deliver and report some of its advertising, the failure of which could impair its business Salon uses software, purchased from an independent supplier, to manage and measure the delivery of advertising on its Website. The software is essential to Salon whenever an advertiser does not stipulate ad serving from a third party such as Doubleclick. This type of software may fail to perform as expected. If this software malfunctions, advertisements may not be served correctly on its Website, or if the software does not accurately capture impression information, then Salon's advertising revenues could be reduced, and its business could be harmed. Measurement standards for Internet based advertising may not evolve to the extent necessary to support Internet advertising, thereby creating uncertainty about the viability of Salon's business model It is important to Salon's advertisers that Salon accurately presents the demographics of its user base and the delivery of advertisements on its Website. Salon depends on third parties to provide certain advertiser-requested services. If such third parties are unable to provide these services in the future, Salon will need to perform this function itself or obtain such services from another provider, if available. This could cause Salon to incur additional costs or lose revenue due to a lower level of service. Companies may choose not to advertise on Salon or may pay less for advertising if they do not perceive its measurements or measurements made by third parties to be reliable. Increasing competition among Internet content providers could reduce Salon's advertising sales or market share, thereby harming its business The market for Internet content is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Salon expects competition for Internet content to continue to increase, and if it cannot compete effectively, its business could be harmed. The number of Websites competing for the attention and spending of users and advertisers may continue to increase with the most trafficked Websites receiving a disproportionate share of advertising dollars. Salon is not one of the most trafficked Websites, or even one of the top fifty Websites. 19 Increased competition could result in advertising price reductions or loss of market share, any of which could harm Salon's business. Competition is likely to increase as new companies enter the market and current competitors expand their services. Many of Salon's present and potential competitors are likely to enjoy substantial competitive advantages over Salon. If Salon does not compete effectively or if it experiences any pricing pressures or loss of market share resulting from increased competition, its business could be harmed. Salon may be held liable for content or third party links on its Website or content distributed to third parties As a publisher and distributor of content over the Internet, including user-generated content, links to third party Websites that may be accessible through Salon.com, or content that includes links or references to a third party's Website, Salon faces potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature, content or ownership of the material that is published on or distributed from its Website. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services, Websites and print publications in the past. Other claims may be based on errors or false or misleading information provided on linked Websites, including information deemed to constitute professional advice such as legal, medical, financial or investment advice. Other claims may be based on links to sexually explicit Websites. Although Salon carries general liability and media insurance, its insurance may not be adequate to indemnify Salon for all liabilities imposed. Any liability that is not covered by its insurance or is in excess of its insurance coverage could severely harm its financial condition and business. Implementing measures to reduce its exposure to these forms of liability may require Salon to spend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of Salon's service to users. Concerns about transactional security may hinder electronic commerce on Salon's Website and may expose Salon to potential liability A significant barrier to sale of subscriptions and electronic commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Any breach in Salon's security could expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Salon relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information. As a result of advances in the capabilities of Internet hackers, or other developments, a compromise or breach of the algorithms Salon uses to protect customer transaction data may occur. A compromise of Salon's security could severely harm its business. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card information, or cause interruptions in the operation of its Website. Salon may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Protection may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. Salon's internally developed software and software platforms provided by a third party to manage Salon's subscription business might fail resulting in lost subscription income Salon's software to manage its subscription business was developed internally to interface with the software provided by a third party. The third party's software provides a gateway to authenticate credit card transactions. Even though Salon is Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliant, if these systems were to fail or not function as intended, credit card transactions might not be processed and Salon's cash resources and revenues would therefore be harmed. 20 Salon's systems may fail due to natural disasters, telecommunications failures and other events, any of which would limit user traffic Substantially all of Salon's communications hardware and computer hardware operations for its Website are in a facility in San Francisco, California that has been extensively retrofitted to withstand a major earthquake. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, supplier failure to meet commitments, and similar events could damage these systems and cause interruptions in its services. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could cause users to stop visiting Salon's Website and could cause advertisers to terminate any agreements with Salon. In addition, Salon could lose advertising revenues during these interruptions and user satisfaction could be negatively impacted if the service is slow or unavailable. If any of these circumstances occurred, Salon's business could be harmed. Salon's insurance policies may not adequately compensate it for any losses that may occur due to any failures of or interruptions in its systems. Salon does not presently have a formal disaster recovery plan. Salon's Website must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. It is possible that Salon will experience systems failures in the future and that such failures could harm its business. In addition, its users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other Website operators for access to its Website. Many of these providers and operators have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to its systems. Any of these system failures could harm its business. Privacy concerns could impair Salon's business Salon has a policy against using personally identifiable information obtained from users of its Website and services without the user's permission. In the past, the Federal Trade Commission has investigated companies that have used personally identifiable information without permission or in violation of a stated privacy policy. If Salon uses personal information without permission or in violation of its policy, Salon may face potential liability for invasion of privacy for compiling and providing information to its corporate customers and electronic commerce merchants. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify Internet users that the data may be used by marketing entities to direct product promotion and advertising to the user. Other countries and political entities, such as the European Union, have adopted such legislation or regulatory requirements. The United States may adopt similar legislation or regulatory requirements. If consumer privacy concerns are not adequately addressed, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Possible state sales and other taxes could adversely affect Salon's results of operations Salon does not collect sales or other taxes from individuals who sign up for Salon subscriptions. During the year ended March 31, 2003, the State of California audited Salon's sales tax returns and found Salon in compliance with its filings and did not object to the fact that it did not collect sales tax on subscriptions. However, one or more other states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, including Salon, which engage in or facilitate electronic commerce. State and local governments have discussed and made proposals imposing taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. Such proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and could reduce Salon's ability to derive revenue from electronic commerce. Moreover, if any state or foreign country were to assert successfully that Salon should collect sales or other taxes on the exchange of merchandise on its network or to tax revenue generated from Salon subscriptions, its financial results could be harmed. 21 Provisions in Delaware law and Salon's charter, stock option agreements and offer letters to executive officers may prevent or delay a change of control Salon is subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation's assets unless: o the board of directors approved the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation's assets; o after the transaction where the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation's assets, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or o on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the board of directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. A Delaware corporation may opt out of the Delaware anti-takeover laws if its certificate of incorporation or bylaws so provide. Salon has not opted out of the provisions of the anti-takeover laws. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control of Salon and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire Salon. Salon's certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: o Salon's board is classified into three classes of directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three year-terms; and o special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Salon's certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that it will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in investigations and legal proceedings resulting from their services to Salon, which may include services in connection with takeover defense measures. These provisions may have the effect of preventing changes in Salon's management. In addition, an employment agreement with an executive officer subsequent to March 31, 2006 provides for the payment of severance and acceleration of the vesting of options in the event of termination of the executive officer following a change of control of Salon. These provisions in offer letters could have the effect of discouraging potential takeover attempts. 22 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 