ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Salon’s Future Results and Market Price of Stock Salon’s business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks Salon faces. Additional risks that are not yet known or that are currently immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations or have a negative impact on the Company's stock price. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline. Salon’s projected cash flows may not meet expectations Salon relies on cash projections to run its business and changes such projections as new information is made available or events occur. The most significant component of Salon’s cash projections is cash to be generated from advertising sales and, to a lesser extent, cash to be generated from content licensing and referral fees. Forecasting advertising revenues and resulting cash receipts for an extended period of time is problematic due to the short duration of most advertising sales. If projected cash inflows and outflows do not meet expectations, Salon’s ability to continue as a going concern may be adversely affected. If Salon forecasts or experiences periods of limited, or diminishing cash resources, Salon may need to issue additional securities or borrow additional funds. These newly issued securities could be highly dilutive to existing common stockholders. However, there is no guarantee that Salon will be able to issue additional securities in future periods or borrow additional funds on commercially reasonable terms to meet its cash needs. Salon’s ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected if it is unable to raise additional cash from sources it had relied upon in the past or new sources. 15 Salon has relied on related parties for significant investment capital Salon has been relying on cash infusions primarily from related parties to fund operations. The related parties are generally John Warnock, Chairman of the Board of Salon, and William Hambrecht. William Hambrecht, appointed as a Director of the Company in February 2012, is the father of Salon’s former President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Elizabeth Hambrecht. During the year ended March 31, 2013, related parties provided approximately $4.1 million in cash advances to fund Salon’s operations. Curtailment of cash investments and borrowing guarantees by related parties could detrimentally impact Salon’s cash availability and its ability to fund its operations. Salon’s principal stockholders exercise a controlling influence over Salon’s business affairs and may make business decisions with which non-principal stockholders disagree and may affect the value of their investment On March 1, 2013, Salon completed the Recapitalization in which all of its convertible notes, related party advances and certain accrued consulting fees (aggregating $15.7 million, including interest on the convertible notes through February 28, 2013) and substantially all shares of its convertible preferred stock were exchanged for an aggregate of 72.9 million shares of Common Stock at a price of $0.35 per share. Of this 72.9 million shares of common stock, 26 million shares were issued on March 1, 2013. The remaining 47 million shares were issued immediately upon stockholder approval of an amendment to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation increasing the Company’s total authorized common shares on April 18, 2013 from 30 million to 150 million shares and the filing of such amendment with the Delaware Secretary of State on the same day. The amendment to the Company’s Restated Certificate Certificate of Incorporation increasing the Common Stock was previously adopted by Salon’s Board on February 1, 2013. Based on 76,157,942 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of June 3, 2013, the recipients of the shares in the Recapitalization own a controlling interest in Salon. Of this amount, approximately 23% is controlled directly or indirectly by Director William Hambrecht and approximately 59% by Chairman and Director John Warnock. Therefore, related parties by themselves own a controlling interest in Salon. If these stockholders were to act together, they would be able to exercise control over all matters requiring approval by other stockholders, including the election of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of accelerating, delaying or preventing a change in control of Salon, which could cause Salon’s stock price to decline. Future sales of significant number of shares of Salon’s Common Stock by principal stockholders could cause its stock price to decline Salon’s preferred stockholders, subsequent to the Recapitalization, can convert their remaining 1,075 shares of preferred stock to approximately 1.1 million shares of Common Stock at any time. As Salon’s Common Stock is normally thinly traded, if these stockholders were to convert their shares of preferred stock to Common Stock and sell the resulting shares, the per share price of Salon’s Common Stock may be adversely affected. 16 Salon’s stock has been and will likely continue to be subjected to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond its control and may prevent its stockholders from reselling its common stock at a profit The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, have and may continue to reduce the market price of Salon's Common Stock, regardless of its operating performance. In addition, Salon’s stock is thinly traded and operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of its Common Stock could decrease significantly. Salon’s preferred stockholders are entitled to potentially significant liquidation preferences of Salon’s assets over common stockholders in the event of such an occurrence Salon’s Series A, B, C and D preferred stockholders have liquidation preferences over common stockholders of the first approximately $21.8 million in potential sales proceeds as of March 31, 2013, which includes the effect of undeclared dividends of $7.9 million. If a liquidation event were to occur, and preferred stock dividends were declared, the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to the first $21.8 million of cash distributions, while the holders of common stock would receive none of this amount. If a liquidation event were to occur in excess of $21.8 million and if preferred stock dividends were to be declared, the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to receive a relatively larger distribution than the holders of Common Stock would be entitled to receive. Following the completion of the Recapitalization on April 18, 2013, Salon’s Series C preferred stockholders have liquidation preferences over common stockholders of the first approximately $9.7 million in potential sales proceeds, which includes the effect of undeclared dividends of $7.9 million. If a liquidation event were to occur, and preferred stock dividends were declared, the holders of preferred stock would be entitled to the first $9.7 million of cash distributions, while the holders of Common Stock would receive none of this amount. Salon has historically lacked significant revenues and has a history of losses Salon has a history of significant losses and expects to incur an operating loss, based on generally accepted accounting principles, for its fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. Salon expects to turn cash flow positive during fiscal year 2014. Once Salon attains profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow slower than Salon anticipates or operating expenses exceed expectations, financial results will most likely be severely harmed and the ability of Salon to continue its operations will be seriously jeopardized. Burr Pilger Mayer, Inc., Salon’s independent registered public accounting firm for the years ended March 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, included a “going-concern” audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements for those years. The audit opinions report substantial doubt about Salon’s ability to continue as a going concern, citing issues such as the history of losses and absence of current profitability. As a result of the “going-concern” opinions, Salon’s stock price and investment prospects have been and will continue to be adversely affected, thus limiting financing choices and raising concerns about the realization of value on assets and operations. 17 Salon has depended on advertising sales for much of its revenues, and its inability to maintain or increase advertising revenues could harm its business Maintaining or increasing Salon’s advertising revenues depends upon many factors, including whether it will be able to: ● successfully sell and market its website auto start Site Pass or other rich media advertisements; ● entice website visitors to view and advertisers to sell new ad units and formats; ● maintain a significant number of unique website visitors and corresponding significant reach of Internet users; ● maintain a significant number of sellable impressions generated from website visitors available to advertisers; ● successfully sell and market its network to advertisers; ● increase the dollar amount of the advertising orders it receives; ● maintain pricing levels of the advertising it sells; ● increase awareness of the Salon brand; ● improve the technology for serving advertising on its website; ● handle temporary high volume traffic spikes to its website; ● accurately measure the number and demographic characteristics of its users; and ● attract and retain key sales personnel. Legislative action and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause its general and administrative expenses and other operating expenses to increase To comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and proposed accounting changes by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Salon ultimately may be required to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which will cause its general and administrative costs to increase. Hackers may attempt to penetrate Salon’s security system; online security breaches could harm its business Consumer and supplier confidence in Salon’s website depends on maintaining relevant security features. Security breaches also could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation. Experienced programmers or “hackers” have successfully penetrated sectors of its systems and Salon expects that these attempts will continue to occur from time to time. Because a hacker who is able to penetrate network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in its products and services, Salon may have to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems caused by these hackers. Additionally, Salon may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate its network security. Such security breaches could materially affect Salon. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses resulting from hackers or otherwise could expose it to significant liability. Salon’s insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse it for losses caused by security breaches. Salon also faces risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with whom it has relationships. 18 With a volatile share price, Salon may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities, security holders have instituted class action litigation. Salon’s share price has in the past experienced price volatility, and may continue to do so in the future. Many companies have been subjected to this type of litigation. If the market value of its common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and it becomes involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the merits or outcome, Salon could incur substantial legal costs and its management’s attention could be diverted, causing its business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. To date, Salon has not been subjected to such litigation. Salon’s quarterly operating results are volatile and may adversely affect its common stock price Salon’s future revenues and operating results, in accordance with both generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) and non-GAAP, are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside Salon’s control, and any of which could severely harm Salon’s business. These factors include: ● Salon’s ability to attract and retain advertisers and subscribers; ● Salon’s ability to attract and retain a large number of users; ● the introduction of new websites, services or products by Salon or by its competitors; ● the timing and uncertainty of Salon’s advertising sales cycles; ● the mix of advertisements sold by Salon or its competitors; ● the economic and business cycle; ● Salon’s ability to attract, integrate and retain qualified personnel; ● technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of Salon’s website; and ● the amount and timing of operating costs. Due to the factors noted above and the other risks discussed in this section, one should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of Salon’s results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that some future periods’ results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of its common stock may decline. 19 The controversial content of Salon’s Website may limit its revenues Salon’s website contains, and will continue to contain, content that is politically and culturally controversial. As a result of this content, current and potential advertisers, potential Salon Premium subscribers, or third parties who contemplate aggregating content, may refuse to do business with Salon. Salon’s outspoken stance on political issues has and may continue to result in negative reactions from some users, commentators and other media outlets. From time to time, certain advocacy groups have successfully targeted Salon’s advertisers in an attempt to persuade such advertisers to cease doing business with Salon. These efforts may be a material impediment to Salon’s ability to grow and maintain advertising revenue. Salon’s promotion of the Salon brand must be successful to attract and retain users as well as advertisers and strategic partners The success of the Salon brand depends largely on its ability to provide high quality content and services. If Internet users do not perceive Salon’s existing content and services to be of high quality, or if Salon introduces new content and services or enters into new business ventures that are not favorably perceived by users, Salon may not be successful in promoting and maintaining the Salon brand. Any change in the focus of its operations creates a risk of diluting its brand, confusing consumers and decreasing the value of its user base to advertisers. If Salon is unable to maintain or grow the Salon brand, its business could be severely harmed. Salon needs to hire, integrate and/or retain qualified personnel because these individuals are important to its growth Salon’s success significantly depends on key personnel. In addition, because Salon’s users must perceive the content of Salon’s website as having been created by credible and notable sources, Salon’s success also depends on the name recognition and reputation of its editorial staff. Due to Salon’s history of losses, Salon may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Salon may be unable to retain its current key employees or attract, integrate or retain other qualified employees in the future. If Salon does not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating its current personnel, its business could be harmed. Salon may expend significant resources to protect its intellectual property rights or to defend claims of infringement by third parties, and if Salon is not successful it may lose rights to use significant material or be required to pay significant fees Salon’s success and ability to compete are significantly dependent on its proprietary content. Salon relies exclusively on copyright law to protect its content. While Salon actively takes steps to protect its proprietary rights, these steps may not be adequate to prevent the infringement or misappropriation of its content, which could severely harm its business. Salon also licenses content from various freelance providers and other third-party content providers. While Salon attempts to ensure that such content may be freely licensed to it, other parties may assert claims of infringement against it relating to such content. Salon may need to obtain licenses from others to refine, develop, market and deliver new services. Salon may not be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all or rights granted pursuant to any licenses may not be valid and enforceable. In April 1999 Salon acquired the Internet address www.salon.com. Because www.salon.com is the address of the main home page to its Website and incorporates its company name, it is a vital part of its intellectual property assets. Salon does not have a registered trademark on the address, and therefore it may be difficult for it to prevent a third party from infringing on its intellectual property rights to the address. If Salon fails to adequately protect its rights to the website address, or if a third party infringes its rights to the address, or otherwise dilutes the value of www.salon.com, its business could be harmed. 20 Salon’s technology development efforts may not be successful in improving the functionality of its network, which could result in reduced traffic on its website, reduced advertising revenues, or a loss of Premium subscribers Salon is constantly upgrading its technology to manage its website, and during the last year redesigned its website homepage and vertical sections. In addition, it is creating technology for new products that Salon expects to launch during its next fiscal year. If these systems do not work as intended, or if Salon is unable to continue to develop these systems to keep up with the rapid evolution of technology for content delivery and subscription management, its website or subscription management systems may not operate properly, which could harm Salon’s business. Additionally, software product design, development and enhancement involve creativity, expense and the use of new development tools and learning processes. Delays in software development processes are common, as are project failures, and either factor could harm Salon’s business. Moreover, complex software products such as its online publishing and subscription management systems frequently contain undetected errors or shortcomings, and may fail to perform or scale as expected. Although Salon has tested and will continue to test its systems, errors or deficiencies may be found in these systems that may adversely impact its business. Salon relies on software, purchased from an independent supplier, to deliver and report some of its advertising, the failure of which could impair its business Salon uses software, purchased from an independent supplier, to manage and measure the delivery of advertising on its website. The software is essential to Salon whenever an advertiser does not stipulate ad serving from a third party such as Doubleclick. This type of software may fail to perform as expected. If this software malfunctions, advertisements may not be served correctly on its website, or if the software does not accurately capture impression information, then Salon’s advertising revenues could be reduced, and its business could be harmed. Salon may be held liable for content or third party links on its website or content distributed to third parties As a publisher and distributor of content over the Internet, including user-generated content, links to third party websites that may be accessible through Salon.com, or content that includes links or references to a third party’s website, Salon faces potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature, content or ownership of the material that is published on or distributed from its website. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services, websites and print publications in the past. Other claims may be based on errors or false or misleading information provided on linked websites, including information deemed to constitute professional advice such as legal, medical, financial or investment advice. Other claims may be based on links to sexually explicit websites. Although Salon carries general liability and media insurance, its insurance may not be adequate to indemnify Salon for all liabilities imposed. Any liability that is not covered by its insurance or is in excess of its insurance coverage could severely harm its financial condition and business. Implementing measures to reduce its exposure to these forms of liability may require Salon to spend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of Salon’s service to users. 21 Salon’s systems may fail due to natural disasters, telecommunications failures and other events, any of which would limit user traffic Substantially all of Salon’s communications hardware and computer hardware operations for its website are in a facility in Sacramento, California that has been extensively retrofitted to withstand a major earthquake. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, supplier failure to meet commitments, and similar events could damage these systems and cause interruptions in its services. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could cause users to stop visiting Salon’s website and could cause advertisers to terminate any agreements with Salon. In addition, Salon could lose advertising revenues during these interruptions and user satisfaction could be negatively impacted if the service is slow or unavailable. If any of these circumstances were to occur, Salon’s business could be harmed. Salon’s insurance policies may not adequately compensate it for losses that may occur due to any failures of or interruptions in its systems. Salon does not presently have a formal disaster recovery plan. Salon’s website must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. It is possible that Salon will experience systems failures in the future and that such failures could harm its business. In addition, its users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators for access to its website. Many of these providers and operators have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to its systems. Any of these system failures could harm its business. Privacy concerns could impair Salon’s business Salon has a policy against using personally identifiable information obtained from users of its website and services without the user’s permission. In the past, the Federal Trade Commission has investigated companies that have used personally identifiable information without permission or in violation of a stated privacy policy. If Salon uses personal information without permission or in violation of its policy, Salon may face potential liability for invasion of privacy for compiling and providing information to its corporate customers and electronic commerce merchants. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify Internet users that the data may be used by marketing entities to direct product promotion and advertising to the user. Other countries and political entities, such as the European Union, have adopted such legislation or regulatory requirements. The United States may adopt similar legislation or regulatory requirements. If consumer privacy concerns are not adequately addressed, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Possible state sales and other taxes could adversely affect Salon’s results of operations During the year ended March 31, 2003, the State of California audited Salon’s sales tax returns and found Salon in compliance with its filings and did not object to the fact that it did not collect sales tax on subscriptions. During the year ended March 31, 2013, the Texas State Comptroller determined that Salon had nexus in the state and was therefore subject to sales tax on the subscriptions of subscribers residing in the state of Texas retroactive to 2004. One or more other states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, including Salon, which engage in or facilitate electronic commerce. State and local governments have discussed and begun to implement taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. Such proposals, could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and could reduce Salon’s ability to derive revenue from electronic commerce. Moreover, if any state or foreign country were to assert successfully that Salon should collect sales or other taxes on the exchange of merchandise on its network, its financial results could be harmed. 22 Provisions in Delaware law and Salon’s charter, stock option agreements and offer letters to executive officers may prevent or delay a change of control Salon is subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of its assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s assets unless: ● the Board of Directors approved the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s assets; ● after the transaction in which the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s assets, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, excluding shares owned by directors, officers and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or ● on or after this date, the merger or sale is approved by the Board of Directors and the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the stockholder. A Delaware corporation may opt out of the Delaware anti-takeover laws if its certificate of incorporation or bylaws so provide. Salon has not opted out of the provisions of the anti-takeover laws. As such, these laws could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control of Salon and may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire Salon. Salon’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions include: ● Salon’s Board is classified into three classes of Directors as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three year-terms; and ● special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Salon’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that it will indemnify officers and Directors against losses that they may incur in investigations and legal proceedings resulting from their services to Salon, which may include services in connection with takeover defense measures. These provisions may have the effect of preventing changes in Salon’s management. In addition, employment agreements with certain executive officers provide for the payment of severance and acceleration of the vesting of options and restricted stock in the event of termination of the executive officer following a change of control of Salon. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging potential takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 