D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We have a history of net losses and may never be profitable. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $4.7 million, $5.0 million and $0.7 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit amounted to $13.0 million. Our losses have resulted principally from our research and development costs and our selling, general and administrative expenses, including our stock-based compensation. We expect to incur additional losses in the future if our sales do not increase or if our expenses grow. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets, stockholders’ equity and cash flow. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable, or, even if we become profitable, that we would be able to sustain or increase our profitability. We will need additional capital to expand the production capacity for our existing products, to continue development of our product pipeline and to market existing and future products on a large scale, and we cannot guarantee that we will find adequate sources of capital in the future. We will need to raise further funds from the capital markets to finance expenditures for equipment, intellectual property asset acquisitions, to expand the production capacity for our existing products, to continue the development and commercialization of our product candidates and for other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $9,248,832 in cash and cash equivalents. Although we believe we have adequate near-term cash resources, we will need to undertake significant future financings for the following reasons: to proceed with the research and development of other vaccine products, including clinical trials of new products; to develop or acquire other product candidates or technologies; to establish and expand manufacturing capabilities; to commercialize our products, including the marketing and distribution of new and existing products; to protect our intellectual property; to seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and to finance general and administrative and research activities that are not related to specific products under development. In the past, we funded most of our research and development and other expenditures through government grants and working capital. We intend to raise additional funds in the near future because our current operating and capital resources may be insufficient to meet future requirements. If we continue to raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, it will result in further dilution to our existing shareholders, because the shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low, and because shares issued in equity financing will normally be sold at a discount to the current market price. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior or otherwise preferential to those of holders of our existing common shares. Unforeseen problems, including materially negative developments relating to, among other things, product sales, new product rollouts, clinical trials, research and development programs, our strategic relationships, our intellectual property, litigation, regulatory issues in our industry, the Chinese market generally or general economic conditions, could interfere with our ability to raise additional equity capital or materially adversely affect the terms upon which suc h funding is available. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose 4 significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to certain of our technologies, marketing territories, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves, or be required to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In the past, we have also received research grants from the PRC government to finance the development of our vaccine products. There can be no assurance we will receive additional grants in the future. We do not know whether additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms when needed. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue developing our products. In any such event, our ability to bring a product to market and obtain revenues could be delayed, competitors could develop products sooner than us, and we could be forced to relinquish rights to technologies, products or potential products. We currently have limited revenue sources and a reduction in revenues of Healive would cause our revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We generate all of our revenues from sales of our vaccine products. All of our product sales in 2004, and approximately 96% of our product sales in 2005 and 97% in 2006, were attributable to Healive. Our revenue from the sales of Healive was $6.5 million, $8.3 million and $14.8 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We only began marketing and selling our new product Bilive in 2005, but, to date, sales of this new product has been limited and we do not expect it to accelerate for some time, if at all. In addition, because Bilive is a combination hepatitis A and B vaccine, and Healive is a hepatitis A vaccine, an increase in Bilive sales may result in a decrease in Healive sales as customers substitute Bilive for Healive. We expect sales of Healive to continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. Since Healive and Bilive compete with each other to a certain degree, this could reduce o ur revenues and margins, and increase pricing pressure on these products and otherwise adversely affect our financial results. Because of this relative lack of product diversification, an investment in our company be more risky than investments in companies that offer a wider variety of products or services. Our legal counsel has advised us that we may have violated Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which prohibits an issuer from extending or maintaining personal loans to its directors or executive officers. As a result, we could become subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions or penalties and we may also face potential private securities litigation. We have extended and maintained some credit to two of our former directors, one of whom was also a former officer. Lily Wang, our former director and CFO until March 22, 2006, owed us a loan in the amount of approximately $1.8 million as of October 2004 arising from her earlier acquisition in September 2003 of Tangshan Yian’s equity interest in Sinovac Beijing. As of December 31, 2006, this loan has been fully repaid. Another former director, Heping Wang, also owed us unpaid capital contribution to Tangshan Yian in the amount of $2.6 million in early 2004, although the full amount of this capital contribution had been settled by November 2004. As of December 31, 2006, Mr. Wang still owed us accrued interests on the $2.6 million promissory note in the amount of $156,468. In addition, Heping Wang, in connection with his transfer of 100% equity interest in Tangshan Yian to us in 2004, agreed to assume and indemnify Tangshan Yian’s loan obligations in an aggregate amount of RMB 10.8 million comprising the RMB 9 million principal amount of the loan and a RMB 1.8 million funding fee. Heping Wang has yet to repay us RMB 10.8 million. We took remedial steps to address the potential violation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by issuing a loan repayment letter on June 22, 2006 to each of Lily Wang and Heping Wang demanding immediate full repayment by them of all outstanding loan balances including accrued interests. We have received full repayment of the loan owed by Lily Wang. Heping Wang also paid accrued interests on the $2.6 million promissory note in the amount of $164,291 and part of outstanding loan related to equity transfer of Tangshan Yian in the amount of $400,000 (equivalent to RMB3,098,240). As of the date of this annual report, Heping Wang still owed us RMB7,701,760. Heping Wang has undertaken to pay the balance in full by May 31, 2007. The potential violation of the Section 402 may cause governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or other U.S. authorities, to impose certain criminal, civil, a nd or administrative sanctions or penalties upon us. Similarly, private parties may also bring civil litigations against us for such violations. Our disclosure controls and procedures were found ineffective in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and we have concluded our disclosure controls and procedures remained not fully adequate and effective in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. These shortcomings in our disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares. In 2004, we identified certain shortcomings in our disclosure controls relating to the accounting treatment of acquired intellectual property, which caused us to believe that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. Our management has concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this 5 annual report, our existing disclosure controls and procedures remained not effective to provide reasonable assurance that the material information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with, or submit to, the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in by the SEC’s rules and regulations. Although we have taken a number of remedial actions as more fully described in the section captioned “Evaluation of the Disclosure Controls and Procedures” of Item 15 of this annual report, no assurance can be made that such remedial actions may effectively address the inadequacy or ineffectiveness in our disclosure controls and procedures. Nor can we guarantee that we will not identify further inadequacies and ineffectiveness in our disclosure controls and procedures that will require additional remedial actions to be taken. Our failure to establish and maintain adequate and effective disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the accuracy, completeness, reliability and timeliness of our disclosures, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common shares. We previously restated certain information in our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004. In 2004 and 2005, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and investors could lose confidence in our financial and other reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common shares. As disclosed in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004, we restated certain information in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004. We erred in commencing amortization of our hepatitis A vaccine license in July 2002 instead of April 2001, the date Tangshan Yian contributed the hepatitis A vaccine to Sinovac Beijing as its capital contribution. We erred in not treating the acquisition of certain licenses as purchases of in-process research and development. We also erred in capitalizing certain research and development costs that should have been expensed in 2003. Although we have corrected these errors and restated our financial statements, we concluded that, because of these accounting errors, there were material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as at December 31, 2004. During the audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we identified the following internal control issues: (1) our failure to timely reconcile our accounts under PRC generally accepted accounting principles to GAAP; (2) our failure to withhold the individual income tax with respect to the employees’ stock option gains; (3) the inappropriate claims by certain of our employees of personal income tax exemptions; (4) our understatement of selling expenses and liabilities; (5) our understatement of sales commissions and liabilities; and (6) our understatement of income tax expenses and tax liabilities. In response, we have corrected these errors and our management initiated a review of our financial and accounting systems and identified material weaknesses in our internal control system over financial reporting related to our lack of personnel with GAAP reporting experience. We have taken remedial actions with respect to these material weaknesses, such as the recruitment of a senior financial manager who is familiar with GAAP, and also followed the advice of our Chinese tax consultants and made appropriate treatment on individual income tax with respect to the employees’ stock option gains and our employees of personal income tax exemptions. We have also retained professional consultants to help us evaluate and improve our internal control over financial reporting. The efficacy of the steps we have taken to date and the steps we are still in the process of taking to improve the reliability of our financial statements is subject to continued management review. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could adversely affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We cannot guarantee that we will not identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future or that future restatements will not be required. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. In an effort to comply with such requirements by the effective date for compliance, we are working on scoping and preliminary evaluation and performing the system and proces s documentation, testing, and if 6 necessary, remediation. In that connection, we have appointed a professional consultant to assist us in such efforts. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness will be a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and our senior management. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remedial actions or the impact of the same on our operations. In addition, management may not eventually conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, if our independent registered public accountants are not satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures, the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, they may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. If we cannot implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with our listing obligations, we risk being de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading market for our common shares, reduce our ability to raise funds and otherwise have significant negative consequences to us. Although we believe we currently comply with the continued listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange in all material respects, this has not always been true in the past, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be in compliance with those requirements in the future. For example, until April 2006, we were not in full compliance with the American Stock Exchange corporate governance deadlines requiring maintenance of an independent board of directors with a majority of independent directors, establishment of a compensation committee, corporate governance and nominating committee, and adoption of a code of ethics. In the event that we were to cease being in compliance with these requirements again, or other exchange requirements, at some time in the future, the American Stock Exchange could de-list our stock from trading on that exchange. If our common shares were to be de-listed by the American Stock Exchange, we might be unable to list our common shares with another stock exchange. In that event, trading of our common shares might be limited to the over-the-counter market. De-listing of our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and price of our common shares and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, de-listing by the American Stock Exchange might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive biotechnology industry, our business could be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and the competition is expected to increase. Competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic research institutions, in each case both within and outside China. Some of these competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, have greater resources than us. New competitors may also enter into the markets where we currently compete. Accordingly, even if we are successful in launching a product, we may find that a competitive product dominates the market for any number of reasons, including: the possibility that the competitor may have launched its product first; the competitor may have greater access to certain raw materials; the competitor may have more efficient manufacturing processes; the competitor may have greater marketing capabilities; or the competitive product may have therapeutic or other advantages. The technologies applied by our competitors and us are rapidly evolving, and new developments frequently result in price competition and product obsolescence. In addition, we may be impacted by competition from generic forms of our products, substitute products or imports of products from lower priced markets. 7 We may not be able to capture market share of China’s increasing “inactive” hepatitis A vaccine market, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. In China, there are two major types of hepatitis A vaccine, live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine and inactivated hepatitis A vaccine. Effective January 1, 2006, liquid attenuated (active) hepatitis A vaccines were removed from the vaccines batch approval list that was issued on December 23, 2005 by the National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products, or the NICPBP. Because of this event, we believe there is big market potential for inactivated hepatitis A vaccine and freeze-dried live attenuated vaccine. In 2006, approximately 3.0 million doses of hepatitis A vaccine from us were released by the China SFDA, which is 32% of total number of hepatitis A vaccines released in the year, according to information from the China SFDA website. However, we may not be able to further expand our market share for hepatitis A vaccine, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our revenues. If end-users, such as hospitals, physicians and vaccinees, do not accept our products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even where our vaccines obtain regulatory approval for commercialization, they still may not gain market acceptance among CDCs, hospitals, physicians, vaccinees and the medical community, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. CDCs, hospitals and physicians may not recommend products developed by us or our collaborators until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products as compared to other available treatments. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our products is established, hospitals and physicians may elect not to recommend these products for a variety of factors, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. There are other vaccines and treatment options for the conditions that many of our products and product candidates target, such as hepatitis A and B and influenza. In order to successfully la unch a product, we must educate physicians and vaccinees about the relative benefits of our products. If our products are not perceived as easy and convenient to use, are perceived to present a greater risk of side effects or are not perceived to be as effective as other available treatments, CDC, hospitals, physicians and vaccinees might not adopt our products. A failure of our products to gain commercial acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may be adversely affected if market demand for our Anflu vaccine product does not meet our expectations. Many vaccinees receive their flu vaccinations in the three-month period from September to November in anticipation of an upcoming flu season, and we expect this period to be one of the most significant sales periods for this product each year. In anticipation of the flu season, we intend to build up inventory of our Anflu product in line with what we believe will be the anticipated demand for the product. If actual demand does not meet our expectations, we may be required to write off significant inventory and may otherwise experience adverse consequences in our financial condition. Even if our pandemic influenza product candidate obtains regulatory approval, by the time we complete development, the pandemic influenza threat may have abated or alternative vaccines or technologies may have been adopted. We are devoting significant resources to research and develop a new vaccine for pandemic influenza. Our pandemic influenza vaccine candidate has only completed phase I clinical trials. The development and clinical testing of our vaccine for pandemic influenza may take several years. Even if our vaccine for pandemic influenza obtains regulatory approval, by that time the threat of a pandemic influenza outbreak may be reduced, or government health organizations may have adequate stockpiles of pandemic influenza vaccine or have adopted other technologies or strategies to prevent or limit outbreaks. Our business is highly seasonal. This seasonality will contribute to considerable fluctuations of our operating results. Our business is highly seasonal. For example, the flu season generally runs from November through March of the next year, and the largest percentage of flu vaccinations is administered between September and November of each year. As a result, we expect to realize most of our annual revenues from Anflu during this period. We also experience an increase in demand for Healive and Bilive towards the end of a calendar year as our CDC customers tend to stockpile their vaccine inventory for the following year during the year-end procurement period. You should expect this seasonality in our business to contribute to significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. 8 If any of our third-party suppliers or manufacturers cannot adequately meet our needs, the stability of our business operations could be harmed. While we use raw materials and other supplies that are generally available from multiple commercial sources, certain raw materials such as embryonated eggs we use to cultivate our influenza vaccines are in short supply or difficult for suppliers to produce in accordance with our specifications. We also purchase supplies such as pre-filled syringes for our Healive, Bilive and Anflu vaccines. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials, and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these materials with alternative suppliers, our ability to produce our products or to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of product candidates would be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to secure long-term supply relationship for some of the raw materials we use, our business could be harmed. For example, we do not have a long-term supply agreement for hepatitis B vaccine we use for Bilive production. The hepatitis B vaccine we use for Bilive production has been sourced entirely from Beijing Temple of Heaven Biological Products Co., Ltd. In an agreement dated October 15, 2002, we agreed to purchase all hepatitis B vaccine to be used in our Bilive production exclusively from Beijing Temple of Heaven for 10 years and to enter into a separate supply agreement in the future to specify the pricing, quantity, delivery and payment terms of the hepatitis B vaccine supply relationship. However, this agreement is silent on whether Beijing Temple of Heaven is obligated to furnish us with hepatitis B vaccine for 10 years. From time to time, concerns are raised with respect to potential contamination of biological materials that are supplied to us. These concerns can further tighten market conditions for materials that may be in short supply or available from limited sources. Moreover, regulatory approvals to market our products may be conditioned upon obtaining certain materials from specified sources. Any efforts to substitute material from an alternate source may be delayed pending regulatory approval of such alternate source. Although we work to mitigate the risks associated with relying on sole suppliers, there is a possibility that material shortages could impact product development and production. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders and their affiliated entities and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control approximately 30.86% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2006. These stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership of these shareholders may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our common shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In cases where the interests of our significant shareholders are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders may also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, these shareholders could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. The interests of the existing minority shareholder in our Sinovac Beijing subsidiary may diverge from our own and this may adversely affect our ability to manage Sinovac Beijing. Sinovac Beijing, our principal operating subsidiary, is a Sino-foreign equity joint venture in which we directly own a 71.56% interest and China Bioway Biotech Group Co., Ltd., or China Bioway, an affiliate of Peking University, owns a 28.44% interest. China Bioway’s interest may not be aligned with our interest at all times. If our interests diverge, China Bioway may exercise its right under PRC laws to protect its own interest, which may be adverse to us. For example, under China’s joint venture regulations, unanimous approval of members of a joint venture’s (such as Sinovac Beijing) board of directors who are present at a board meeting is required for any amendment to the joint venture’s articles of association, the termination or dissolution of the joint venture company, an increase or decrease in the registered capital of the joint venture company or a merger or de-merger of the joint venture. China Bioway ap points one of the five directors of Sinovac Beijing’s board. Accordingly, China Bioway has the ability to block any action that requires unanimous board approval. Further, should we wish to transfer our equity interest in Sinovac Beijing, in whole or in part, to a third-party, China Bioway has a right of first refusal under China’s joint venture regulations. In addition to its statutory rights as a minority shareholder, China Bioway has additional rights under the joint venture contract and under the articles of association of Sinovac Beijing. The joint venture contract and articles of association require the consent of each of Sinovac Beijing’s shareholders and/or unanimous board approval on matters such as a major change in the business line of the company, expansion or amendment of the business scope of the company, transfer of the registered capital by a shareholder, creation of a mortgage or pledge upon the company’s assets, a change in 9 the organizational form of the company and designation or removal of the general manager. China Bioway has been cooperative with us in handling matters with respect to the business of Sinovac Beijing, but there is no assurance this will continue to be the case in the future. Some of the predecessor shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian were enterprises owning state-owned assets, or EOSAs. Their failure to comply with PRC legal requirements in asset or share transfers may, under certain circumstances, result in such transfers being invalidated by government authorities. If this would occur, we may lose our ownership of certain intellectual property rights that are vital to our business and our equity ownership in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian. Sinovac Beijing is currently owned 71.56% by us and 28.44% by China Bioway. Tangshan Yian is wholly owned by us. Some of the predecessor shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, including Shenzhen Kexing Biological Engineering Ltd., China Bioway, Tangshan Medicine Biotech Co., Ltd., Tangshan Yikang Biotech Co., Ltd. and Tangshan Yian itself (as Sinovac Beijing’s former shareholder) were EOSAs. Under applicable PRC laws, when EOSAs sell, transfer or assign assets or equity investments in their possession or under their control to third parties, they are required to obtain an independent appraisal of the transferred assets or shares and file such appraisal with or obtain approval of such appraisal from PRC government authorities. After 2004, EOSAs are also required to make such assets or equity transfers at the government-designated marketplaces. Our acquisitions of intellectual property rights and some of equity interests wer e subject to these requirements. The technologies related to hepatitis A vaccine, hepatitis A&B vaccine and influenza vaccine that are vital to our business were directly or indirectly transferred by Tangshan Yian to us. Tangshan Yian failed to file with government authorities the appraisal of the hepatitis A vaccine technology that it transferred in 2001 to Sinovac Beijing as Tangshan Yian’s capital contribution to Sinovac Beijing. Under PRC laws, Tangshan Yian may also have failed to (1) obtain the appraisal of the hepatitis A&B vaccine technology that it transferred for nil consideration to Beijing Keding Investment Co., Ltd., or Beijing Keding, in 2002 (Beijing Keding subsequently transferred the technology to Sinovac Beijing as Beijing Keding’s capital contribution to Sinovac Beijing) and to file such appraisal with government authorities and (2) obtain the appraisal of the influenza vaccine technology that it transferred to Sinovac Beijing in 2004 and to file such appraisal with government authorities, if book value of the hepatitis A&B vaccine technology and the influenza vaccine technology, as applicable, at the time of their transfers, were more than RMB 1 million or 20% of the total fixed assets of Tangshan Yian. These failures may potentially subject us to the risk of losing the ownership or control of these vaccine technologies. In addition, before we acquired our 71.56% equity interest in Sinovac Beijing and 100% equity interest in Tangshan Yian, both companies had undergone multiple changes in their shareholders and these shareholders’ shareholdings. Some of the EOSA shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, including China Bioway and Tangshan Medicine Biotech Co., Ltd., have sold, transferred or assigned their respective equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian without fully complying with laws to appraise the equity interests, to file such appraisals with or obtain regulatory approval of such appraisals from PRC government authorities or to make equity interest transfers at the government-designated marketplaces as required for transactions completed after 2004. Similar to the assets transfer, such failure may potentially subject us to the risk of losing the ownership or control of our equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian. PRC government authorities may take court actions to invalidate the transfers of the assets or equity investments discussed above for non-compliance with applicable appraisal, filing and approval requirement. We cannot guarantee that government authorities will not take such legal actions or that such legal actions, if commenced, will not be successful. Because we depend on these technologies and because Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian constitute all of our operations, our loss of these technologies or equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian would materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. The landlord that leases us our two buildings in Beijing has not yet obtained ownership certificates for the buildings. We may face the risk that PRC government authorities or third-parties may challenge or invalidate the landlord’s ownership of the two buildings. In August 2004, we signed two 20-year leases in Beijing with China Bioway Biotech Group Co., Ltd., pursuant to which we leased two buildings of approximately 28,000 and 13,300 square feet, respectively, located at the Peking University Biological Park. We house our Anflu manufacturing and R&D center in these buildings. China Bioway has yet to obtain building ownership certificates for the two building. Under the two leases, China Bioway agreed to hold us harmless and indemnify us for any damages or losses we may suffer as a result of its failure to obtain building ownership certificates. China Bioway also pledged its land use certificate relating to these two leases to a commercial lender in October 2002 for 5 years. In June 2006, China Bioway guaranteed to us in writing that we have all the legal rights and 10 privileges to use the two buildings as agreed to in the two leases and that it will indemnify us any losses or damages that could be incurred if our rights and privileges to use such buildings are impeded or hampered by the commercial lender. We cannot guarantee that China Bioway will ever be able to obtain the necessary building ownership certificates or that PRC government authorities or third-parties will not challenge or invalidate China Bioway’s ownership even if it does obtain such ownership certificates. If that happens, we may need to vacate our existing facilities and build alternative facilities, causing material and adverse disruptions to our business operations. In 2006, China Bioway has obtained the approval certificate for the design of mentioned buildings. It will take several months for the ownership certificate to be issued according to related process within China regulatory agency. At the same time, China Bioway has issued a consent letter to guarantee that there wouldn’t be risk incurred to Sinovac Beijing for not having ownership certificate. We became a public company through our acquisition of a public shell company, where we were the accounting acquirer and assumed all known and unknown potential liabilities of our predecessor entity. Our share exchange with Net-Force Systems Inc. was accounted for as a reverse merger in which Sinovac Beijing was deemed the accounting acquirer and Net-Force, which was originally incorporated in 1999, was the legal acquirer. Although we have disposed of all the assets and liabilities of Net Force to a company controlled by its then president and CEO, we cannot guarantee that we will not liable for any liabilities related to the conduct by Net-Force of its on-line gaming business prior to its acquisition by us. We could be subject to costly and time-consuming product liability actions. We manufacture vaccines that are injected into vaccinees to protect against infectious illnesses. A failure of our products to function as anticipated, whether as a result of the design of these products, unanticipated health consequences or side effects, or misuse or mishandling by third parties of such products or because of faulty or contaminated supplies, could result in injury and as a result subject us to product liability lawsuits. Claims also could be based on failure to immunize as anticipated. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could have a material adverse effect on us. Even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming, expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our core business or result in associated negative publicity. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of biopharmaceutical products. Although we carry regular product liability insurance for Healive (we have yet to purchase product liability insurance for Bilive or Anflu), we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at a reasonable cost. In addition, we have no clinical trial liability insurance for our clinical trials because such coverage is not available in mainland China. Any insurance coverage we do have may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business will be materially harmed. We are a small company with 252 full-time employees as of December 31, 2006, and we depend to a great extent on principal members of our management and scientific staff. If we lose the services of any key personnel, in particular, Mr. Weidong Yin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, it could significantly impede the achievement of our research and development objectives and delay our product development programs and the approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We do not currently have any key man life insurance policies. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers under which they have agreed to restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation. The employment agreements do not ensure that we may be able to retain the services of our executive officers for an indefinite period of time in the future. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, tec hnical and managerial personnel and research partners will be critical to our success. Competition among biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for qualified employees in China is intense and turnover rates are high. There is currently a shortage of employees in China with expertise in our areas of research and clinical and regulatory affairs, and this shortage is likely to continue. We may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we fail to hire and retain personnel in key positions, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced a period of rapid and substantial growth that has placed and, if such growth continues, will continue to place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to manage this growth 11 effectively, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hiring programs. We may not be able to successfully implement these required improvements. Risks Related to Government Regulation We can only sell products that have received regulatory approval and many factors affect our ability to obtain such approvals. Pre-clinical and clinical trials of our products, and the manufacturing and marketing of our technologies, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the PRC and in other countries. Even if we complete preclinical and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain applicable regulatory approvals. We cannot market any product candidate until we have both completed our clinical trials and obtained the necessary regulatory approvals for that product candidate. Conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals are uncertain, time consuming and expensive processes. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals from the China State Food and Drug Administration, or the China SFDA, and other regulatory authorities often takes many years to complete and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates. For example, it took us approximately ten years to develop and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize Healive, and it took us 5.5 years and 4.5 years, respectively, to develop and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize Bilive and Anflu. There can be no assurance that all of the clinical trials pertaining to our vaccines in development will be completed within the time frames anticipated by us. We could encounter difficulties in enrolling vaccinees for trials or encounter setbacks during the conduct of trials that result in delays or trial cancellation. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and failure to observe regulatory requirements or inadequate manufacturing processes are examples of other problems that could prevent approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections in the event of additional government regulations from future legislation, administrative action or changes in the China SFDA’s policy or if unforeseen health risks become an issue with the participants of clinical trials. Clinical trials may also fail at any stage of testing. Results of early trials frequently do not predict results of later trials, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated. For these reasons, we do not know whether regulatory authorities will grant approval for any of our product candidates in the future. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is also lengthy, expensive and uncertain for products that have been developed by others but which we work to market and sell in China. For example, LG Life Sciences Ltd. granted us a five-year exclusive right to market and distribute its hepatitis B vaccine in mainland China, subject to our ability to obtain the required regulatory approvals for this product by February 2009. Under the agreement with LG Life Sciences, we have a limited period of time to obtain those approvals before it may terminate the agreement. It may take several years or more to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to be able to market and distribute LG Life Sciences’ hepatitis B vaccine in mainland China, if we are able to obtain such regulatory approvals at all. Delays in obtaining the China SFDA’s or foreign approvals of our products could result in substantial additional costs and adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Even if regulatory approval is ultimately granted, there can be no assurance that we can maintain the approval or that the approval will not be withdrawn. Any approval received may also restrict the intended use and marketing of the product we want to commercialize. Outside the PRC, our ability to market any of our potential products is contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the China SFDA approval process described above and may include additional risks. If we are unable to enroll sufficient vaccinees and identify clinical investigators to complete our clinical trials, our development programs such as pandemic influenza vaccine and Japanese encephalitis could be delayed or terminated. The rate of completion of our clinical trials, and those of our collaborators, is significantly dependent upon the rate of enrollment of vaccinees and clinical investigators. Vaccinee enrollment is a function of many factors, including: efforts of the sponsor and clinical sites involved to facilitate timely enrollment; 12 vaccinee referral practices of physicians; design of the protocol; eligibility criteria for the study in question; perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; the size of the vaccinee population; availability of competing therapies; availability of clinical trial sites; and proximity of and access by vaccinees to clinical sites. We may have difficulty obtaining sufficient vaccinee enrollment or clinician participation to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we may need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations may lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. A setback in any of our clinical trials would likely cause a decline in the price of our common shares. We recently completed phase I clinical trials of a vaccine against the H5N1 strain of pandemic influenza in collaboration with the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention, or China CDC, in June 2006. The preliminary results of phase I clinical trial showed good immunogenicity, with a sero-positive rate exceeding the criteria for assessment of vaccines established by Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products of the European Union. We have made application for authorization from the China SFDA to begin our phase II trial. We are also developing a vaccine against Japanese encephalitis. Setbacks in any phase of the clinical development of our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and our future prospects and financial results and would likely cause a decline in the price of our common shares. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. If we fail to achieve one or more milestones as contemplated, the market price of our common shares could decline. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our anticipated timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials and other milestones. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our currently anticipated schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more milestones as contemplated, the market price of our common shares could decline. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third-parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. After we obtain approval to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, we rely on qualified research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified vaccinees and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our vaccine candidates may be delayed or prevented. 13 Because the medical conditions our vaccines are intended to prevent represent significant public health threats, we are at risk of governmental actions detrimental to our business, such as product seizure, resumed price controls and additional regulations. A pandemic or the perceived risk of a pandemic could result in China or other countries taking actions to protect their citizens that could affect our ability to control the production and sales of pandemic vaccines or otherwise impose burdensome regulations on our business. For example, an outbreak of influenza or SARS may subject our manufacturing locations to possible seizure by the Chinese government. China may also require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow our competitors to manufacture products using our proprietary technologies or may resume its price control over vaccines although such control has recently been lifted in China. We may not be able to comply with applicable good manufacturing practice requirements and other regulatory requirements, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with applicable good manufacturing practice regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as corresponding maintenance, record-keeping and documentation standards. Manufacturing facilities must be approved by governmental authorities before we can use them to commercially manufacture our products and are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including following any product approval, we may be subject to sanctions, including: fines; product recalls or seizure; injunctions; refusal of regulatory agencies to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; total or partial suspension of production; civil penalties; withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; or criminal prosecution. We deal with hazardous materials that may cause injury to others and are regulated by environmental laws that may impose significant costs and restrictions on our business. Our research and development programs and manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials and other hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to our employees or others from the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. We are also subject to PRC laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials and waste products, such as the PRC Prevention and Control of Water Pollution Law and PRC Environmental Protection Law, as well as waste-disposal standards set by the relevant governmental agencies. It is likely that China will adopt stricter pollu tion controls as the country is experiencing increasingly serious environmental pollution. Although we have passed an environmental examination of our facilities conducted by Beijing Environment Protection Bureau on our hepatitis A vaccine production line, we can not assure you that we will continue to pass similar environmental examinations in future. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or with the environmental conditions attached to our operating licenses, our operating licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to civil, criminal and administrative penalties. We may also have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Moreover, we do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy to mitigate against any risk related to environmental pollution or violation of environmental law. 14 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We try to protect the technology that we consider important to our business by filing PRC patent applications and relying on trade secret and pharmaceutical regulatory protection. We originally have several patent applications pending in the PRC relating to our SARS vaccine technology. Subsequent to this annual report, one patent has been issued and one of the patent applications was withdrawn by the Company. However, there are no other issued or any pending patent application with repect to our existing vaccine products. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that these patent applications, or any patent applications we may make in the future in respect of other products, will result in patents being issued, or that any patents issued in the future will be able to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. We have entered into confidentiality agreements (which include, in the case of employees, non-competition provisions) with many of our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology which is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is our exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. In addition, it is p ossible that third parties could independently develop proprietary information and techniques substantially similar to ours or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantive investments in competing technologies, do not have and will not develop, products that compete directly with our products despite our intellectual property rights. A third party, Shenzhen Kexing Biotech Co., Ltd. in China granted us a non-exclusive license to the trademark. This license agreement allows us to use the trademark on our biopharmaceutical products. The license agreement, which expired on December 31, 2006, has been renewed to December 31, 2011. The license agreement is non-exclusive and terminates automatically if Mr. Weidong Yin is no longer in control of Sinovac. We are planning to remove the trademark from our biopharmaceutical products since we have our separate trademarks for each of our products. If the license agreement is terminated, we may also need to change the Chinese name of Sinovac Beijing. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. For example, implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective and may be hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation could materially impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We may depend on market exclusivity for certain of our products, which will afford us less protection than patents. Assuming regulatory approvals are obtained, our ability to successfully commercialize certain drugs may depend on the availability of market exclusivity under PRC law, which provides protection for certain new products. Under the PRC’s former Regulation on the Protection of New Pharmaceuticals and Technology Transfer, new drugs were afforded exclusivity protection of six, eight or twelve years, depending on the category of the drug in question. During the protection period, the China SFDA would not accept third parties’ applications for manufacturing the drug under protection. After China joined the WTO in 2001, the PRC government amended and implemented many laws and regulations in the area of pharmaceuticals. Currently, the Drug Administration Law, Implementing Regulations on Drug Administration and Drug Registration Regulation are the primary laws and regulations governing the exclusive protection regime for new drugs. 15 The Implementing Regulations on Drug Administration provide that the China SFDA may establish a monitoring period for up to five years for a certain new drugs to monitor the safety of these products. During the monitoring period, the China SFDA will not accept third parties’ application for manufacturing or importing the same drug. The China SFDA’s regulations provide that the monitoring period shall be 3, 4 or 5 years. The China SFDA determines the availability and length of the monitoring period depending on the approval conditions of the same or similar drugs in China and in overseas markets. According to the Regulations on the Drug Registration promulgated by the China SFDA in 2005, in case there is more than one application for the same new drug pending, after the issuance of the first production license afforded with a monitoring period, the other co-pending applications should be rejected unless a clinical trial application has been approved. The period of market exclusivity under these Chinese pharmaceutical regulations is considerably shorter than the exclusivity period afforded by patent protection, which, in the case of invention patents, may last up to 20 years from the national filing date of the patent directed to the product, its use or method of manufacture. We are relying on market exclusivity under Chinese law for our vaccines products such as Healive and Bilive. The market exclusivity period for Healive is from December 8, 1999 to December 7, 2007 and that for Bilive is from January 7, 2005 to January 6, 2008. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to sell these products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Patent applications are maintained incognito until their publication 18 months from the filing date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications are filed. China, similar to many other countries, adopts the first-to-file system under which whoever first files a patent application (instead of the one who makes first actual discoveries) will be awarded patent. Even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether we have infringed upon a third-party’s patent because such third-party may have filed a patent application without our knowledge while we are still developing that product. If a third-party claims that we infring e upon its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes upon a competitor’s patent; a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and we may have to reformulate our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time-consuming. If any of these events occurs, our business will suffer and the market price of our common shares could decline. The success of our business may depend on licensing biologics from, and entering into collaboration arrangements with, third parties. We cannot be certain that our licensing or collaboration efforts will succeed or that we will realize any revenue from them. The success of our business may be, in part, dependent on our ability to enter into licensing and collaboration arrangements and to manage effectively the resulting relationships. For example, we believe our exclusive right to distribute the hepatitis B vaccine produced by LG Life Sciences in China is important to our success. We are seeking necessary approval from PRC government authorities including the China SFDA to market and sell such hepatitis B in China. We cannot assure you that LG Life Sciences will not terminate its relationship with us, or enter into relationships with third-party competitor of ours in the future. We also consider important to our business the continuous and stable supply of hepatitis B vaccines from Beijing Temple of Heaven Biological Products Co., Ltd. for our production of Bilive, our contemplated collaboration with LG Life Sciences in marketing and distributing our vaccine products in Korea and other coun tries, our cooperation with China CDC in pandemic influenza research and market exploration in Mexico with Glovax C.V. 16 Our ability to enter into agreements with commercial partners depends in part on our ability to convince them of the value of our technology and know-how. This may require substantial time and effort on our part. While we anticipate expending substantial funds and management effort, we cannot assure you that strategic relationships will result or that we will be able to negotiate additional strategic agreements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we may incur significant financial commitments to collaborators in connection with potential licenses and sponsored research agreements. In addition, we may not be able to control the areas of responsibility undertaken by our strategic partners and may be adversely affected should these partners prove unable to carry a product candidate forward to full commercialization or should they lose interest in dedicating the necessary resources toward developing any such product quickly. Third parties may terminate our licensing and other strategic arrangements if we do not perform as required under these arrangements. Generally, we expect that agreements for rights to develop technologies will require us to exercise diligence in bringing product candidates to market and may require us to make milestone and royalty payments that, in some instances, could be substantial. Our failure to exercise the required diligence or make any required milestone or royalty payments could result in the termination of the relevant license agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, these third parties may also breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities in connection with our relationships in a timely manner. If we or our partners terminate or breach any of our licenses or relationships, we: may lose our rights to develop and market our product candidates; may lose trade secret protection for our product candidates; may experience significant delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates; may not be able to obtain any other licenses on acceptable terms, if at all; and may incur liability for damages. Licensing arrangements and strategic relationships in our industry can be very complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights. Disputes may arise in the future regarding ownership rights to technology developed by or with other parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and third parties with respect to our licenses or our strategic relationships could lead to delays in the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, both of which are time-consuming and expensive. These third parties also may pursue alternative technologies or product candidates either on their own or in strategic relationships with others in direct competition with us. Any cessation or suspension of our collaborations with scientific advisors and academic institutions may increase our costs in research and development and lengthen our new vaccines development process and lower our efficiency in new products development. We work with scientific advisors and academic collaborators who assist us in our research and development efforts. We generally benefit considerably from the resources, technology and experience such academic collaboration may bring us. Any cessation or suspension of our collaborations with scientific advisors and academic institutions may increase our costs in research and development and lengthen our new vaccines development process and lower our efficiency in new products development. Risks Related to Doing Business In China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China, and all of our sales are currently made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: the extent of government involvement; 17 the level of development; the growth rate; the control of foreign exchange; the allocation of resources; an evolving regulatory system; and lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow t he pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased expenditures by hospitals and other users of our products, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Moreover, the political relationship among foreign countries and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our product export and international collaborations . This could lead to a decline in our profitability in the future. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations and enforcement policies in China, including those regulating our business, are evolving and subject to future change. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also increase our operating costs. Compliance with such requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practice. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement acti vity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market price of our common shares. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our common shares. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. If they are unable to pay us sufficient dividends due to the statutory or contractual restrictions on their abilities to distribute dividends to us, our various cash needs may not be met. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends paid by our majority-owned subsidiary, Sinovac Beijing, and wholly owned subsidiary, Tangshan Yian, for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and 18 other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. To comply with such accumulated profits requirements, Tangshan Yian is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year to contribute to its reserve fund until the accumulated balance of such reserve fund reaches 50% of the registered capital of Tangshan Yian. Tangshan Yian is also required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to its employee welfare and bonus fund, the amount of which is subject to its board of directors. Sinovac Beijing is required to set aside, at the discretion of its board of directors, a portion of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee welfare and bonus funds. These funds are not distributable in cash dividends. In addition, if Sinovac Beijing or Tangshan Yian incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict either company’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared by our subsidiaries. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, both Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take future measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign currency is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, the amount is not allowed to exceed the difference between the amount of total investment and the amount of the registered capital as approved by the Ministry of Commerce and registered with the SAFE. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must first be approved by the relevant government approval authority. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted initially in an approximately 2.0% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has continued to strengthen against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common shares in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would reduce the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by significantly increasing our tax expenses. The PRC government had provided various incentives to foreign-invested companies, including Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, in order to encourage development of investment by foreigners. Such incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. Under the PRC tax laws, the average domestically-owned companies are subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 33%. Currently, Sinovac Beijing is subject to a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate until 2006 and a 15% tax rate thereafter. Tangshan Yian is subject to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 24%. On March 16, 2007, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law was enacted. Under the new law, effective on January 1, 2008, China will adopt a uniform tax 19 rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoke the current tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, a preferential tax rate of 15.0% for high and new technology enterprises and current preferential tax treatments for foreign-invested enterprises would be grandfathered for a period of five years following the effective date of the new law. We believe that our PRC subsidiary in Beijing qualifies as high and new technology enterprises entitled to the 15% preferential rate, and therefore we would not be adversely affected by the new law. However, we cannot assure you that there will not be any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our PRC operating subsidiaries or other adverse tax treatments, such as the discontinuation of preferential tax treatments, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, SAFE Notice 75, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, or “an offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring assets or equities of PRC companies. In addition, a PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company, to reflect any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over the assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share tra nsfer or liquidation, to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. SAFE Notice 75 applies retroactively to PRC residents who have established or controlled an offshore special purpose company that has made onshore investments in the PRC prior to the issuance of SAFE Notice 75, in which case such PRC residents were required to complete the registration procedures by March 31, 2006. Mr. Weidong Yin, our chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer and president and Mr. Heping Wang are subject to the above registration requirements, but only Mr. Weidong Yin has made the required SAFE registration with respect to his investments in our company. The failure of Mr. Heping Wang to make the registration, or these beneficial owners to timely amend their SAFE registrations, where required, purs uant to the SAFE Notice 75 or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Notice 75 may result in a restriction on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect our business. As it remains uncertain how SAFE Notice 75 will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how and to what extent it will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends, re-investments of profits and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC company with equity interests or assets, we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, may not be able to complete the necessary approvals, filings and registrations for the acquisition. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities. We must comply with PRC legal requirements relating to foreign debt registration and foreign-invested companies’ “registered capital” and “total investment.” “Registered capital” refers to the capital contributed to or paid into a foreign-invested company in cash, technology, land use rights or other tangible or intangible properties of value and “total investment” normally refers to the amount of such company’s registered capital plus all external borrowings by such company. The amounts of a foreign-invested company’s registered capital and total investment are set forth in the company’s constitutional documents and approved by the competent PRC government authority in advance. Change of the foreign-invested company’s registered capital and total investment in the case of Sinovac Beijing, must be approved by its minority shareholder, China Bioway. Loans by us to Sinovac Beijing or Tangshan Yian cannot exceed the difference between such company’s registered capital and total investment, unless the company has obtained the approval of the approval authority and, in Sinovac Beijing’s case, the approval of China Bioway, to increase the amount of total investment. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. 20 We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by making additional capital contributions. These additional contributions must be approved by the government approval authority and, in the case of Sinovac Beijing, by China Bioway. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals, or the approval of China Bioway, on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or additional capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or affiliates. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect the liquidity of our subsidiaries and our ability to expand our business. 