Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all of your investment. We have received notices of non-compliance from the Exchange related to the Company’s liquidity and financial impairment. On May 17, 2013 we received notice from the Exchange indicating that we did not satisfy the continued listing standards of the Exchange set forth in Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide of the Exchange (the “Company Guide”) in that we have sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to our overall operations, or our existing financial resources, or our financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the Exchange, as to whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. We were afforded an opportunity to submit our initial plan of compliance (the “Plan”) to the Exchange, and on May 31, 2013, we presented our Plan to the Exchange. On June 13, 2013, the Exchange accepted the Plan and granted us an extension until August 31, 2013 and the Exchange has granted subsequent extensions to November 30, 2013, January 31, 2014 and April 30, 2014 (the “Plan Period”). 12 During the Plan Period, we will be subject to periodic review by the staff of the Exchange. Failure by us to demonstrate progress consistent with the Plan during the Plan Period or to regain compliance by the end of the Plan Period could result in the Exchange initiating delisting proceedings. While the Exchange’s notification of non-compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) has had no current effect on the listing of our shares, failure to make progress consistent with the Plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the Plan Period could result in our shares being delisted from the Exchange. If our Common Stock, par value $0.0001 (the “Common Stock”) is delisted from the Exchange and transferred to the over-the-counter market, the spreads between the bid and ask prices for our Common Stock may increase and the execution time for orders may be longer. The delisting of our Common Stock from the Exchange may result in decreased liquidity by making the trading of our Common Stock less efficient. We have received notices of non-compliance from the Exchange related to the current composition of the Company’s board of directors and Audit Committee. On December 20, 2013, we received a notice from the Exchange indicating that we no longer satisfied the continued listing standards of the Exchange set forth in Sections 802(a) and 803(B)(2)(a) of the Company Guide. These rules require that a majority of our board of directors (the “Board”) consist of independent directors, and that the Audit Committee of the Board be comprised of at least three independent members. We received the notice in connection with the resignation of Charles Levine from the Board on December 18, 2013, and non-reelection of Phil Hickman to the Board at our annual meeting of stockholders on December 18, 2013. As a result, a majority of the directors on the Board are not independent as required under Section 802(a) of the Company Guide and our Audit Committee is no longer comprised of three independent members as required under Section 803(B)(2)(a) of the Company Guide. Pursuant to Sections 802(b) and 803(B)(6)(b) of the Company Guide, we will have until the earlier of our next annual meeting of stockholders or December 18, 2014 (such earlier date, the “Compliance Date”) to become compliant with those provisions. However, if were to hold our next annual meeting of stockholders before June 16, 2014, then the Compliance Date would instead be June 16, 2014. As from April 1, 2014 the Company appointed two new independent directors filling vacancies created following the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders in December 2013. As part of their appointment, the new directors, Mr. Stevens and Mr. Leland will join Mr. Rijkman Groenink as members of the Board’s Audit and Finance Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. While the Exchange’s notification of non-compliance with Section 802(a) and 803(B)(2)(a) has had no current effect on the listing of our shares, failure to regain compliance by the Compliance Date could result in our shares being delisted from the Exchange. If our Common Stock is delisted from the Exchange and transferred to the over-the-counter market, the spreads between the bid and ask prices for our Common Stock may increase and the execution time for orders may be longer. The delisting of our Common Stock from the Exchange may result in decreased liquidity by making the trading of our Common Stock less efficient. Furthermore, the lack of independence and independent controls over our corporate affairs may result in potential or actual conflicts of interest between our officers, directors and our stockholders, and these conflicts of interests may benefit the interests of our officers and directors over that of our minority stockholders. The Company has identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting The Company received an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 because of material weaknesses identified in management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control resulting from accounting for complex transactions associated with business combinations, complex financial instruments and income taxes. In addition to this, as of year-end, the Company’s board of directors did not have an adequate number of independent board members in order to have effective oversight of the Company’s control system. These material weaknesses, if not remediated, create an increased risk of misstatement of the Company’s financial results, which, if material, may require future restatement thereof. A failure to implement improved internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or execution, could cause the Company future delays in its reporting obligations and could have a negative effect on the Company and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” for more information on the status of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as Subsequent events (Note 33) on recent developments on the composition of the board of directors. 13 The substantial and continuing losses, and significant operating expenses incurred in the past few years, may require us to change our business plan or even may cause us to be unable to pursue all of our operational objectives if sufficient financing and/or additional cash from revenues is not realized. This raises doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred net losses of $22,131,615 and $23,131,936 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $225,391,923 and $203,260,307, respectively. Our losses are the result of our continued investment in engineering, software development and build-up of integration skills and intellectual property of our mobile platform and our fraud prevention solutions as well as increase in international market development efforts. In 2013 these investments saw the continued growth whereby the revenue contribution (revenues minus cost of service) in 2013 increased by 87% in comparison with the previous year and our adjusted ebitda (a non-gaap measure) improved from a negative $9.5 million in 2012 to a negative $2.3 million in 2013. This was due to an increased customer base and growth of existing customers. However, this has not yet resulted in positive cash flow large enough to fund our capital expenditures for the longer term and accordingly, management continues to consider financing and capital leasing options on an on-going basis. Although we have previously been able to attract financing as needed, such financing may not continue to be available at all, or if available, on reasonable terms as required. Further, the terms of such financing may be dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise on terms not favorable to us or existing shareholders. If we are unable to secure additional financing, as circumstances require, or do not succeed in meeting our sales objectives we may be required to change, significantly reduce our operations or ultimately may not be able to continue operations As a result of our historical net losses and cash flow deficits, and net capital deficiency, these conditions raise substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The current economic climate, especially in Europe, may have an adverse effect in the markets in which we operate. Much of our business is consumer driven, and to the extent there is a decline in consumer spending, we could experience a reduction in the demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues, net income and an increase in bad debts arising from non-payment of our trade receivables. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: · reduced demand for services, resulting in increased price competition or deferrals of purchases, with lower revenues not fully compensated through reduced costs; · risk of financial difficulties or failures among our suppliers; · increased demand for customer finance, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable and increased risk of counterparty failures; · risk of impairment losses related to our intangible assets as a result of lower forecasted sales of certain products; and 14 · increased difficulties in forecasting sales and financial results as well as increased volatility in our reported results; · end user demand could also be adversely affected by reduced consumer spending on technology, changed operator pricing, security breaches and trust issues. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations in Europe and to a lesser extent in the US, Middle East and the Far East. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate, obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms, or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks. We operate in a complex regulatory environment, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to a broad range of complex and evolving laws and regulations. Because of our coverage in many countries, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change from time to time. Violation of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute a breach of our client agreements, impair our ability to obtain and renew required licenses, and decrease our profitability or competitiveness. If any of these effects were to occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to integrate new technologies and provide new services in a cost-efficient manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and our software solutions and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services. We may not be able to develop and successfully market our Software DNA™ platform and security services as planned. Elephant Talk operates in an exceptionally competitive environment where there is continuous innovation and new development. We are required to be a top performer in over a dozen highly specialized domains to effectively compete with our competitors. Ongoing investments are required to stay ahead of the curve. The sales process for our Software DNA™ platform and the deployment process may be complicated and very slow. We are highly dependent on convincing MNO’s and MVNO’s to believe that outsourcing their requirements to us is the best way to go. We are exposed to business risks associated with turnkey projects and the scalability of our service and support organization. Although our policy is to avoid or minimize risks, it cannot be ruled out that in certain cases events occur that may seriously impact us and our performance. ValidSoft’s operation is dependent on mobile operators for network data access. Home-routing is sometimes preventing us from capitalizing on our capability. It tends to be a slow process to enter into definitive contracts with mobile operators. In addition, it is difficult to obtain network data access which is slowing our ability to timely address current market opportunities. The current market perception about safeguarding privacy remains challenging. Both the regulatory regime and consumer awareness of privacy protection are developing very slowly. 15 Implementation and development of our Software DNA™ platform and mobile security businesses both depend on our ability to obtain adequate funding. Both our Software DNA™ platform and ValidSoft’s mobile security services require ongoing funding to continue the current development and operations and to fund possible future acquisitions. Failure to obtain adequate financing will substantially delay our development, slow down current operations, result in loss of customers and adversely impact our results of operations. Disruptions in our networks and infrastructure may result in customer dissatisfaction, customer loss or both, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Our systems are an integral part of our customers’ business operations. It is critical for our customers, that our systems provide a continued and uninterrupted performance. Customers may be dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly and could result in decreased demand for our services. We face the following risks to our networks, infrastructure and software applications: · our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines; · Power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, earthquakes, terrorism attacks, vandalism and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and · unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business. We strive to broaden our solutions offerings as well as to increase the volume of voice and data that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. Strategic acquisitions in desired markets are an important part of our growth strategy for both our Software DNA™ platform and our mobile security business. We may pursue additional acquisitions in the future to further strengthen our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition may not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in integrating technologies and solutions, in migrating customer bases and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities. Therefore, successful integration may not occur in light of these factors. 16 Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle and strategic mobile partnership cycles with MNO’s. Both our telecommunications traffic services as well as our communications information systems, outsourced solutions and value added (communication) services, including our ValidSoft security solutions are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of mostly human capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with the allocation of substantial human resources and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s and MNO’s organization as well as financial institutions. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry, which may recur in the current economic climate, our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales and strategic mobile partnership cycle could reduce growth in our revenue in the future. In addition, the lengthening of our sales and strategic mobile partnership cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. Because most of our business is conducted outside the US, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates versus the US Dollar could adversely affect our (reported) results of operations. Currently all of our net revenue, expenses and capital expenditures are derived and incurred from sales and operations outside the US, whereas the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the US Dollar (“USD”). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country, where the Euro is the predominant currency. Considering the fact that most income and expenses are not subject to relevant exchange rate differences, it is only at a reporting level that the translation needs to be made to the reporting unit of USD. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the US, and changes in exchange rates have had and may continue to have a significant, and potentially distorting effect (either negative or positive) on the reported results of operations, not necessarily being the result of operations in real terms. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/Euro (EUR”), USD/Swiss Frank, USD/Hong Kong Dollar, USD/Chinese Yuan, USD/British pound, USD/Bahraini Dinar, and USD/Mexican peso. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions since we primarily operate in same currency countries, currently being the EUR. However, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in non-US countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies and more recently in USD. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we have accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. Although we have not engaged in hedging so far, we continue to assess on a regular basis the possible need for hedging. 17 We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our services related to communications software and information systems, outsourced solutions and value added communication services, including our fraud prevention and resolution products are highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with telecom solution providers, independent software and service providers and the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies as well as firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, land-line and mobile services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and companies that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. Also, in this more fragmented market, larger players exist with associated advantages described earlier which we need to compete against. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • the development by others of software products that are competitive with our products and services, • the price at which others offer competitive software and services, • the ability to make use of the networks of mobile network operators, • the technological changes of telecommunication operators affecting our ability to run services over their networks, • the ability of competitors to deliver projects at a level of quality that rivals our own, • the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and • the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel. A number of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties Our positioning in the marketplace as a smaller provider places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this position effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in development & engineering, critical systems and network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other systems and solutions, and train and manage our employee base. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, sales and marketing and administrative resources. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if US or foreign taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws. Our corporate structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other relevant laws of applicable non-US jurisdictions. Foreign taxing authorities may not agree with our interpretations or reach different conclusions. Our interpretations are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these foreign jurisdictions were to change or to modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our corporate structure materially impaired. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, technical sales and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We need software development specialists with in-depth knowledge of a blend of IT and telecommunications or with a blend of security and telecom. We intend to hire additional necessary employees, including software engineers, communication engineers, project managers, sales consultants, employees and operational employees, on a permanent basis. The competition for qualified technical sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications and software industry is intense in the markets where we operate, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. Volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish our use, and the value, of our equity awards as incentives to employees, putting us at a competitive disadvantage or forcing us to use more cash compensation. 18 If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property internationally. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. There is limited protection under patent law to protect the source codes we developed or acquired on our Software DNA™ Platform. The copyright and know-how protection may not be sufficient. Our pending patent application in ValidSoft’s technology may be challenged. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. The technology licensed by us may not continue to provide competitive features and functionality. Licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are dependent on two significant customers for our businesses and the loss of one of these customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had two significant customers which accounted for 48% and 15%, respectively, of our revenue. Although no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of our net sales during this period, other customers may account for more than 10% of our net sales in future periods. The loss, or reduction in services to, these significant customers or other discontinuation of their relationship with us for any reason, or if either of these significant customers reduces or postpones purchases that we expect to receive, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product defects or software errors could adversely affect our business. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions and project implementations, damage customer satisfaction and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software systems are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise during implementation or from the use of our products, and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. Our insurance coverage is not sufficient to protect against all possible liability for defects or software errors. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and the financial condition. 19 Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry could adversely affect our business, revenue or cash flow. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. As a provider of mobile communications technology for the telecommunications and financial industry, we are directly and indirectly subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Certain European, foreign, federal, and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the impact they will have on our business, revenue and cash flow. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. The market for communications information systems as well as security and fraud prevention services is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with independent software and service providers and with the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies. Our main competitors include firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, wire line and wireless services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and network equipment providers that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. We also compete with companies that provide digital commerce software and solutions. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as mobile, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional land-line services, such as mobile, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, have shown a competitive threat to our legacy land-line traffic business. If we do not continue to invest and exploit our contemplated plan of development of our communications information systems, outsourced solutions and value added communication services to meet changing market conditions, or if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively in providing technology solutions to our customers. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services into our technology platforms that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage and maintain a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet and mobile services. 20 Risks Related to Our Capital Stock We could issue additional Common Stock, which might dilute the book value of our capital stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock. Any such stock issuance could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium to the then-current trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, in order to raise future capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our Common Stock. These issuances, if any, would dilute your percentage ownership interest in the company, thereby having the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which stockholders vote. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our Common Stock. As a result, any such issuances or exercises would dilute your interest in the company and the per share book value of the Common Stock that you owned, either of which could negatively affect the trading price of our Common Stock and the value of your investment. Our board of directors has the power to designate a series of Preferred Stock without shareholder approval that could contain conversion or voting rights that adversely affect the holders of our Common Stock. . Our Certificate of Incorporation authorize the issuance of capital stock including 50,000,000 undesignated preferred shares (the “Preferred Stock”), and empower our board of directors to prescribe by resolution and without stockholder approval, subject to the rules of the Exchange, a class or series of such preferred shares, including the number of shares in the class or series and the voting powers, designations, rights, preferences, restrictions and the relative rights in each such class or series thereof. The creation and issuance of any such preferred shares could dilute your voting and ownership interest our company, the value of your investment, the trading price of our Common Stock and any cash (or other form of consideration) that you would otherwise receive upon the liquidation of the Company. If we issue additional shares of Common Stock in connection with subsequent financings, this could have a dilutive effect on your voting rights. We are authorized to issue 300,000,000 shares of capital stock, including 250,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, of which 140,466,801 shares of Common Stock and no shares of Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2013. Should we decide to finance the Company through the issuance of additional Common Stock, convertible debt or Preferred Stock, this may have a dilutive effect on your voting rights, the value of your investment and the trading price of the Common Stock. If we issue more than 20% of our outstanding Common Stock in any equity-based financing, we are required to call a special meeting of our stockholders to authorize the issuance of such additional shares before undertaking the issuance. As a result, we cannot assure you that our stockholders would authorize such issuance and we could be required to seek necessary capital in an alternative manner, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to adequately fund ourselves, through our operations or equity/debt financing, this would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our stock experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded”. Financing transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place further downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2013 there are 34,272,503 options, 37,247,889 warrants and convertible notes to purchase 9,635,838 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. All of the shares issuable from exercise have been registered and are freely traded. Options are exercisable at exercise prices between $0.60 and $3.39, warrants are exercisable at exercise prices between $0.887 and $2.21 and the convertible notes are convertible at the price of $0.887. If and when these securities are exercised into shares of our Common Stock, the number of our shares of Common Stock outstanding will increase. Such increase in our outstanding shares, and any sales of such shares, could have a material adverse effect on the market for our Common Stock and the market price of our Common Stock. 21 In addition, from time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six month holding period: (i) affiliated stockholders (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated stockholders may sell without such limitations, provided that we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one year holding period without any limitation or restriction. Any substantial sale of our Common Stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Because our executive officers, directors, their affiliates and certain principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, other stockholders’ voting power may be limited. As of December 31, 2013 Steven van der Velden, Johan Dejager, Rijkman Groenink, Martin Zuurbier, Mark Nije, and Alex Vermeulen, and certain other of our directors and executive officers, their affiliates, beneficially owned or controlled approximately 35.1% of our outstanding Common Stock. In particular, as of December 31, 2013, Rising Water Capital AG, an entity affiliated with the certain of the aforementioned individuals, beneficially owned 18.6% of our Common Stock and QAT II Investments SA, another entity affiliated with certain of our officers and directors, beneficially owned 3.6% of our outstanding stock and hold 5,095,654 warrants that upon satisfaction of various conditions can be converted into Common Stock. QAT Investments SA (“QAT”), another entity affiliated with certain of our officers and directors, is the owner of 51.3% of Rising Water Capital AG. If those stockholders act together, they will have the ability to have a substantial influence on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for shareholder approval. In addition, the ownership of such stockholders could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us, and consequently, adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. These stockholders may make decisions that are adverse to your interests We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with our Common Stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to Common Stockholders for the foreseeable future. Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 