RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to buy our Ordinary Shares. You should also consider the other information in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our Ordinary Shares to decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. 1 Business Risks If the market does not continue to respond favorably to our current anti-spam and anti-virus solutions, or our future solutions do not gain acceptance, we will fail to generate revenues. Our success depends on the continued acceptance and use of our anti-spam solutions by current and new enterprise, Original Equipment Manufacturer (“OEM”) and Internet Service Provider (“ISP”) customers and partners. We have been selling our anti-spam products for over two years and our Zero-Hour™ virus outbreak detection product for approximately one year, so our participation in the secure messaging industry is still at a relatively early stage. Market demand for anti-spam and anti-virus solutions in general appears to remain strong, and the global reach of our offerings has enabled us to become participants in licensing discussions with a number of potential OEM partners. Those of our current OEM partners that have completed the integration of our solutions into their own and begun selling them to their customers appear to be satisfied with levels of effectiveness of these solutions. However, as the market for secure messaging products matures, we expect to see continuing competitive pressures and demands for more even higher quality products at lower prices. If our solutions do not continue to evolve to meet market demand, or newer products on the market prove more effective, our business could fail. Also, if the market for anti-spam solutions fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business will suffer dramatically. Governmental regulation and legal uncertainties could impair the growth of the Internet, decrease the distribution of unsolicited bulk (spam) email and decrease demand for our anti-spam solutions or increase our cost of doing business. On December 16, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (CAN-SPAM Act), which establishes a framework of administrative, civil, and criminal tools to combat spam. The law establishes both civil and criminal prohibitions to assist in deterring the most offensive forms of spam, including unmarked sexually-oriented messages and emails containing fraudulent headers. Under the law, senders of email are required to honor a request by a consumer not to receive any further unsolicited messages. Recent high profile prosecutions of direct marketers are likely to have a deterrent effect on the future activities of these and other similar direct marketers of unsolicited email. In addition, various state legislatures have enacted laws aimed at regulating the distribution of unsolicited email. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. The adoption of additional laws or regulations, or the application of existing laws or regulations to the Internet, may impair the growth of the Internet or commercial online services. These and similar legal measures may have the effect of reducing the amount of unsolicited email that is distributed and hence diminish the need for our anti-spam solutions. Any such developments would have an adverse impact on our revenues. Dependence upon OEM partners and resellers, and product concentration. We expect to continue to be dependent upon resellers and OEM partners for a significant portion of our revenues, which will be derived from sales of our anti-spam and virus outbreak detection solutions. Also, we are still developing our distribution channels. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if: • Our limited product suite fails to remain attractive in the secure messaging market; • Anticipated orders or royalty payments from these resellers and OEM partners fail to materialize; • We are unable to locate and or sign additional OEM partners (given the limited pool of available candidates for our technology); or • Some of the key resellers or OEM partners cease the promotion of our business. 2 Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. A number of factors, many of which are enumerated in this “Risk Factors” section, are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results or cause our share price to decline. These factors include: • Our ability to successfully develop and market our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions to new markets, both domestic and international; • The continued market acceptance of our new anti-spam and anti-virus solutions; • The threat of delisting by Nasdaq; • Our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • Unanticipated bugs or other problems affecting the providing of our new anti-spam and anti-virus solutions to customers; • The success of our resellers’ and OEM partners’ sales efforts to potential customers; • The solvency of our resellers and OEM partners and their ability to allocate sufficient resources towards the marketing of our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions to their potential customers; • Our OEM partners’ ability to effectively integrate our solutions into their product offerings; • The rate of adoption of anti-spam and anti-virus solutions by customers; • Our ability to successfully develop and market new, modified or upgraded solutions, as may be needed; • The substantial decrease in information technology spending; • Pricing of our solutions; • Our ability to timely collect fees owed by resellers and OEM partners; and • The effectiveness of our customer support, whether provided by our resellers and OEM partners, or directly by Commtouch. We commenced operations in 1991. Up to 1998, we focused on selling, maintaining and servicing stand-alone email client software products for mainframe and personal computers. From 1998 through 2001, we were a provider of outsourced Web-based email services and, during the first half of 2002, we concentrated on marketing our software messaging solution. In mid-2002, we began focusing exclusively on completing development of and selling our anti-spam solutions and in late 2004 we also began marketing our anti-virus solution. These changes required that we adjust our business processes and readjust the workforce at Commtouch, which caused fluctuations in our results from operations. While during the past two years our business has been more stable and we have had recent success in particular in signing agreements with OEM partners, we remain a relatively thinly capitalized organization and, therefore, subject to future fluctuations in our results of operations if any of the enumerated risks occurs. As an example, our current and future expense levels are to a large extent fixed, so we may be unable to adjust spending quickly to compensate for any revenue shortfall caused by any of the enumerated risks described herein. Thus, any significant revenue shortfall would have an immediate negative effect on our results of operations and share price. We have many established competitors who are offering a multitude of solutions to the spam problem. The market for anti-spam solutions is intensely competitive and we expect it to be increasingly competitive. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, low operating margins and the realization of little or no market share, any of which could cause our business to suffer. In the market for anti-spam solutions, there are a large number of providers offering “content filtering” solutions (solutions focusing solely on the content of potential spam email). Other providers that offer forms of software (gateway), multi-functional appliances and managed service solutions and which may be viewed as direct competitors to Commtouch include Symantec (Brightmail), TrendMicro, McAfee, CipherTrust, IronPort, VeriSign and MessageLabs. There is a great likelihood that, as the market for anti-spam solutions further develops and given the difficult technological hurdles in attempting to create an effective solution, established Internet security players will enter the market, which may be able to leverage their market position and resources to capture a portion of the anti-spam market. 3 As this market continues to develop, a number of companies with greater resources than ours could attempt to increase their presence in this market by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors or business partners. Two such examples of this are the acquisition of Brightmail by Symantec Corp. and the Microsoft announcement of its acquisition of Sybari Software, one of our largest distributors. Competitors could introduce products with superior features, scalability and functionality at lower prices than our products and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products that discourage users from purchasing our products. In addition, because there are relatively low barriers to entry for the software market, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Also, there are companies that develop and maintain in-house anti-spam solutions, such as Microsoft and Yahoo®. These and other companies could potentially leverage their existing capabilities and relationships to enter the anti-spam industry. Our market’s level of competition is likely to increase as current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. In the future, as we expand our offerings, we may encounter increased competition in the development and distribution of these solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and may enter into strategic or commercial relationships on more favorable terms. Some of these competitors have research and development capabilities that may allow them to develop new or improved products that may compete with product lines we market and distribute. New technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressures on us, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our ability to continue to increase our revenues will depend on our ability to successfully execute our sales and business development plan. The complexity of the underlying technological base of our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions and the current landscape of the secure messaging market require highly trained sales and business development personnel to educate prospective resellers, OEM partners and customers regarding the use and benefits of our solutions. It may take time for our current and future employees, OEM partners and resellers to learn how to most effectively market our solutions. As a result, our sales and business development personnel may not be able to compete successfully against larger, more heavily financed and more experienced sales and business development departments of our competitors. We have a history of losses and may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of approximately $6.8 million in 2003, $7.2 million in 2004 and $ 2.7 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $170 million. We are participating in a relatively new market, we have not achieved profitability in any period and we might continue to incur net losses in the future. If we do not achieve profitability, our share price may decline further. Risk of Litigation. Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, regardless of their merit. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Indemnification of directors and officers. The Company has agreements with its directors and officers, subject to Israeli law, that provide for the Company to indemnify these office holders for any of the following obligations or expenses incurred as a result of an act or omission of such persons in their capacity as office holders: (a) any monetary liability imposed upon such a office holder for the benefit of a third party pursuant to a court judgment, including a settlement or an arbitrator’s decision, confirmed by a court, (b) reasonable legal costs, including attorney’s fees, expended by a office holder as a result of an investigation or proceeding instituted against the office holder by a competent authority, provided that such investigation or proceeding concludes without the filing of an indictment against the office holder and either i) no financial liability was imposed on the office holder in lieu of criminal proceedings or ii) financial liability was imposed on the office holder in lieu of criminal proceedings but the alleged criminal offense does not require proof of criminal intent, and (c) reasonable litigation expenses, including legal fees, actually incurred by such a office holder or imposed upon the office holder by a court order, in a proceeding brought against the office holder by or on behalf of the Company or by others, or in a criminal action in which he was acquitted, or in a criminal action which does not require proof of criminal intent in which he was convicted. 4 Risk due to economic conditions. Should economic conditions worsen, our ability to sell our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, even if we are successful in selling our solutions, our ability to collect outstanding receivables may be significantly impacted by liquidity issues of our resellers’ customers, OEM partners’ customers or our resellers or OEM partners themselves, which may negatively affect our ability to recognize future revenue based on sales. As a result, we may experience shortfalls in our future revenues. The loss of our key employees would adversely affect our ability to manage our business, therefore causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, including Gideon Mantel, our Chief Executive Officer and Amir Lev, our President and Chief Technical Officer, could materially and adversely affect our business. The loss of our software developers may also adversely affect our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions, therefore causing our operating results to suffer and the value of your investment to decline. We do not have employment agreements inclusive of set periods of employment with any of these key personnel. We cannot prevent them from leaving at any time. We do not maintain key-person life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our low head-count of 36 employees (as of April 1, 2006) continues to strain our operational resources, and the lack of sufficient personnel may compromise our ability to enhance revenues. Our business and operating results could suffer if we do not successfully address the risks inherent in doing business overseas. As of December 31, 2005, we had sales offices in Israel and the United States. We also are marketing our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions in international markets by utilizing appropriate distribution channels. However, we may not be able to compete effectively in international markets due to various risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • Differing technology standards; • Inability of distribution channels to successfully market our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions; • Export restrictions; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Political and economic instability; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • The adoption of new legal penalties which may discourage the distribution of unsolicited email messages; and • Limited enforcement mechanisms for protecting intellectual property rights. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s prospective international sales and, consequently, business and operating results. 5 Terrorist attacks such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001 and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets on which our Ordinary Shares trade, our financial condition and our results of operations. On September 11, 2001, the United States was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. These attacks caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. There could be further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere that could have a similar impact. The U.S. government has been actively pursuing and taking military and other action against those behind the September 11, 2001 attacks, and may initiate broader action against national and global terrorism. The U.S. recently led a coalition of forces in attacks on Afghanistan and Iraq. The worldwide ramifications of such attacks are unknown at this time. Armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism would cause further instability in financial markets and could directly impact our financial condition and our results of operations. Technology Risks We may not have the resources or skills required to adapt to the changing technological requirements and shifting preferences of our customers and their users. The anti-spam industry is characterized by difficult technological challenges, sophisticated “spammers” and constantly evolving spam practices and targets that could render our anti-spam solutions and proprietary technology ineffective. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continually enhance our existing anti-spam solutions and to develop new solutions, functions and technology that address the potential needs of prospective customers, OEM partners and their users. The development of proprietary technology and necessary enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may not be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt to customer, OEM or end user requirements or emerging industry standards. Also, we must be able to act more quickly than our competition, and may not be able to do so. Our solutions may be adversely affected by defects, which could cause our customers, OEM partners or end users to stop using our solutions. Our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions are based in part upon new and complex software. Complex software often contains defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. Although we conduct extensive testing, we may not discover software defects that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are delivered. Although we have not experienced any material software defects to date in our anti-spam and anti-virus solution offerings, it is possible that, despite testing by us, defects may exist in the software we license. These defects could cause interruptions in our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions for customers that could damage our reputation, create legal risks, cause us to lose revenue, delay market acceptance or divert our development resources, any of which could cause our business to suffer. Our solutions may be adversely affected if we are not able to receive a sufficient sampling of internet traffic Our anti-spam and anti-virus solutions are dependent, in part, on the ability of our Detection Center to analyze, in an automated fashion, live feeds of internet traffic. If we were to suffer an unanticipated, substantial decrease in such traffic, the effectiveness of our technology would drop, and our product offerings would become less attractive. Investment Risks If we will be in need of additional capital, we may not be able to secure additional funds on acceptable terms and the Company could fail. We have invested heavily in technology development. We expect to continue to spend financial and other resources on developing and introducing new offerings and maintaining our corporate organizations and strategic relationships. We also expect to invest resources in research and development projects to develop enhanced anti-spam and anti-virus solutions for enterprises and, possibly, other target markets. Although the Company has exhibited incremental improvement in its financial condition, especially during the latter half of 2005, the Company remains very thinly capitalized. As such, we might become dependent upon raising additional funds to finance our business. Our cash balance (including marketable securities) was approximately $6,486,000 at December 31, 2005. Based on the cash balance at December 31, 2005, additional funds totaling approximately $1,000,000 raised as a result of exercises of options and warrants during the first quarter of 2006, current projections of revenues, related expenses and the ability to further curtail certain discretionary expenses, the Company believes it has sufficient cash to continue operations through at least June 2007. 6 If additional funding becomes necessary and we are unable to raise those funds, the Company could fail. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise necessary funds or that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Even if available on acceptable terms, any such additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. In the past we have received funds for the development of our business from the State of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist, or the OCS. For additional information pertaining to the status of the OCS grants, see Item 10. Additional Information - “ISRAELI TAXATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS”, “Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 5744-1984”. If we cannot continue to satisfy Nasdaq’s maintenance requirements, it may delist our Ordinary Shares from its Capital Market and we may not have an active public market for our Ordinary Shares. The absence of an active trading market would likely make our Ordinary Shares an illiquid investment. Our Ordinary Shares are quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market. To continue to be listed, among other requirements, we are required to maintain shareholders’ equity of at least $2,500,000, or market value of our outstanding shares (excluding shares held by Company insiders and principal shareholders) of at least $35,000,000, or we must have realized at least $500,000 in net income from continuing operations in our last fiscal year or in two of our last three fiscal years. While as of the date of the filing of this Form 20-F we believe we meet Nasdaq’s listing requirements, we have had a history of falling out of compliance and subsequently regaining compliance. On May 10, 2004, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter indicating that Commtouch had failed to comply with the shareholders' equity, net income and market value of publicly held shares requirements for continued listing, as set forth in Nasdaq's Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(B), and that Commtouch’s securities were therefore subject to delisting from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market (since renamed “The Nasdaq Capital Market”). Commtouch appealed the Nasdaq Staff Determination and a hearing was held on June 17, 2004 before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (“Panel”) to review the Staff Determination. The Panel, in its decision of June 28, 2004, determined that the Company’s Ordinary Shares would continue to be listed on The Nasdaq SmallCap Market pursuant to an exception from the requirement that the Company maintain at least $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity. The Panel imposed several conditions to the continued availability of that exception. Commtouch met those conditions and, in June 2005, the exception was removed and Commtouch regained full compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirements. Thereafter, Commtouch temporarily fell out of compliance and, as a result of the October 2005 private placement, once again regained compliance. In addition, the Company must continue to maintain compliance with all other requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Commencing May 29, 2006, the Company also will be required to maintain a minimum $1.00 bid price per Ordinary Share. Failure to satisfy any of the foregoing conditions may result in the Company’s delisting. Also, Nasdaq may delist our Ordinary Shares if it deems it necessary to protect investors and the public interest. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to have the ability to meet the Nasdaq’s listing requirements. If our shares are delisted by the Nasdaq, trading in our shares may be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or, if available, the “OTC Bulletin Board Service.” As a result, an investor would likely find it significantly more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of, our shares. If our shares are delisted, they may become subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules and be more difficult to sell. SEC rules require brokers to provide information to purchasers of securities traded at less than $5.00 and not traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market. If our shares become “penny stock” that is not exempt from these SEC rules, these disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our shares and making it more difficult for investors to sell. The rules require a broker-dealer to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker must also give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing before or with the confirmation. The SEC rules also require a broker to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction before a transaction in a penny stock. 7 Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and could delay or prevent a change of control. Our directors and affiliates of our directors, our executive officers and our shareholders who currently individually beneficially own over five percent of the voting power in the Company (together known as “affiliated entities”), beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 32.67% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares and convertible Series A Preferred Shares (aggregated for purposes of determining voting power, on a non-converted basis) as of March 31, 2006. Included in the calculation of voting power are (i) warrants and options exercisable by the affiliated entities within 60 days thereof and (ii) additional shares resulting from the conversion of Series A Preferred Shares by such affiliated entities. If they vote together (especially if they were to convert all beneficial holdings into shares entitled to voting rights in the Company), these shareholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also delay or prevent a change in control of Commtouch. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise as a consequence of the significant shareholders control relationship with us, including: • Conflicts between significant shareholders, and our other shareholders whose interests may differ with respect to, among other things, our strategic direction or significant corporate transactions; • Conflicts related to corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us, on the one hand, or by these shareholders, on the other hand; or • Conflicts related to existing or new contractual relationships between us, on the one hand, and these shareholders, on the other hand. Substantial sales of our Ordinary Shares could adversely affect our share price; Potential dilution. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial quantities of our Ordinary Shares may have the effect of further depressing its market price. A large number of our Ordinary Shares which were previously subject to resale restrictions are currently eligible for resale under various registration statements declared effective by the SEC, including those shares that will be eligible for resale due to the exercise of warrants issued during 2005 and prior periods. The additional Ordinary Shares created by the exercise of warrants will dilute existing Ordinary shareholders. Risk of failure to honor registration rights for the 2002 through 2005 private placements. According to registration rights agreements with the selling securityholders listed under registration statements on Forms F-3 filed with the SEC on May 15, 2002, October 20, 2003, January 6, 2004, July 1, 2004, January 10, 2005, January 31, 2005 and on January 25, 2006, should the Company fail to maintain the effectiveness of those registration statements for the periods stated in the respective agreements, the Company risks having imposed on it liquidated damages as defined in those agreements. For example, one of the October 31, 2004 agreements provides for liquidated damages of up to one million additional unregistered Series A Preferred Shares. For details about the liquidated damages for the 2002 private placement, refer to Exhibit 2.8 of the Report on Form 20-F filed on April 26, 2002. For details about the liquidated damages for the July 2003 private placements, refer to the Report on Form 6-K for the month of July, filed on July 28, 2003, and for the month of August filed on August 15, 2003. For details about the liquidated damages for the January 2003 private placement, refer to Exhibit 2.9.11 of the Report on Form 20-F filed on June 18, 2004. For details about the liquidated damages for the November 2003 private placement, refer to Form 6-K for the month of November, filed December 2, 2003. For details about the liquidated damages for the May 2004 private placement, refer to Form 6-K for the month of May, filed May 19, 2004. For details about the liquidated damages for the two October 31, 2004 transactions, refer to Form 6K for the month of November, filed November 5, 2004. For details about the liquidated damages for the October 2005 private placement, refer to Form 6-K for the month of October, filed October 11, 2005. 8 Intellectual Property Risks If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for significant damages. We regard our patented and patent pending technology, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and customers to protect our proprietary rights. During 2004, we purchased a United States patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,330,590. During 2005, we filed in the United States two anti-spam related patent applications, claiming priority for prior periods based on filings of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications, and one virus outbreak detection related patent application. We may seek to patent certain additional software or other technology in the future. Any such patent applications might not result in patents issued within the scope of the claims we seek, or at all. In early 2005, we secured an exclusive marketing agreement for Distributed Checksum Clearinghouse (“DCC”) software, an anti-spam solution distributed by Rhyolite Software, LLC, and we extended this agreement for an additional year during early 2006. We are engaged in the commercial licensing of this software. If we are unable to successfully enforce our rights in this software and arrive at licensing agreements with commercial users of DCC, our business may suffer, since we will not receive DCC licensing fees that we believe we are entitled to. Despite our precautions, unauthorized third parties may copy certain portions of our technology, reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or otherwise infringe or misappropriate our patent or our patent pending technology, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may not have the proper resources in order to adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and competitors may independently develop similar technology. We cannot be certain that our software does not infringe issued patents that may relate to our anti-spam or anti-virus solutions. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications previously may have been filed which relate to our anti-spam and virus outbreak detection solutions. Therefore, other parties may assert infringement claims against us. We may also be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by ourselves and our licensees. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We may not have the proper resources in order to adequately defend against such claims. If we are unable to obtain third-party content licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. We continue to hold a perpetual mail server license which was previously utilized in our hosted email service offering, and may license other technology as the need arises. We cannot be certain that, apart from the mail server license, other third-party content licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to successfully integrate the technology into our products. These third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenues from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. The inability to obtain any of these licenses could result in delays in product development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. Any such delays could cause our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel We have important facilities and resources located in Israel, which has historically experienced severe economic instability and military and political unrest. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Although the substantial majority of our past sales were made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a state of hostility has existed between Israel and most of the Arab countries in the region. Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority began in the early 1990s, but they broke down in mid-2000. Attacks on Israel by Palestinian terrorists, and military responses by Israel, have accelerated considerably since late 2000. Any ongoing or revived hostilities and any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect our business or harm our results of operations. In addition, Israel and some companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by Arab countries since Israel’s establishment. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Certain of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency. Although Commtouch has operated effectively under these requirements since its inception, we cannot predict the effect of these obligations on Commtouch in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Because a substantial portion of our revenues historically have been generated in U.S. dollars and a portion of our expenses have been incurred in New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. We have generated a substantial portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars and incurred a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses in Israel, in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we have been exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of any devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In 2002 and for a number of years prior to 1999, the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar exceeded the rate of inflation. This trend has been reversed since the beginning of 2003. We cannot predict the trend for future years. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. Accordingly, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the NIS. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. The government programs and benefits which we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future. Prior to 1998, we received grants from the Government of Israel, through the Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. These grants totaled $0.6 million. In 1999 and 2000, we did not receive any grants from the OCS. In 2001 we received $0.6 million and in 2002 we received $0.2 million. While we submitted an application for an additional grant in 2003, we decided not to draw any funds thereunder during 2003. We did not submit an application for funding during 2004 or 2005. However, we may apply for additional grants in the future. The OCS budget has been subject to reductions which may affect the availability of funds for possible future grants. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will continue to receive grants at the same rate, or at all. In addition, the terms of any future OCS grants may be less favorable than our past grants. In order to meet specified conditions in connection with the grants and programs of the OCS, we have made representations to the Israel government about our Israeli operations. From time to time the conduct of our Israeli operations has deviated from our forecasts. If we fail to meet the conditions to grants, including the maintenance of a material presence in Israel, or if there is any material deviation from the representations made by us to the Israeli government, we could be required to refund the grants previously received (together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor) and would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. Under the Research Law, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology developed with OCS funding. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research and development, or for the licensing of the technology in the ordinary course of business. There is no assurance that we will receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: 10 • we could be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any sale of such technology to an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the know-how was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and • the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing that is foreign). These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. The tax benefits from our approved enterprise programs require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade has granted approved enterprise status to several investment programs at our manufacturing facility. The portion of our income derived from these approved enterprise programs, commencing when we begin to generate net income from these programs, will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax rate for an additional five to eight years, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes during the period in which we would have benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel and it might therefore be difficult for an investor to recover any judgment against any of our officers or directors resident in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel, and we maintain significant operations in Israel. Certain of our officers and directors named in this report reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you might not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of such persons. You might not be able to bring civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. However, we have been advised by our Israeli counsel that, subject to several limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a final judgment of a U.S. court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel. We have appointed Commtouch Inc., our U.S. subsidiary, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against us arising from this report. We have not given our consent for our agent to accept service of process in connection with any other claim and it may therefore be difficult for an investor to effect service of process against us or any of our non-U.S. officers, directors and experts relating to any other claims. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it may be payable in Israeli currency. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Commtouch, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israel tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his Ordinary Shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. 