Item 1A. Risk Factors. Business Risks Our results of operations could be adversely affected by disruptions in the marketplace caused by economic and political conditions. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients’ financial condition and the levels of business activity engaged in by our clients and the industries we serve. Clients could determine that discretionary projects are no longer viable or that new projects are not advisable. This may reduce demand for our services, depress pricing for our services or render certain services obsolete, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions or the regulatory or legislative landscape could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Although we have implemented cost management measures, if we are unable to appropriately manage costs or if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. In addition, any significant volatility or sustained decline in the market price of our common stock could impair our ability to use equity-based compensation to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may impact our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and may negatively impact our cash flow. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on us. These events could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our clients and therefore adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or cause them to terminate their contracts with us completely. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to judge our prospects. Before 2008 we were a development stage company. We have only recently commenced the provision of nuclear consulting services and currently have only one significant client in this area of our business. Similarly, our fuel design patents and technology have not been commercially used and we have not received any royalty or sales revenue. We are subject to the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development. Our inability to retain highly skilled consulting professionals could have a material adverse effect on our success. We rely heavily on our contractor staff and management team. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled professionals. Competition for these skilled professionals is intense and our inability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of consultants and managers could have a serious effect on our ability to meet client needs. A loss of a significant number of our employees could have a serious negative effect on us. Our future profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current pricing and utilization rates. Our revenue, and thereby our profitability, will be largely based on the bill rates charged to clients and the number of hours our professionals will work on client engagements, which we define as the “utilization” of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, revenues, project profit margins and our future profitability will suffer. Bill rates and utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to predict future demand for services and maintain the appropriate headcount without significant underutilized personnel, • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements, 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, • our competitors’ pricing of services, • the market demand for our services, • our ability to manage our human capital resources, and • our ability to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces as we increase the number of our professionals and execute our growth strategies. We expect that our future client engagements will generally be short term in nature, less than one year, and may be terminated. Our inability to attract business from new or then existing clients could have a material adverse effect on us. We might not meet our current or future commitments if we do not continually secure new engagements. We expect that many of our future client engagement agreements will be terminable by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. Some of our work will involve multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. We expect that our engagements will usually be relatively short term in comparison to our office-related expenses and other infrastructure commitments. Additionally, the above mentioned factors limit our ability to predict future revenues and required professional staffing, which can impact our financial results. Unsuccessful future client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our professional reputation and that of our personnel is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any client engagements that we obtain will be subject to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were negligent or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. We carry professional liability insurance, but our insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our engagements. In addition, the limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims, and the costs of defense. Our fuel designs have never been tested in an existing commercial reactor and actual fuel performance, as well as the willingness of commercial reactor operators and fuel fabricators to adopt a new design, is uncertain. Nuclear power research and development entails significant technological risk. New designs must be fabricated, tested and licensed before market opportunities will exist. Our fuel designs are still in the research and development stage and while irradiation testing in a test reactor in Russia (which mimics the operating characteristics of an actual commercial reactor) and thermal-hydraulic experiments have been ongoing for several years, the fuel technology is yet to be demonstrated in an existing commercial reactor. We will not be certain about the ability of the fuel we design to perform in actual commercial reactors until we are able to demonstrate our fuel designs. We will also have to establish a relationship with a fuel fabricator to actually produce fuel using our designs. If our fuel designs do not perform as anticipated in commercial use, we will not realize revenues from licensing or other use of our fuel designs. In addition, there are several technical challenges involved in commercializing thorium based fuels. Some of the technical challenges with our technology identified by the experts at Russian Research Centre Kurchatov Institute, an independent contractor that is closely affiliated with the government of the Russian Federation, Westinghouse Electric Company LLC, and the International Atomic Energy Agency (“IAEA”), include: 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Fuel Fabrication: The relatively high melting point of thorium oxide will require fuel pellet manufacturing techniques that are different from those currently used for uranium pellets. • Fuel Fabrication: Our metallic seed fuel rod designs are greater than 3 meters long compared to conventional Russian metallic icebreaker fuel rods that we understand are approximately 1 meter long. The longer rods will require new equipment, and experience making longer extrusions. • Fuel Design: Our “seed-and-blanket” fuel assembly design has a detachable central part which is not in conventional fuel designs. • Fuel Design: Some of our fuel designs include plutonium-zirconium fuel rods which will operate in a soluble boron environment. Current reactor operating experience is with uranium-zirconium fuel in a boron-free environment. • Fuel Use: Our fuel is expected to be capable of producing more gigawatt days per ton of fuel than is allowed by current reactor licenses, so to gain full economic benefits, reactor operators will have to obtain regulatory approval. • Fuel Use: The thorium-uranium oxide blanket section in our fuels is expected to produce energy economically for up to 9 years in the reactor core. Conventional uranium fuel demonstrates that the cladding can remain corrosion-free for up to 5 years. Testing is needed to prove corrosion resistance for the longer residence time. • Fuel Reprocessing: The IAEA has identified a number of ways that reprocessing spent thorium fuel will require technologies different from existing uranium fuel reprocessing. Management’s current marketing plans do not assume or depend on the ability to reprocess and recycle spent fuel. Management expects spent thorium fuel will go into long term storage. This is current U.S. government policy for all spent commercial nuclear fuel. Our fuel designs differ from fuels currently licensed and used by commercial nuclear power plants. As a result, the licensing and approval process for our fuels may be delayed and made more costly, and industry acceptance of our fuels may be hampered. Our fuel designs differ significantly in some aspects from the fuel licensed and used today by commercial nuclear power plants. Some of the differences between our fuels and those currently used include: • use of thorium and uranium oxide mix instead of only uranium oxide, • higher uranium enrichment level, • seed-and blanket fuel assembly design integrating thorium and uranium, • high burn-up levels of seed and blanket, • use of metallic seed rods, • longer residence time of the blanket in the reactor, and • the ability of some of our fuels to dispose of reactor-grade plutonium and/or weapons-grade plutonium through the use of new fuel designs and in reactors that have never used plutonium-bearing fresh fuels. These differences will likely result in more prolonged and extensive review by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other nuclear licensing authorities and customers. Also, the nuclear industry may be hesitant to switch to another fuel with little or no history of successful commercial use because of the need for additional engineering and testing with no guarantee of success, as well as investor reluctance to invest in a new technology when viable existing technologies are available. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our plans to develop our thorium/weapons-grade plutonium disposing fuel are dependent upon U.S. government funding and support. Without such support, we are unlikely to be able to serve this market. Our thorium/weapons-grade plutonium disposing fuel design is highly dependent upon U.S. and perhaps other government funding, and acceptance as a technology appropriate to eliminate U.S. and Russian stockpiles of surplus weapons-grade plutonium. In the past, we have faced resistance from some offices within the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that support other alternative plutonium disposing technology, particularly mixed plutonium uranium oxide (MOX) fuel designs. The Company has spent a significant amount of funds to gain commercial and market acceptance for its fuel designs. Our plans to develop our thorium-based fuel designs depend on us acquiring rights to the designs, processes and methodologies that are used or may be used in our business in the future. If we are unable to obtain such rights on reasonable terms in the future, our ability to exploit our intellectual property may be limited. Dr. Alvin Radkowsky invented the thorium fuel technology that we are developing. Upon founding Thorium Power in 1992, Dr. Radkowsky assigned all of his rights in the intellectual property relating to such fuel designs to Thorium Power, Inc. Thorium Power, Inc. then filed patent applications in the United States and other countries and the patents were issued and are held solely by our Company. We are currently conducting fuel assembly design work in Russia through the Russian Research Centre Kurchatov Institute, OKBM, MSZ Electrostal and others, that are independent contractors that are owned or are closely affiliated with the government of the Russian Federation. We do not currently have all of the necessary licensing or other rights to acquire or utilize certain designs, methodologies or processes required for the fabrication of fuel assemblies. If we desire to utilize such processes or methodologies in the future, we must obtain a license or other right to use such technologies from the Russian entities that previously developed and own such technologies. If we are unable to obtain such a license or other right on terms that the Russian entities deem to be reasonable, then we may not be able to fully exploit our intellectual property and may be hindered in the sale of products and services. We rely upon certain members of our senior management, including Seth Grae, and the loss of Mr. Grae or any of our senior management would have an adverse effect on the Company. Our success depends upon certain members of our senior management, including Seth Grae. Mr. Grae’s knowledge of the nuclear power industry, his network of key contacts within that industry and in governments and, in particular, his expertise in the potential markets for the company’s technologies, is critical to the implementation of our business model. Mr. Grae is likely to be a significant factor in our future growth and success. The loss of the service of Mr. Grae would have a material adverse effect on our Company. We do not have a key man insurance policy relating to Seth Grae or any other key individuals, and do not anticipate obtaining any such insurance. The price of fossil fuels or uranium may fall, which would reduce the interest in thorium fuel by reducing the economic advantages of utilizing thorium-based fuels and adversely affect the market prospects for our fuel designs. Coal, uranium and crude oil prices are currently at historically high levels. Management believes the high cost of these energy sources has resulted in increased interest in other sources of energy such as thorium. If prices of traditional energy sources fall, then the demand that the company expects for thorium based fuels may not materialize. A decrease in demand for thorium based fuels would negatively affect our future operating results. Our research operations are conducted primarily in Russia, making them subject to political uncertainties relating to Russia and U.S.-Russian relations. Substantially all of our present research activities are in Russia. Our research operations are subject to various political risks and uncertainties inherent in the country of Russia. If U.S.-Russia relations deteriorate, the Russian government may decide to scale back or even cease completely its cooperation with the United States on various international projects, including the plutonium disposition program and nuclear power technology development programs. If this should happen, our research and development program in Russia could 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS be scaled back or shut down, which could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to execute our business model. Furthermore, the Russian institutes engaged in the Thorium Power project are highly regulated and, in many instances, are controlled by the Russian government. The Russian government could decide that the nuclear scientists engaged in our project in Russia or testing facilities employed in this project should be redirected to other high priority national projects in the nuclear sector which could lead to delays or have other significant adverse impacts on our project. Finally, in 2007, the Russian Agency for Atomic Energy (RosAtom), the main Russian government agency overseeing and regulating Russia’s nuclear complex, initiated a major restructuring of Russia’s nuclear power industry. As a result of this restructuring, some of the nuclear research institutes are being merged into a new vertically integrated holding company AtomEnergoProm (AEP). Originally, the restructuring effort was expected to be completed by the end of 2007, but the schedule has slipped and the restructuring is still ongoing. As part of restructuring, some nuclear research institutes have seen, or expect to see, new management come in. The ongoing restructuring process within Russia’s nuclear power industry may add to timelines required to negotiate and enter into acceptable agreements for the full scope of work that needs to be completed over the next several years, in preparation for demonstration of our fuel technology in a full-size commercial reactor, which adds to the risk of uncertainty associated with the projected timelines for the start of such demonstration activities. We serve the nuclear power industry, which is highly regulated. The nuclear power industry is a highly regulated industry. We intend to license our fuel designs to nuclear fuel fabricators, which would in turn, sell the thorium-based nuclear fuel that would be fabricated using our intellectual property to nuclear generating companies. All nuclear companies are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or its foreign equivalents, with respect to the operation of nuclear reactors, fuel cycle facilities, and handling of nuclear materials and technologies. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and its foreign equivalents, subject nuclear facilities to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, and security, as well as the environmental and radiological aspects of those facilities. These nuclear regulatory bodies may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations such as the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act, or the terms of such licenses. Possession and use of nuclear materials, including thorium-based nuclear fuel, would require the approval of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its counterparts around the world, and would be subject to monitoring by international agencies. Public opposition to nuclear power could increase. Successful execution of our business model is dependent upon public support for nuclear power in the United States and other countries. Nuclear power faces strong opposition from certain competitive energy sources, individuals and organizations. The occurrence of another major, Chernobyl-like nuclear accident could have a significant adverse effect on public opinion about nuclear power and the favorable regulatory climate needed to introduce new nuclear technologies. Strong public opposition could hinder the construction of new nuclear power plants and lead to early shut-down of the existing nuclear power plants. Furthermore, nuclear fuel fabrication and the use of new nuclear fuels in reactors must be licensed by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and equivalent foreign governmental authorities. The licensing process includes public hearings in which opponents of the use of nuclear power might be able to cause the issuance of required licenses to be delayed or denied. In fact, since the Chernobyl nuclear accident, no new nuclear power plant has been built and opened in the United States. Modifications to existing nuclear fuel cycle infrastructure as well as reactors may prove too extensive or costly. The existing nuclear fuel cycle infrastructure is predominantly based on low-enrichment uranium oxide fuels. Introduction of thorium based fuel designs, which require relatively higher enriched uranium or plutonium as a source of reactivity into the existing nuclear fuel cycle supply chain, would necessitate certain changes to procedures, processes and equipment used by existing nuclear fuel fabrication facilities, and nuclear fuel transportation companies. In addition, our nuclear fuel designs rely on fabrication technologies that in certain material ways are different from the fabrication techniques presently utilized by existing commercial fuel fabricators. In particular, our metallic seed rods must be produced using a co-extrusion fabrication 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS process that was developed in Russia. Presently, most commercial nuclear fuel is produced using a pellet fabrication technology, whereby uranium oxide is packed into small pellets that are stacked and sealed inside metallic tubes. The co-extrusion fabrication technology involves extrusion of a single-piece solid fuel rod from a metallic matrix containing uranium or plutonium seed fuel. While we understand that the co-extrusion fabrication process has been successfully used in Russia for decades to produce one-meter long metallic nuclear fuel rods used in nuclear reactors that propel Russian icebreakers, it must be upgraded and tested to demonstrate its ability to produce longer metallic rods (approximately 3.5-meters long for Russian VVER-1000 reactors), so that our seed fuel can be consistent with the standard length of fuel rods used in existing commercial reactors. Full-size metallic fuel rods have not yet been produced using this fabrication process, and there are no guarantees that this new fabrication technology will be successful. Deployment of our nuclear fuel designs into existing commercial reactors may require modifications to existing equipment, refueling and fuel handling procedures, and other processes utilized at existing nuclear power plants. The costs of such modifications are difficult to ascertain. While one of our goals is to make our fuel designs as compatible as possible with the design of existing commercial reactors in order to minimize the extent and cost of modifications that may be required, we may not be able to achieve compatibility sufficient to reduce the extent and costs of required modifications, to make our fuel designs economical for reactor operations. Our nuclear fuel process is dependent on outside suppliers of nuclear and other materials. Production of fuel assemblies using our nuclear fuel designs is dependent on the ability of fuel fabricators to obtain supplies of thorium oxide for the “blanket” component of our fuel assembly design. Fabricators will also need to obtain metal for components, particularly zirconium. These materials are regulated and can be difficult to obtain or may have unfavorable pricing terms. The inability of fabricators to obtain these materials could have a material adverse effect on their ability to market fuel based on our technology. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, particularly in light of Russian intellectual property laws. Intellectual property rights are evolving in Russia, trending towards international norms, but are by no means fully developed. We work closely with the Kurchatov Institute and other Russian institutes to develop some of our intellectual property and so some of our intellectual property rights derive, or are affected by, Russian intellectual property laws. If the application of these laws to our intellectual property rights proves inadequate, then the Company may not be able to fully avail itself of our intellectual property and our business model may therefore be impeded. We may not be able to receive or retain authorizations that may be required for us to sell our services, or license our technology internationally. The sales and marketing of our services and technology internationally may also be subject to US export controls administered by the US Department of Energy, and/or the US Department of Commerce. US governmental authorizations may be required before we can export our services or technology. These controls are subject to change and a number of US governmental licensing policies. If authorizations are required and not granted, our international business plans could be materially affected. Furthermore, the export authorization process is often time-consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our revenue growth opportunities and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Securities There may be volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect investments, and stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the value they originally purchased such shares. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • quarterly variations in operating results, • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, • changes in market valuations of other similar companies, • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, receipt of (or failure to obtain) government funding or support, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures, • additions or departures of key personnel, • any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts, or any reduction in political support from levels expected by securities analysts, • future sales of common stock, and • results of analyses of mining and resources assets. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of its performance. Because our securities trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, the ability to sell shares in the secondary market may be limited. The shares of our common stock are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Because our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, it is subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell securities governed by these rules to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual individual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 jointly with their spouses). For such transactions, the broker-dealer must determine whether persons that are not established customers or accredited investors qualify under the rule for purchasing such securities and must receive that person’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, these rules may adversely affect the ability of purchasers to sell our securities and otherwise affect the trading market in our securities. Because our shares are deemed “penny stocks,” there may be difficulty selling them in the secondary trading market. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations, which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in the regulations) less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As our common stock falls within the definition of penny stock, these regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving our common stock, of a risk disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Disclosure is also required to be made about compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, and current quotations for the securities. In addition, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. The ability of broker/dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market would be limited. As a result, the market liquidity for our common stock would be severely and adversely affected. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 