RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to buy our Ordinary Shares. You should also consider the other information in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our Ordinary Shares to decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Business Risks If the market does not continue to respond favorably to our current Internet security solutions, including our anti-spam, Zero-Hour antivirus, Mail Reputation, Command Antivirus and Uniform Resource Locator or URL filtering solutions, or our future solutions do not gain acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenues. Our success depends on the continued acceptance and use of our Internet security solutions by current and new business, Original Equipment Manufacturer or OEM, and Service Provider customers. We have been selling our inbound anti-spam products (as a stand-alone product) for over seven years, Zero-Hour™ virus outbreak detection product for approximately six years, our GlobalView™ Mail Reputation perimeter defense solution for approximately five years, our URL filtering solutions for over one year, our outbound spam solution for slightly less than a year and the newly acquired Command Antivirus solution for over half a year. As the markets for messaging, antivirus and Web security products continue to mature and consolidate, we are seeing increasing competitive pressures and demands for even higher quality products at lower prices. This increasing demand comes at a time when Internet security threats are more varied and intensive, challenging even the top end solutions to keep their performance at an industry acceptable high level of accuracy. If our solutions do not continue to evolve to meet market demand, or newer products on the market prove more effective, our business could fail. Also, if growth in the markets for these solutions begins to slow, our business will suffer dramatically. If we are unable to successfully integrate the Command Antivirus business unit of Authentium, Inc., there could be a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. On September 3, 2010, we acquired certain assets comprising the Command Antivirus business unit of Authentium, Inc. (now known as SafeCentral, Inc.). In particular, we: · received assignments to a number of license agreements under which we provide antivirus services to new customers and generate substantial revenues; · are expected to continue to receive certain support services from SafeCentral through the end of 2011; and · hired thirteen new employees and four new contractors formerly employed by Authentium, who are vital for the successful operation of the new antivirus business. While the integration to date has been successful, nevertheless our business will suffer significantly if ● a number of the new customers that we are servicing decide not to renew their agreements or fail to honor the current agreements, 2 ● SafeCentral fails to support this new business before we are able to fully move all facets of the operation in-house, ● a number of the new employees and contractors decide to seek alternative employment, or ● we otherwise fail to integrate the Command Antivirus unit. Recurring unfavorable national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. It is not yet clear if the crisis in the financial and credit markets that began in 2008 in the United States, and that led to a global economic slowdown, has passed completely. If the economies of countries in which our customers and potential customers are located continue to be weak or weaken further, our customers may reduce or postpone their spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our services and longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our OEM partners, distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. While our OEM business generally remained stable during 2010, we did see instances of financial weakness with a few non-key OEM partners. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets do not continue to improve, or revert to a recessionary state, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted in a material way. Tighter governmental enforcement of regulations could decrease the distribution of unsolicited bulk (spam) email and malicious software and decrease demand for our solutions, or increase our cost of doing business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (CAN-SPAM Act) established a framework of U.S. administrative, civil, and criminal tools to combat spam. The law establishes both civil and criminal prohibitions to assist in deterring the most offensive forms of spam, including unmarked sexually-oriented messages and emails containing fraudulent headers. Under the law, senders of email are required to honor a request by a consumer not to receive any further unsolicited messages. While past high profile prosecutions of direct marketers seemingly have not had much of a deterrent effect on marketers of unsolicited email, it is not known whether or not future enforcement actions will prove effective. In addition, various state legislatures have enacted laws aimed at regulating the distribution of unsolicited email. These and similar legal measures, both in the United States and worldwide, may have the effect of reducing the amount of unsolicited email and malicious software that is distributed and hence diminish the need for our Internet security solutions. Any such developments would have an adverse impact on our revenues. We depend upon OEM partners, Service Providers and, to a lesser extent, resellers. We expect to continue to be dependent upon OEM partners, Service Providers and resellers for a significant portion of our revenues, which will be derived from sales of our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if: • Anticipated orders or payments from these customers fail to materialize; • Some of the key customers cease the promotion of our business or begin to promote additional solutions in a layered approach to email defense, anti-malware and URL filtering management; or • Some of our key customers’ businesses fail as a result of a deepening global economic crisis. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. A number of factors, many of which are enumerated in this “Risk Factors” section, are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results or cause our share price to decline. These factors include: 3 • Our ability to successfully market our messaging, antivirus and Web security solutions in new markets, both domestic and international; • Our ability to successfully develop and market new, modified or upgraded solutions, as may be needed; • The continued acceptance of our solutions by our current customer base; • Our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • Unanticipated bugs or other problems affecting the delivery of our solutions to customers; • The success of our customers’ sales efforts to their customer base; • The solvency of our customers and their ability to allocate sufficient resources towards the marketing of our solutions; • Our customers’ ability to effectively integrate our solutions into their product offerings; • The substantial decrease in information technology spending; • The pricing of our solutions; • Our ability to timely collect fees owed by our customers; • A renewed global slowdown; • Sudden, dramatic fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies covering the fees we collect from our foreign customers versus the currencies utilized in our business (namely, the New Israeli Shekel, U.S. Dollar and EURO); • Our ability to add cost-effective space and equipment to our current detection centers, or Detection Centers, in a timely and effective manner to match the rate of growth in our business, plus our ability to build new, cost-effective detection centers as worldwide demand for our products may require; and • The effectiveness of our end user support, whether provided by our customers or directly by Commtouch. Our products and services have changed many times since we commenced operations in 1991. For example, in September 2010, we acquired the Command Antivirus unit of Authentium, and have been integrating this new business into our existing business. Future changes in our product offerings may require that we adjust our business processes and workforce, which can cause fluctuations in our results from operations. We have many established competitors who are offering a multitude of solutions to the problems of spam/virus distribution and Web-related security threats. The market for Internet security products remains intensely competitive and is subject to rapid changes in technology. We expect both product and pricing competitive pressures to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger technical staffs and/or greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and other advantages compared to us. This competition could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Additional details are provided in 