Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. We have substantial debt and significant interest payment requirements, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, to finance our operations and to react to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of debt. The following table shows certain important credit statistics about us. As of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands) Total debt. $ 2,805,722 Stockholders’ equity. 445,703 Debt to equity ratio. 6.3x Our high level of combined debt could have important consequences for you, including the following: · Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital or other purposes may be limited; · We will need to use a large portion of our revenues to pay interest on our borrowings, which will reduce the amount of money available to fund our operations, capital expenditures and other activities; · Some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and · Our indebtedness may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our 50% stake in Insight Midwest constitutes substantially all of our operating assets, and our sole business is the management of Insight Midwest’s cable television systems. We may be forced to liquidate Insight Midwest before our 12¼% senior discount notes mature. Although our financial statements consolidate the results of Insight Midwest, we own only 50% of the outstanding partnership interests in Insight Midwest. The other 50% of Insight Midwest is owned by an indirect subsidiary of Comcast Corporation, an entity over which we have no control. As a result, although our financial statements include 100% of the revenues of Insight Midwest, we are only entitled to share in the results and assets of Insight Midwest to the extent of our partnership interest. Insight Midwest accounted for substantially all of our 2006 revenues. Our 50% interest in Insight Midwest constitutes substantially all of our operating assets. The only cash we receive directly from Insight Midwest is a management fee of 3% based on revenues of the cable television systems and reimbursement of expenses. The Insight Midwest partnership agreement provides that either Comcast Cable or Insight LP (our wholly-owned subsidiary that owns our 50% interest in Insight Midwest) has the right to cause a split-up of Insight Midwest. To date, neither partner has commenced the split-up process. The split-up would reduce the cash flow from operations that we need to repay our debt, and could require us to make a change of control offer which we may be unable to finance. 27 We depend upon our operating subsidiaries for cash to fund our obligations. Our investments in our operating subsidiaries, including Insight Midwest, constitute substantially all of our operating assets. Consequently, our subsidiaries conduct all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The only source of the cash we have to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations and their borrowings. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will generate cash flow from operations in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. The terms of the Insight Midwest Holdings credit facility and any inability to refinance any borrowings under such facility may limit our ability to access the cash flow of our subsidiaries. Insight Midwest’s ability to receive cash from its subsidiaries is restricted by the terms of the Insight Midwest Holdings credit facility. Insight Midwest Holdings’ credit facility permits it to distribute cash to Insight Midwest, subject to certain limitations, provided that there is no default under such credit facility. If there is a default under the Insight Midwest Holdings credit facility, Insight Midwest would not have any cash to pay interest on its obligations. Cash interest on our 12¼% senior discount notes began to accrue on February 15, 2006, and cash interest on the 12¼% notes became payable semiannually in arrears beginning on August 15, 2006. Even if Insight Midwest receives funds from its subsidiaries, there can be no assurance that Insight Midwest can or would distribute cash to us to make payments on our outstanding 12¼% notes due to restrictions imposed by the indentures governing Insight Midwest’s outstanding senior notes and the Insight Midwest partnership agreement. The indentures governing Insight Midwest’s outstanding 9¾% senior notes limit Insight Midwest’s ability to distribute cash to us for any purpose. Furthermore, because we only own a 50% equity interest in Insight Midwest, the Insight Midwest partnership agreement provides that Insight Midwest may not pay dividends or make other distributions to us without the consent of our partner, Comcast Cable. As a result, even if the creditors of Insight Midwest and its subsidiaries were to permit distributions to us, Comcast Cable could prohibit any such distribution. As a result, if we are unable to refinance the indebtedness of Insight Midwest and its subsidiaries on terms that provide Insight Midwest with a greater ability to provide us with funds, we may not be able to make payments required under the 12¼% senior discount notes. The Insight Midwest Holdings credit facility requires us to comply with various financial and operating restrictions which could limit our ability to compete as well as our ability to expand. The Insight Midwest Holdings credit facility contains covenants that restrict Insight Midwest Holdings and its subsidiaries’ ability to: · distribute funds or pay dividends to Insight Midwest; · incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity; · repurchase or redeem equity interests and indebtedness; · pledge or sell assets or merge with another entity; · create liens; and · make certain capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions. Such restrictions could limit our ability to compete as well as our ability to expand. The ability of Insight Midwest Holdings’ subsidiaries to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond 28 our control. If they were to breach any of these covenants, they would be in default under the credit facility and they would be prohibited from making distributions to Insight Midwest. We have a history of net losses, and may not be profitable in the future. We have a history of net losses and expect to incur additional net losses in the future. We incurred a net loss before accruals of preferred interests of $42.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, $13.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, $84.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $36.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We have and will continue to have a substantial amount of interest expense in respect of debt incurred and depreciation expense relating to acquisitions of cable systems as well as expansion and upgrade programs. Such expenses have contributed to the net losses we experienced. Our programming costs are substantial and they may increase, which could result in a decrease in profitability if we are unable to pass that increase on to our customers. In recent years, the cable and satellite video industries have experienced an escalation in the cost of programming, and sports programming in particular. Our cable programming services are dependent upon our ability to procure programming that is attractive to our customers at reasonable rates. Programming costs will continue to escalate, and we may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our customers. We expect to be subject to increasing financial demands by broadcasters to obtain consent to retransmit their programming in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by further increases in programming costs. Programming has been and is expected to continue to be our largest single expense item and accounted for approximately 37% of the total programming and other operating costs and selling, general and administrative expenses for our systems for the year ended December 31, 2006. Because of our relationship with Comcast Cable, we currently have the right to purchase certain programming services for our systems directly through Comcast Cable’s programming supplier Satellite Services, Inc. In addition, under the terms of Insight Midwest’s partnership agreement, we and Comcast Cable are each required to use commercially reasonable efforts to extend to Insight Midwest all of the programming discounts available to us. If a split-up of the Insight Midwest partnership were to occur, we may no longer be able to benefit from the favorable programming costs available through Comcast Cable. The competition we face from other cable networks and alternative service providers may cause us to lose market share. The impact from competition, particularly from direct broadcast satellite television systems and companies that overbuild in our market areas, has resulted in a decrease in customer growth rates as well as a loss of customers. This growing competition has negatively impacted our financial performance. Increased competition may continue to impact our financial performance. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and we cannot predict the market share our competitors will eventually achieve, nor can we predict their ability to develop products which will compete with our planned new and enhanced products and services such as high-speed Internet access, video-on-demand and telephone services. Direct broadcast satellite service consists of television programming transmitted via high-powered satellites to individual homes, each served by a small satellite dish. Legislation permitting direct broadcast satellite operators to transmit local broadcast signals was enacted on November 29, 1999. This eliminated a significant competitive advantage that cable system operators have had over direct broadcast satellite operators. Direct broadcast satellite operators currently deliver local broadcast signals in the largest markets and continue to expand such carriage to additional markets. Moreover, both major direct 29 broadcast satellite operators announced in early 2007 the planned addition this year of a number of high definition programming services and in the case of DirecTV, a significant number of such channels. The 1996 Telecom Act contains provisions designed to encourage local exchange telephone companies and others to provide a wide variety of video services competitive with services provided by cable systems. Local exchange telephone companies in various states have either announced plans, obtained local franchise authorizations or are currently competing with our cable communications systems. Certain telephone companies are deploying fiber more extensively in their networks and are deploying broadband services, including video programming services, using a switched Internet protocol platform or other technologies in some cases designed to avoid the same regulatory burdens imposed on our business. The FCC’s new rules permitting such telephone companies to obtain local franchises on an expedited basis as well as any ability of local telephone companies to provide their services without obtaining state or local cable franchises comparable to those under which we operate would be adverse to our business. Since our cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises, competing operators of cable systems and other potential competitors, such as municipalities and municipal utility providers, may be granted franchises to build cable systems in markets where we hold franchises. Competition in geographic areas where a secondary franchise is obtained and a cable network is constructed is called “overbuilding.” WideOpenWest overbuilds our Evansville, Indiana system and our Columbus, Ohio system. We cannot predict what effect competition from these or future competitors will have on our business and operations. We face competition from providers of alternatives to our Internet and telephone services. Several telephone companies are offering digital subscriber line technology (also known as DSL services), which allows Internet access over traditional phone lines at data transmission speeds greater than those available by a standard telephone modem. Although these transmission speeds generally have not been as fast as the transmission speeds of a cable modem, coupled with its discounted pricing, we believe that the transmission speeds of digital subscriber line technology are sufficiently high that such technology is competitive to our cable modem technology. As we continue to expand our offerings to include telephone services in additional markets, the telephone services we deliver will be subject to competition from existing providers, including both local exchange telephone companies and long-distance carriers as well as competing providers using alternative technologies such as wireless and voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”). We cannot predict the extent to which the presence of these competitors will influence customer penetration in our telephone service areas. We expect that the most significant competitors for our Internet access and telephone service offerings will be the existing local exchange telephone companies (currently the predominant providers of Internet and telephone services in our markets), as well as resellers using the local exchange telephone companies’ networks, although the FCC no longer requires facilities-based wireline Internet access service providers to unbundle and resell DSL services as a stand alone product. Our business has been and continues to be subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, and changes in this legislation and regulation could increase our costs of compliance and reduce the profitability of our business. The cable television industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Operating in a regulated industry increases the cost of doing business generally. We may also become subject to additional regulatory burdens and related increased costs. As we continue to introduce additional communications services, we may be required to obtain federal, state and local licenses or other authorizations to offer such 30 services. We may not be able to obtain such licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses and authorizations that may not be favorable to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 