ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly. We have experienced significant growth in recent years We have grown significantly in recent years, and we intend to continue to expand operations and asset size. Our total assets, consisting primarily of loans and investments, have increased at an average annual growth rate of 24.58% for the last five fiscal years, to $17.15 billion at December 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain this rate of growth in the future. Moreover, we are continually exploring other avenues of growth, including the possible acquisition of assets and deposits from other financial institutions as well as acquisitions of other banks, either in Puerto Rico or outside of Puerto Rico. Westernbank is subject to default risk in its loan portfolio Westernbank is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans it originates or acquires. Westernbank establishes provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in its income from operations, in order to maintain its allowance for future loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by its management based upon an assessment of the quality of its loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. Although Westernbank’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that Westernbank will not have to increase its provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in Westernbank’s provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of its provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Westernbank is exposed to commercial and consumer credit risks In recent years, Westernbank has emphasized commercial and consumer lending activities. Commercial lending, including commercial real estate and asset-based lending, unsecured business lending and construction lending, is generally recognized as involving greater credit risk because it is larger in size and more risk is concentrated in a single borrower. In addition, the borrower’s ability to repay a commercial loan or a construction loan depends, in the case of a commercial loan, on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan and, in the case of a construction loan, on the successful completion and sale or operation of the project. The properties or assets securing these loans may also be harder to dispose of in foreclosure. We have expanded our consumer lending activities through our Expresso of Westernbank Division. These loans generally have a higher credit risk when compared to the rest of Westernbank’s consumer loan portfolio, since the Expresso Division principally targets the typical small consumer loan customers that are usually low income earners. Therefore, delinquencies in the Expresso of Westernbank division tend to be higher when compared to the total consumer loan portfolio in general. Consumer loans are subject to associated consumer defaults. Westernbank has a significant fixed rate lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $894.0 million in one mortgage originator group in Puerto Rico at December 31, 2006. In addition, Westernbank has outstanding $46.0 million of fixed and floating rate loans to another mortgage originator group in Puerto Rico, for total outstanding loans to mortgage originator groups amounting to $940.0 million at December 31, 2006. These commercial loans are secured by 11,672 individual mortgage loans on residential and commercial real estate with an average principal outstanding balance of $80,534. Westernbank’s historical experience with the mortgage originator groups is that they have paid these loans in accordance with their terms. On March 16, 2006, Westernbank obtained a waiver from the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico with respect to the statutory limit for individual borrowers (loan to one borrower limit), which allows the Company to retain the above significant commercial loans in its portfolio until these are paid in full. If Westernbank experiences loan losses that are higher than its allowance for loan losses, our profits and financial condition may be adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents Our performance is subject to interest rate risk Our results of operations depend to a large extent on the success of Westernbank. Among the risks related to Westernbank are those related to interest rate fluctuations, lending operations and our ability to manage growth. Interest-rate fluctuations could adversely affect net interest income if our cost of funds increases faster than our yield on interest-earning assets. Increases in interest rates also increase the costs of loans to businesses and consumers and may reduce demand for such loans, which negatively affects the ability of the Company to maintain the loan growth it has experienced in recent years. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of the Company and Westernbank’s loans and securities holdings Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of the Company and Westernbank’s fixed-rate financial assets and may have an adverse impact on its earnings and financial condition. The Company and Westernbank owns a substantial portfolio of real estate loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities with fixed interest rates. The market value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability Westernbank faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. A number of institutions with which Westernbank competes may have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. In addition, certain of Westernbank’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulation that governs Westernbank’s business. As a result, certain of Westernbank’s competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Additionally, much of our growth has focused on the San Juan metropolitan area, which is a competitive market where a number of established financial institutions already exist. Increased competition could require Westernbank to increase its rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in statutes and regulations, including tax laws and rules, could adversely affect us Our company, as a Puerto Rico-chartered financial holding company, and our subsidiaries, are each subject to extensive federal and local governmental supervision and regulation relating to our banking and insurance businesses. In addition, there are laws and other regulations that restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries. Any change in such laws or regulations, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation subsequently enacted by the Congress of the United States or the local legislature, could adversely affect our profits and financial condition. We are subject to the general risks associated with the Puerto Rico economy Substantially all of the properties and other collateral securing our real estate, commercial and consumer loans are located in Puerto Rico. These loans may be subject to a greater risk of default if the Puerto Rico economy suffers adverse economic, political or business developments, or if natural disasters affect Puerto Rico. If any such developments or risks adversely affect Puerto Rico, our profitability may decrease. Applicable laws restrict our ability to pay dividends Our main sources of liquidity are dividends from Westernbank, interest and dividends on portfolio securities we own and net proceeds from capital borrowings and offerings of our capital stock. Westernbank may not pay dividends if upon payment it would become undercapitalized under the regulations enforced by the FDIC. Westernbank also could be subject to these dividend restrictions if the FDIC determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. We are also subject to restrictions on dividends generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations and may be restricted in our ability to pay dividends by minimum capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board issued a policy statement that provides that insured banks and financial holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Provisions of our charter and applicable law may prevent a change of control Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as well as United States federal banking law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if doing so would provide our stockholders with a “premium” to prevailing market prices or otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions in our charter documents include a staggered board of directors; a provision that prohibits stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; and advance notice procedures for nomination of directors and for stockholder proposals. 39 Table of Contents A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in a reduction of Westernbank’s loan origination activity which would adversely affect our financial results A period of prolonged general economic downturn or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A continued recession may have a significant adverse impact on Westernbank’s net interest income and fee income. We may also experience larger than previously reported losses on Westernbank’s loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on Westernbank’s commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgage loans. The loss of a key employee may adversely affect our prospects We believe that our management team is one of our most valuable assets and has a very high level of experience, depth and expertise. They are largely responsible for our growth and development to date. The loss of the services of any member of our management team could adversely affect our business prospects. Most of our executive officers do not have an employment agreement with us. The Company is subject to risks associated with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico’s temporary budget crisis Due to a budget impasse, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (“the Commonwealth”) closed all public agencies on May 1, 2006, except those related to safety, health and other essential services. All agencies were subsequently opened two weeks later and a budget approved by the Legislature was signed into law by the Commonwealth’s Governor. Subsequently, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s) downgraded the Commonwealth’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and kept the rating on “watch list” for possible future downgrade. According to Moody’s, this action reflects the Commonwealth’s strained financial condition, and ongoing political conflict and lack of agreement regarding the measures necessary to end the government’s multi-year trend of financial deterioration. A fiscal reform was later approved, where the Commonwealth House and Senate approved a tax reform authorizing a 7% sales tax, with the option, if expected revenues do not materialize, to raise it to 8% after December 2006. Notwithstanding, significant budget deficit and fiscal imbalance could continue in the coming years. Any significant adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico resulting from the budget impasse could have a negative impact on the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligation may affect Westernbank’s credit exposure Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. In May 2006, Moody’s downgraded the Commonwealth’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and put the credit on “watch list” for possible further downgrades. The Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds were also downgraded by one notch and are now rated just below investment grade at Ba1. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) still rates the Commonwealth’s general obligations two notches above junk at BBB, and the Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds BBB-, a category that continues to be investment-grade rated. In July 2006, S&P and Moody’s affirmed their credit ratings on the Commonwealth’s debt, and removed the debt from their respective “watch lists”, thus reducing the possibility of an immediate additional downgrade. These actions resulted after the Government of the Commonwealth approved the budget for the fiscal year 2007, which runs from July 2006 through June 2007, which included the adoption of a new sales tax. Revenues from the sales tax will be dedicated primarily to fund the Government of Puerto Rico’s operating expenses, and to a lesser extent, to repay government debt and fund local municipalities. Both rating agencies maintained the negative outlook for the Puerto Rico obligation bonds. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future rating stability and restoration of a stable long-term outlook. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. 40 Table of Contents It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. In addition, the above uncertainty in the public sector may also have an adverse effect on the Puerto Rico economy, which in turn may adversely affect in the credit quality of Westernbank’s loan portfolio. Westernbank’s credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition The slowdown on the island’s growth rate, which appears to have started in 2005, according to the Puerto Rico Planning Board statistics, has continued in 2006. Manufacturing has declined in overall activity for 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005, for the first time since 2002. Construction remains relatively weak during 2006, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal condition and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. The value of construction permits during the year ended December 2006 declined by approximately 23.2% when compared to 2005, with most of the drop coming from the public sector. Retail sales during the year 2006 also reflected the uncertainty prevalent at the time related to the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation, as well as increased oil and utility prices. Sales registered a decline of 3.2% as compared to the same period in 2005, as the months surrounding the temporary government shutdown were particularly affected. The unemployment rate was 10.2% as of December 31, 2006. Tourism is the one sector that has been resilient. Activity in the sector has expanded consistently since 2004, and in 2006 it registered the strongest increase in four years. Factors that may be boosting the tourism sector are geo-political tensions throughout the world, a relative benign hurricane season for the past two years, and a relatively firm U.S. economy. In general, it is apparent that in 2006 the Puerto Rican economy continued its trend of decreasing growth and ended the first half of the year with minimal momentum, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect in the credit quality of Westernbank’s loan portfolio, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in interest revenue sources of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 