ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors, in addition to other factors and matters discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that Puget Energy and PSE may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may impair PSE’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, Puget Energy’s and PSE’s business, results of operations and financial conditions would suffer.RISKS RELATING TO PSE’s BUSINESSThe actions of regulators can significantly affect PSE’s earnings, liquidity and business activities.The rates that PSE is allowed to charge for its services is the single most important item influencing its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE is highly regulated and the rates that it charges its wholesale and retail customers are determined by both the Washington Commission and the FERC.PSE is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Washington Commission with respect to accounting, operations, the issuance of securities and certain other matters, and the regulatory authority of the FERC with respect to the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at the wholesale level, accounting and certain other matters. Policies and regulatory actions by these regulators could have a material impact on PSE’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity.PSE’s recovery of costs is subject to regulatory review and its operating income may be adversely affected if its costs are disallowed.The Washington Commission determines the rates PSE may charge to its electric retail customers based, in part, on historic test year costs plus normalized assumptions about rate year power costs, weather and hydrological conditions. Non-energy costs for natural gas retail customers are based on historic test year costs. If in a specific year PSE’s costs are higher than what is allowed to be recovered in rates, revenue may not be sufficient to permit PSE to earn its allowed return or to cover its costs. In addition, the Washington Commission decides what level of expense and investment is reasonable and prudent in providing electric and natural gas service. If the Washington Commission decides that part of PSE’s costs do not meet the standard, those costs may be disallowed partially or entirely and not recovered in rates. For the aforementioned reasons, the rates authorized by the Washington Commission may not be sufficient to earn the allowed return or recover the costs incurred by PSE in a given period.The PCA mechanism, by which variations in PSE’s power costs are apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to a graduated scale, could result in significant increases in PSE’s expenses if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate.PSE has a PCA mechanism that provides for recovery of power costs from customers or refunding of power cost savings to customers, as those costs vary from the “power cost baseline” level of power costs which are set, in part, based on normalized assumptions about weather and hydrological conditions. Excess power costs or power cost savings will be apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to the graduated scale set forth in the PCA mechanism. As a result, if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate, PSE’s expenses could significantly increase.PSE may be unable to acquire energy supply resources to meet projected customer needs or may fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions. PSE projects that future energy needs will exceed current purchased and Company owned and controlled power resources in the near future. As part of PSE’s business strategy, it plans to acquire additional electric generation and delivery infrastructure to meet customer needs. If PSE cannot acquire additional energy supply resources at a reasonable cost, it may be required to purchase additional power in the open market at a cost that could significantly increase its expenses thus reducing earnings and cash flows. Additionally, PSE may not be able to timely recover some or all of those increased expenses through ratemaking. While PSE expects to identify the benefits of new energy supply resources prior to their acquisition and integration, it may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such energy supply sources.24PSE’s cash flow and earnings could be adversely affected by potential high prices and volatile markets for purchased power, increased customer demand for energy, recurrence of low availability of hydroelectric resources, outages of its generating facilities or a failure to deliver on the part of its suppliers.The utility business involves many operating risks. If PSE’s operating expenses, including the cost of purchased power and natural gas, significantly exceed the levels recovered from retail customers, its cash flow and earnings would be negatively affected. Factors which could cause purchased power and natural gas costs to be higher than anticipated include, but are not limited to, high prices in western wholesale markets during periods when PSE has insufficient energy resources to meet its load requirements and/or high volumes of energy purchased in wholesale markets at prices above the amount recovered in retail rates due to:•Below normal energy generated by PSE-owned hydroelectric resources due to low streamflow conditions or precipitation;•Extended outages of any of PSE-owned generating facilities or the transmission lines that deliver energy to load centers;•Failure to perform on the part of any party from which PSE purchases capacity or energy; and•The effects of large-scale natural disasters on a substantial portion of distribution infrastructure.PSE’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. PSE owns and operates coal, natural gas-fired, hydroelectric, wind-powered and oil-fired generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are:•Increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire;•Facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;•Disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories;•Labor disputes;•Inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements;•Disruptions in the delivery of electricity;•Operator error or safety related stoppages;•Terrorist attacks; and•Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or acts of nature.If PSE is unable to protect our information technology infrastructure and network against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.PSE operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems may be vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, these cyber-based attacks could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products and could affect the reliability or operability of the electric and natural gas systems.PSE is subject to the commodity price, delivery and credit risks associated with the energy markets as well as to supply and price risks affecting PSE’s construction and maintenance programs. In connection with matching loads and resources, PSE engages in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity and energy, and, accordingly, is subject to commodity price risk, delivery risk, credit risk and other risks associated with these activities. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties owing PSE money or energy will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, PSE may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, PSE’s financial results could be adversely affected. Although PSE takes into account the expected probability of default by counterparties, the actual exposure to a default by a particular counterparty could be greater than predicted.Further, as a consequence of its electric generation construction and reconstruction programs and investments in its electric and gas distribution systems, PSE contracts to purchase substantial quantities of steel, cable, and similar materials, and thus is subject to supply and price risks affecting these items. To lower its financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, PSE may use forward delivery agreements, swaps and option contracts to hedge commodity price risk with a diverse group of counterparties. However, PSE does not always cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility and 25the coverage will vary over time. To the extent PSE has unhedged positions or its hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could adversely impact its results of operations. Costs of compliance with environmental, climate change and endangered species laws are significant and the cost of compliance with new and emerging laws and regulations and the incurrence of associated liabilities could adversely affect PSE’s results of operations.PSE’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, including air and climate protection, endangered species protection, remediation of contamination, waste handling and disposal, water protection and siting new facilities. To comply with these legal requirements, PSE must spend significant sums of money on measures including resource planning, remediation, monitoring, analysis, mitigation measures, pollution control equipment and emissions related abatement and fees. New environmental laws and regulations affecting PSE’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to PSE or its facilities. Compliance with these or other future regulations could require significant expenditures by PSE and adversely affect PSE’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, PSE may not be able to recover all of its costs for such expenditures through electric and natural gas rates at current levels in the future.With respect to endangered species laws, the listing or proposed listing of several species of salmon in the Pacific Northwest is causing a number of changes to the operations of hydroelectric generating facilities on Pacific Northwest rivers, including the Columbia River. These changes could reduce the amount, and increase the cost, of power generated by hydroelectric plants owned by PSE, or in which PSE has an interest, and increase the cost of the permitting process for these facilities.Under current law, PSE is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that it currently owns or operates or has previously owned or operated. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or the new regulations governing such liability could result in substantial future costs and have a material adverse effect on PSE’s results of operations and financial condition.Specific to climate change, Washington state has adopted both a renewable portfolio standard and greenhouse gas legislation, including an emission performance standard provision. PSE cannot yet determine the costs of compliance with the recently enacted legislation. Recent decisions related to climate change by the United States Supreme Court and the EPA, together with efforts by Congress, have drawn greater attention to this issue at the federal, state and local level. While PSE cannot yet determine costs associated with these or future decisions or potential future legislation, there may be a significant impact on the cost of carbon-intensive coal generation, in particular. PSE’s operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. PSE’s business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on its revenue, expenses and operating results. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, demand depends heavily on weather patterns in PSE’s service territory, and a significant amount of natural gas revenue is recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. However, conservation efforts may result in decreased customer demand, despite normal or lower than normal temperatures. Demand for electricity is also greater in the winter months associated with heating. Accordingly, PSE’s operations have historically generated less revenue and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter. In the event that the Company experiences unusually mild winters, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.PSE may be adversely affected by extreme events in which PSE is not able to promptly respond and repair the electric and gas infrastructure system.PSE must maintain an emergency planning and training program to allow PSE to quickly respond to extreme events. Without emergency planning, PSE is subject to availability of outside contractors during an extreme event which may impact the quality of service provided to PSE’s customers. In addition, a slow or ineffective response to extreme events may have an adverse effect on earnings as customers may be without electricity and natural gas for an extended period of time.PSE may be negatively affected by its inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees.PSE’s ability to implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon PSE’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, PSE’s ability to provide quality service to PSE’s customers and to meet regulatory requirements could affect PSE’s earnings.PSE depends on an aging work force and third party vendors to perform certain important services.PSE continues to be concerned about the availability and aging of skilled workers for special complex utility functions. PSE also hires third parties to perform a variety of normal business functions, such as power plant maintenance, data warehousing and management, electric transmission, electric and gas distribution construction and maintenance, certain billing and metering 26processes, call center overflow and credit and collections. The unavailability of skilled workers or unavailability of such vendors could adversely affect the quality and cost of PSE’s gas and electric service and accordingly PSE’s results of operations.Poor performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs could unfavorably impact PSE’s cash flow and liquidity.PSE provides a defined benefit pension plan to PSE employees and postretirement benefits to certain PSE employees and former employees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plan’s assets and the current interest rate environment and therefore, continued adverse market performance or low interest rates could result in lower rates of return for the investments that fund PSE’s pension and postretirement benefits plans and could increase PSE’s funding requirements related to the pension plans. Any contributions to PSE’s plans in 2013 and beyond as well as the timing of the recovery of such contributions in general rate cases could impact PSE’s cash flow and liquidity.PSE may be adversely affected by its inability to successfully implement certain technology projects.PSE is currently undertaking a multi-year company-wide business process modernization effort which will replace existing software PSE currently uses for processing customer records and billing, mapping infrastructure assets and handling outage management tasks. These projects, are expected to be fully deployed by 2013, include: (1) a new Customer Information System intended to replace a PSE application that manages customer information and tracks outages and (2) an Outage Management System expected to augment and improve PSE’s ability to pinpoint the sources of electric system outages and respond to them more quickly, focus repair efforts and more accurately predict restoration times. Implementation of these information systems is complex, expensive and time consuming. If PSE does not successfully implement the new systems and new processes, or if the systems do not operate as intended, it could result in substantial disruptions to PSE’s business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Potential municipalization or technological developments may adversely affect PSE's financial condition. PSE may be adversely affected if we experience a loss in the number of our customers due to municipalization or other related government action. When a town or city establishes its own municipal-owned utility, it acquires our assets and takes over the delivery of energy services that we provide. This loss of customers and related revenue could negatively affect PSE's financial condition. In addition, there is also the risk that advances in power generation, energy efficiency and other alternative energy technologies, such as solar generation, could lead to more wide-spread use of these technologies, thereby reducing customer demand for the energy supplied by PSE. This reduction in usage and demand would reduce PSE's revenue and negatively impact our financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY AND PSE OPERATIONSThe Company's business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital.The Company relies on access to internally generated funds, bank borrowings through multi-year committed credit facilities and short-term money markets as sources of liquidity and longer-term debt markets to fund PSE's utility construction program and other capital expenditure requirements of PSE. If Puget Energy or PSE are unable to access capital on reasonable terms, their ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions, including generating capacity, which may be relied on for future growth and to otherwise implement its strategy, could be adversely affected. Capital and credit market disruptions, a downgrade of Puget Energy's or PSE's credit rating or the imposition of restrictions on borrowings under their credit facilities in the event of a deterioration of financial ratios, may increase Puget Energy's and PSE’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets.The amount of the Company's debt could adversely affect its liquidity and results of operations.Puget Energy and PSE have short-term and long-term debt, and may incur additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. Puget Energy has access to a multi-year $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, secured by substantially all of its assets, of which $434.0 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2012. PSE has access to three unsecured credit facilities that provide, in the aggregate $1.15 billion in short-term borrowing capability. PSE refinanced its credit facilities in February 2013 to two facilities with $1.0 billion in short-term borrowing capability, a 5 year contract, lower commitment fee rate and less restrictive covenants. In conjunction with the new PSE agreement, the Puget Energy agreement was reduced to a total of $800 million. In addition, Puget Energy has issued $1.4 billion in senior secured notes, whereas PSE, as of December 31, 2012 had approximately $3.8 billion outstanding under first mortgage bonds, pollution control bonds, senior notes and junior subordinated notes. The Company's debt level could have important effects on the business, including but not limited to:•making it difficult to satisfy obligations under the debt agreements and increasing the risk of default on the debt obligations;27•making it difficult to fund non-debt service related operations of the business; and•limit the Company's financial flexibility, including its ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all.A downgrade in Puget Energy’s or PSE’s credit rating could negatively affect the ability to access capital and the ability to hedge in wholesale markets.Although neither Puget Energy nor PSE has any rating downgrade provisions in its credit facilities that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect the ability to renew existing or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities. For example, under Puget Energy’s and PSE’s facilities, the borrowing spreads over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and commitment fees increase if their respective corporate credit ratings decline. A downgrade in commercial paper ratings could increase the cost of commercial paper and limit or preclude PSE’s ability to issue commercial paper under its current programs.Any downgrade below investment grade of PSE’s corporate credit rating could cause counterparties in the wholesale electric, wholesale natural gas and financial derivative markets to request PSE to post a letter of credit or other collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other mutually agreeable security, all of which would expose PSE to additional costs.The Company may be negatively affected by unfavorable changes in the tax laws or their interpretation.Changes in tax law, related regulations or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the IRS or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The tax law, related regulations and case law are inherently complex. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. The Company’s tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities.Potential legislation and regulatory actions could increase the Company’s costs, reduce the Company’s revenue and cash flow, or otherwise alter the way the Company conducts business.In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was signed into law. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank law gave regulators including the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities Exchange Commission the authority to create new oversight structures for derivative financial instruments, which were widely thought to have contributed to the 2008 financial crisis. The new legislation of certain over-the-counter swaps could expand collateral requirements of swaps, which may make it more costly for companies and/or limit the Company’s ability to enter into such transactions. The Dodd-Frank amended section 2(h)(7) of the Commodities Exchange Act to provide an elective exemption from the clearing requirements of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act for any entity that is not a financial entity, is using swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk, and notifies the CFTC, in a manner set forth by the CFTC, how it generally meets its financial obligations associated with entering into non-cleared swaps. The Company is evaluating the legislation and the CFTC’s implementation of it to determine its impact, if any, on the Company’s hedging program, results of operations and liquidity. The Company will not know the full impact of the new legislation until the regulations are finalized.RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY’S CORPORATE STRUCTUREAs a holding company, Puget Energy depends on PSE’s ability to pay dividends. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, the primary source of funds for the repayment of debt and other expenses, as well as payment of dividends to its shareholder, is cash dividends PSE pays to Puget Energy. PSE is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to pay any amounts to Puget Energy, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of PSE to pay dividends or make distributions to Puget Energy, and accordingly, Puget Energy’s ability to pay dividends or repay debt or other expenses, will depend on PSE’s earnings, capital requirements and general financial condition. If Puget Energy does not receive adequate distributions from PSE, it may not be able to meet its obligations or pay dividends.The payment of dividends by PSE to Puget Energy is restricted by provisions of certain covenants applicable to long-term debt contained in PSE’s electric and natural gas mortgage indentures. In addition, beginning February 6, 2009, pursuant to the terms of the Washington Commission merger order, PSE may not declare or pay dividends if PSE’s common equity ratio, calculated on a regulatory basis, is 44.0% or below except to the extent a lower equity ratio is ordered by the Washington Commission. Also, pursuant to the merger order, PSE may not declare or make any distribution, unless on the date of distribution PSE’s corporate 28credit/issuer rating is investment grade, or if its credit ratings are below investment grade, PSE’s ratio of Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) to interest expense for the four most recently ended fiscal quarters prior to such date is equal to or greater than three to one. The common equity ratio, calculated on a regulatory basis, was 48.0% at December 31, 2012 and the EBITDA to interest expense was 4.5 to 1.0 for the 12 months then ended.PSE’s ability to pay dividends is also limited by the terms of its credit facilities, pursuant to which PSE is not permitted to pay dividends during any Event of Default, or if the payment of dividends would result in an Event of Default (as defined in the facilities), such as failure to comply with certain financial covenants.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.