Risk Factors In evaluating Liberate and our business, you should consider the following factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements in this report are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated. Any of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations, causing the price of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Following the Asset Sales, we will have no current operating product or services business. On July 12, 2005, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets relating to our business outside of North America to SeaChange International, Inc. Following the transaction, we have no current operating product or services business. We will continue to operate Liberate to resolve existing liabilities, prosecute and defend pending litigation and pursue other claims as appropriate that we may have against third parties, and dispose of non-operating assets to maximize shareholder interests. Although our board of directors has not yet made any determination, we also will continue from time to time to evaluate and potentially explore all available alternatives including a dissolution and liquidation of Liberate, a share repurchase, an extraordinary dividend or other transactions to maximize stockholder value. We believe that our cash, together with proceeds from the Asset Sales, will be sufficient to meet our working capital 5 requirements for the next twelve months. In fiscal 2006, we expect to continue to use cash to fund our operating activities. Our efforts to manage outstanding liabilities and non-operating assets may not have favorable results. Although we will strive to resolve outstanding liabilities, prosecute and defend pending litigations and claims, and dispose of non-operating assets to achieve favorable results in the best interests of shareholders, the actual resolution of such liabilities, litigations and assets are uncertain and we may not be able to achieve favorable results. If the stockholders do not approve, or we fail to complete, the Reverse/Forward Stock Split as part of a going private transaction, we will be unable to eliminate the costs associated with being a public company and the market price of our common stock may decrease. On June 16, 2005, Liberate’s Board of Directors approved a reverse 1-for-250,000 split of Liberate common stock to be followed immediately by a forward 250,000-for-1 split, subject to stockholder approval at an upcoming special meeting of stockholders, as part of a “going private” transaction. If the transaction is approved by Liberate’s stockholders and implemented, Liberate expects to have fewer than 300 stockholders of record, which would enable Liberate to voluntarily terminate the registration of its common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and become a non-reporting company. As a private company, Liberate would no longer be required to file periodic reports and other information with the SEC. The proposed transaction is subject to the approval of Liberate’s stockholders at a special meeting of shareholders. We cannot predict whether we will succeed in obtaining the approval of our stockholders and we cannot insure that the Reverse/Forward Stock Split will be completed. If we are unable to complete such transaction, we will not save significant costs and expenses associated with being a public company and the market price of our common stock may decline. We are unable to compete with the North America business for five years from the date of the closing. In connection with the asset sale to Double C, we have agreed that we and our affiliates will not develop, market, license, grant forbearances not to sue or grant any rights to or authorize the use of any Non-North America intellectual property for commercial use or deployment in the United States, Canada and Mexico for a period of five years from the date of the closing of the asset sale to Double C. We have agreed that this covenant not to compete will be binding on any purchaser of our Non-North America business (such as SeaChange) or other successor to that business and its affiliates. We have further agreed that we will require any such purchaser to agree to be bound by this covenant for the remainder of the five year period and that the covenant not to compete may be enforced by Double C. In Connection with the asset sale to SeaChange, we agreed not to induce any customer of the Non-North America business to refrain from or discontinue its relationship with SeaChange for a period of five years from the date of the closing of the asset sale to SeaChange. If Liberate becomes a privately held company, stockholders will own shares in a private company and may not have the ability to sell their shares in the public market. Should Liberate consummate the Reverse/Forward Stock Split, some stockholders may have shares in Liberate for which there would be no public market and their ability to sell the shares would be impeded. Furthermore, Liberate would not file current, quarterly or annual reports or be subject to the proxy requirements of the federal securities laws. Stockholders may therefore find it more difficult to obtain information about Liberate and its financial performance. Liberate expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with the going private transaction and may not be able to realize sufficient cost savings to recover those expenses. 6 Litigation related to the restatement of our financial statements could continue to generate substantial costs and harm our financial condition. Liberate and certain of its former officers and current or former directors are the subject of a consolidated shareholder derivative lawsuit in state court relating to the restatement of our financial results. In April 2005, we entered into a written stipulation to settle the derivative litigation. However, the proposed settlement is subject to certain conditions and will be effective only if and when, among other things, the parties obtain final approval from the court. The court has scheduled a hearing on August 16, 2005 to consider approval of the settlement. If the proposed settlement does not become effective, the litigation will continue. The cost of participating and defending against this action is substantial and would continue to require management’s attention and corporate resources. In addition, while the SEC staff has terminated its investigation into the events and circumstances that led to the restatement and has recommended no enforcement action against Liberate at this time, the SEC is not precluded from any future action. We have agreed to indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent allowed by Delaware law. As a consequence, we are advancing expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) incurred by directors and officers in connection with the shareholder derivative action and the SEC investigation, although these payments are subject to reimbursement if such expenses are ultimately found to be non-indemnifiable. Additionally, we may ultimately be obligated to pay indemnifiable judgments, penalties, fines, and amounts paid in settlement in connection with these proceedings. We have notified our various insurance carriers of the litigation and the SEC investigation. Our primary carrier and one of our excess carriers have disputed whether certain costs incurred in connection with the restatement-related litigation and the SEC investigation, are covered under their respective policies. On March 1, 2005, Liberate filed a complaint against the primary carrier and one of the excess carriers alleging that the carriers failed to perform any of their obligations under their respective policies and applicable law on behalf of Liberate or its directors and officers in connection with the securities class action, the shareholder derivative action, and the SEC investigation. Liberate intends to prosecute its rights under its insurance policies vigorously. However, litigation is by its nature uncertain and there can be no assurance that Liberate will be successful in securing coverage under the policies. Our insurance may not cover all or portions of our defense costs, any settlement, judgment rendered against us, or amounts we are required to pay to any indemnified person in connection with the litigation, the SEC investigation, or any other matter. These costs and liabilities, if not covered by insurance, could harm our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Litigation related to the lease of our former offices could generate substantial costs, divert management attention and resources and harm our financial condition. In September and December 2004 and in May 2005, Circle Star Center Associates, L.P., the landlord of our former offices in San Carlos, California, filed complaints in California state court alleging, among other things, that Liberate had breached the office lease. The cost of participating and defending against these actions could be substantial and will require management’s attention and corporate resources. The possible resolution of these proceeding could include a judgment against Liberate or settlement that could require substantial payments, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. If we are unable to terminate leases on excess facilities or sublease excess office space, our net loss could increase and our financial condition could be harmed. Liberate is a party to real property leases in San Carlos, California and London, England that include space significantly in excess of our needs for the foreseeable future. We have vacated these premises and 7 have sought to sublease the excess space or, alternatively, to terminate these leases upon acceptable terms. If we are unable to terminate or settle these leases on favorable terms, we may remain liable for the full amounts due under the leases. In the past, we have recorded significant excess facilities charges in our statements of operations, and we anticipate that we may record additional charges in the future if actual lease exit costs or sublease income differ from amounts currently expected. Our inability to sublease significant portions of our excess office space or to terminate or otherwise settle these leases upon favorable terms could cause our net losses to increase and could harm our financial condition or results of operations. We have been named in securities class-action litigation involving the underwriters to our public offerings, which may result in substantial costs and occupy management attention and resources. Beginning on May 16, 2001, a number of class-action lawsuits seeking monetary damages were filed in federal court in New York against several of the firms that underwrote our initial public offering, naming Liberate and certain of our former officers and current or former directors as co-defendants. The plaintiffs subsequently added allegations regarding our secondary offering. While we deny allegations of wrongdoing, we have agreed to enter into a global issuer settlement of plaintiffs’ claims, which involves our insurers providing a guaranteed recovery to the plaintiffs. The settlement is subject to a number of conditions, including court approval, and failure to resolve this litigation on favorable terms could result in substantial costs or otherwise harm our business. A small group of stockholders owns a majority of our outstanding shares and can exercise significant control over Liberate. As of May 31, 2005, to our knowledge, six stockholders, who are not affiliated with one another, beneficially owned a total of approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Liberate. Expenses related to equity awards for our employees increase our net loss. As a result of our introduction, in fiscal year 2004 of restricted stock units as a form of equity compensation for employees and non-employee directors, we recorded an expense of approximately $2.5 million in FY05, and we expect to record expenses in future periods related to stock units. The continuation of granting of restricted stock units or other similar equity awards will increase our loss. In addition, with the issuance of SFAS 123(R), when adopted may require us to record the value of stock options or other equity awards granted to all or certain of our employees using a higher fair value. If we begin recording these amounts, our net loss would increase over the vesting period. Our compliance with the new regulatory requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley is untested and will likely be costly and time-consuming. We are now subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and identification of material weaknesses in the internal controls over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. We may identify a material weakness in current and future periods, and our controls necessary for continued compliance may not continue to operate effectively at all times. We also may not be able to retain sufficient skilled financial accounting personnel, especially in light of increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. 8 If we require additional capital and cannot raise it, we may not be able to fund our operations. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. However if in the future, we require additional capital we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop our products and services, acquire complementary technologies or businesses, hire and retain employees, or respond to competitive pressures or new business requirements. Our inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our company. Provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law could deter takeovers and prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions that: · Authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · Require super-majority voting to make certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation; · Limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; · Prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which means that all stockholder action must be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and · Establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and provisions in our stock incentive plans may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is designed to give the board flexibility in responding to unsolicited acquisition proposals and discourage coercive takeover offers. In general, the stockholder rights plan would provide our existing stockholders (other than an existing stockholder who becomes an acquiring person) with rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock at 50% of its trading price if a person or entity acquires 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock, unless our board of directors elects to redeem these rights. Our executive officers and key employees are critical to our business, and they may not remain with us in the future. Our business substantially depends on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could impact the resolution of liabilities, the outcome of pending litigation and other claims that we may have against third parties, and the disposal of non-operating assets to maximize shareholder interests. We do not carry “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to retain, identify and hire highly qualified personnel. If we do not manage our operations effectively, our stock price could decline. Since our inception, we have incurred significant losses, and we may never sustain profitability. We may continue to incur significant losses and negative cash flows in the future. If we cannot achieve 9 favorable resolution and disposition of liabilities, litigation and non-operating assets, our financial condition and results of operations will suffer and our stock price is likely to decline. Acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or product lines could be difficult to implement or integrate and could disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We have acquired and disposed of businesses and assets in an effort to increase stockholder value, and we may do so in the future. With any acquisitions or dispositions, it may be difficult to integrate or separate product lines, technologies, personnel, customers and widely dispersed operations. These efforts have in some cases proven more difficult than anticipated and may not succeed or may distract our management from operating our business. Our failure to successfully manage acquisitions or could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our stockholders would be diluted if we were to finance acquisitions by incurring convertible debt or issuing equity securities, and our liquidity may be adversely affected if we were to use our cash to make acquisitions. 