ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this Report before deciding to invest in our stock. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties about which we currently do not know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or operating results. Our businesses face intense competition and may not be able to compete successfully. Our businesses compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive cloud-based, B2B software and services markets and are subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and preferences and frequent introduction of products and services; that competition is expected to intensify in the coming years, particularly in the outsourced procurement market in which Procurian operates. Our businesses’ current and potential competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Established companies, on the one hand, have greater resources, more comprehensive and complementary product and service offerings, longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers. These companies can use their experience and resources to compete with our companies in a variety of ways, including by making acquisitions, investing aggressively in research and development, and offering more attractive commercial terms to customers, service providers and other strategic partners. Emerging start-ups, on the other hand, may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than our companies can. If our companies’ competitors are collectively more successful than our companies are in developing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining customers, our consolidated revenues and growth rates could decline. The inability of our businesses to attract new customers or retain customers, including certain significant customers, could negatively affect our results of operations and our financial condition. Our businesses may not be able to attract or retain customers due to a variety of reasons, including increased competition, the unwillingness of customers and potential customers to spend money on non-core products and services during periods of economic uncertainty, customer insolvency and the unavailability of credit for customers. If our businesses are unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers, our results of operations and our financial condition could be negatively affected. The loss of or reduction in business from one or more significant customers could have a materially negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses have significant individual customer relationships. Procurian in particular has a number of customers that individually represent a significant amount of our consolidated revenues. Some of our businesses’ customer contracts are subject to customer termination rights or customer rights to reduce the products or services purchased. If any of our businesses are unable to retain one or more of their significant customers, or if their customers collectively reduce by a significant amount the products or services that they purchase from our companies, we could fail to achieve our internal financial forecasts and related earnings guidance, and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our businesses often incur significant business development expenses as a result of long selling cycles which will not be recovered if they are unsuccessful in securing new customer contracts. Our businesses, particularly Procurian, often face long selling cycles to secure new contracts and typically incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle. Our businesses may not succeed in securing contractual relationships with prospective clients, in which case they would receive no revenues or other compensation or reimbursement for those expenses. Therefore, the failure of our companies to obtain contractual commitments from customers could have a particularly acute adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our businesses’ long and varying selling cycles make it difficult for us to prepare internal financial forecasts. Long and varying selling cycles for our businesses, particularly Procurian, may make it difficult for us to accurately predict whether and when prospective customers will enter into contracts to purchase products or services and when our companies will recognize revenue from those contracts. As a result, it is difficult for us to create precise internal financial forecasts, our actual results may vary from our internal financial forecasts, and our operating results in future reporting periods may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors. Potential customers of our businesses may be unwilling to implement the business changes attendant to the use of some of our cloud-based software and services. The use of our businesses’ cloud-based software and services often requires customers to implement changes to their existing method of conducting an aspect of their businesses. For example, in the case of Procurian, the purchase of outsourced procurement solutions may require customers to fundamentally change the way they purchase certain products and services used in their businesses. Some of our businesses’ potential customers may continue to rely on existing internal solutions or other non-cloud-based solutions rather than implement the business changes called for by our solutions. The loss of key personnel, or our businesses’ collective inability to attract additional key personnel, could significantly disrupt our businesses and harm our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our businesses is dependent upon their ability to attract and retain exceptional key personnel. Procurian’s business, in particular, is highly dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified professionals with unique experience and skills in the specific practice areas that Procurian addresses through its outsourced procurement services. If our key personnel, or the key personnel of one or more of our companies, particularly the chief executives at those companies, were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if we or our companies were unable to continue to hire exceptional personnel, our businesses and operations could be disrupted, and our operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Interruption of our businesses’ operations, infrastructures or systems upon which they rely could prevent them from delivering their products and services to their customers, which could significantly harm our business. Because our businesses are primarily conducted over the Internet, they depend on their abilities to protect computer equipment and the information stored in computer equipment, offices and hosting facilities against damage from earthquake, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other events. There can be no assurance that our companies’ disaster preparedness will prevent significant interruption of their operations. In addition, our companies engage third-party facility providers for their hosting facilities and related infrastructure that is essential for their subscription services. Service to our company’s customers could be interrupted in the event of a natural disaster, by a hosting provider decision to close a facility or terminate operations, or by other unanticipated problems. Similarly, our companies use third-party telecommunications providers for Internet and other telecommunication services. Any of those third-party providers may fail to perform their obligations adequately, and any third-party systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled for varying periods of time, causing business interruption, system damage, or inability to process funds on behalf of customers, which could reduce our companies’ revenues, cause them to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions, cause other liability to customers, or cause regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our businesses may become liable to their customers and lose customers if they have errors, defects or disruptions in their service or if they provide poor service. Our businesses deliver cloud-based software and services. Errors or defects in the software applications underlying those services, failures of the hosting infrastructures of our businesses, or errors in the delivery of services may make our businesses’ services unavailable to their customers, may cause disruptions in 9 Table of Contents such customers’ operations and may cause such customers to suffer other harm. Because those customers use our companies’ services to manage important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our companies’ services could adversely impact our companies’ customers’ businesses. If there are any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our companies’ services, our companies’ customers could elect not to renew or delay or withhold payment, our companies could lose future sales, or their customers could make warranty claims against them, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, or costly litigation or the payment of damages. Third-party attempts to breach our businesses’ networks or data security, or the existence of any other security vulnerabilities, could damage the reputation of our businesses and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Network and data security is particularly important for cloud-based software businesses, such as those we operate, which use Internet-based computing, storage, and connectivity technology to deliver their software products and services. Customers using our businesses’ products and services rely on the security of computer networks and infrastructure for achieving reliable service and the protection of their data. As part of our businesses’ subscription services, our companies receive sensitive data. There can be no assurance that this information will not be subject to computer break-ins, theft and other improper activity that could jeopardize the security of information handled by our businesses’ products and services or cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses. Any such breach in security could expose us or our companies to litigation, loss of customers, reputational damage and other business harm. We and our companies devote resources and incur costs to protect against security threats. Despite those efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities could cause us and our companies to incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any such actual or perceived vulnerabilities. Those costs could reduce our operating margins and expose us and our companies to litigation, loss of customers, reputational damage and other business harm. Our GovDelivery business depends heavily on contracts with the United States federal government. Those contracts could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the government’s continuing assessment of priorities, changes in government priorities or budget cuts. Those matters and/or delays in the budget process, including a continuing resolution, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our GovDelivery business derived the majority of its revenue from U.S. federal government customers in 2012; we expect that the business will continue to derive most of its sales from work performed under U.S. government contracts, which are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. The programs in which our GovDelivery business participates must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. Concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on U.S. and international government-customer budgets. While we believe that our GovDelivery business’ programs are well aligned with the missions of our U.S. government customers, shifts in domestic spending, the affordability of GovDelivery’s products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund, or the level of funding, for existing or proposed contracts between GovDelivery and its U.S. federal government customers. Our businesses are experiencing relatively rapid growth. If we fail to effectively manage that growth, our businesses and operating results could be harmed. As a general matter, our businesses have experienced relatively rapid growth in terms of headcount and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our and our companies’ combined management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we and our companies do not effectively manage that growth, the quality of our businesses’ products and services could suffer, which 10 Table of Contents could negatively affect our brands and operating results. The expansion of some of our businesses, particularly Procurian, into international markets heightens those risks as a result of the particular challenges of supporting businesses in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. To effectively manage growth, we and our companies will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management processes. Those systems enhancements and improvements may require additional capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement those improvements could hurt our ability to manage the growth of our businesses and our financial position. Fluctuations in our quarterly results and our inability to meet financial guidance may adversely affect our stock price. Our investors are increasingly evaluating our company based on our quarterly performance against financial targets. If our operating results in one or more quarters do not meet our stated financial guidance or our securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the price of our stock could decrease. We expect that our quarterly results could fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including: • general economic conditions, including economic downturns or uncertainty; • the timing of customer signings at our businesses; • our acquisition of interests in new businesses; • the operating results, including growth rates, of our businesses; • dispositions of our ownership interests in businesses, which could cause us to recognize gains or losses under applicable accounting rules; • significant fluctuations in the financial results of cloud-based, B2B software and services businesses generally; • changes in our estimated quarterly revenue, earnings and other performance metrics; • changes in the accounting methods that we use to account for our interests in companies that may result from changes in our ownership percentages in those companies; • the pace of development or a decline in growth of cloud-based software and services markets; and • competition for the products and services offered by our companies. If we are not able to consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our business strategy of owning and operating majority-owned, cloud-based B2B software and services businesses may, from time to time, require (1) the ability to strategically acquire new businesses on favorable terms and (2) the ability to strategically consummate “tuck-in” acquisitions at our existing businesses on favorable terms. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates that fit our business strategies. Furthermore, even if we are able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, it may not be possible to acquire interests in those companies due to an inability to reach mutually acceptable financial or other terms with those companies, or due to competition from other potential acquirers that may have greater resources, brand name recognition, industry contacts or flexibility of structure than we do. If we are unable to effectively deploy capital for acquisitions on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute on our strategy, and our business may be adversely impacted. Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business growth strategies, our existing businesses have and may continue to strategically acquire other companies, businesses and technologies. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology involves numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, 11 Table of Contents administrative systems, technologies, services and products of the acquired company or business and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and other expenses for our companies; they may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of a company’s equity securities. Accordingly, difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The operations and growth of our businesses could be impaired by the inability to raise capital or borrow money on favorable terms. The operations and growth (both organic and acquisitions-based) of our businesses may require additional capital. If we or our companies are unable to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, the ability of our businesses to operate and grow may be impaired. This may require us to take other actions, such as borrowing money on terms that may be unfavorable, or divesting of assets prematurely to raise capital. If we need capital for our businesses and are unable to raise it, our businesses may need to limit or cease operations. Our business strategy, which calls for the ownership and operation of a concentrated group of majority-owned businesses, may subject us to additional risks. In recent years, we have strategically refined our equity holdings, disposing of our interests in a number of companies and focusing our human and financial capital on a smaller number of majority-owned businesses. We currently hold and operate four majority-owned businesses, each of which offers cloud-based, B2B software and services. Because we have reduced the extent to which our holdings are diversified, we have concentrated the risk on our majority-owned companies. Procurian represents a sizeable majority of our consolidated revenue for the years presented in this Report, and we expect Procurian to continue to represent a sizeable majority of our consolidated revenue. Accordingly, any negative development at Procurian could have a significant negative impact on our financial results and our business. Moreover, because Procurian’s results constitute such a large portion of our consolidated results (with respect to which we provide the investment community with periodic guidance), any failure by Procurian to meet its expected results could cause us to fail to meet our overall expected results and, accordingly, could negatively impact our stock price. Our strategy may, from time to time, call for us to acquire new cloud-based, B2B software and services businesses. Acquiring a controlling equity stake in a cloud-based software or services company with the strong financial characteristics and growth potential necessitated by our strategy would likely require a significant amount of capital. Deploying large amounts of capital to acquire one or more companies could lead to a depletion of our available cash and could require us to borrow money, issue stock or otherwise raise additional capital, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Our inability to maintain the sizeable ownership stakes we hold in our consolidated businesses could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. One aim of our business strategy is to maintain or increase our ownership in our consolidated businesses; our limited financial resources may prevent us from achieving that goal. Certain transactional growth opportunities, such as mergers, acquisitions and consolidations, may arise with respect to any of our consolidated companies that would result in potentially dilutive issuances of such companies’ equity securities. In the event that any of our consolidated companies enters into such a transaction, we may have a decreased ability to direct the policies and affairs of or extract cash from the company or the surviving entity following the consummation of the transaction. In addition, we believe that it is important to incent the managers of our businesses by granting them equity in their respective companies from time to time. The grant of equity awards to the managers of our businesses dilutes our equity stakes in those businesses, which could have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business strategy. 12 Table of Contents Our businesses, which are not wholly-owned, could make financial or other business decisions that are not in our best interests or that we do not agree with, and which could impair the value of the securities we hold. Management or other stockholders of our operating companies, which are not wholly-owned, could have economic or business interests or objectives that are different from ours or disagree with our advice regarding financial or operating decisions, which could impair the value of our interests in those companies, prevent us from monetizing our interests in those companies at a time or at a price that is favorable to us or negatively affect our operating results. In addition, although we generally seek to acquire controlling equity interests in, and to participate in the management of, our businesses, we may not acquire or maintain a controlling stake in each business. If we lack control or share control in a company, we may not be able to control significant financial or other business decisions of that company, including whether to dispose of that company or raise capital at that company. We may not be able to extract cash from our businesses and may need to continue to rely on existing cash, liquidity events and additional capital raises to fund our operations. We currently rely on existing cash, liquidity events and dividends related to our companies and the issuance and sale of additional securities in order to fund our operations. One of our goals is to help each of our businesses achieve profitability so that we can access the cash flow of those businesses. All of our businesses may not meet that goal; even if they do, we may not be able to access the cash generated by those businesses to fund our operations due to a number of factors, including the needs of those businesses to reinvest in their own operations or to acquire other businesses. Our inability to access the cash of our businesses could have a negative impact on our operations. We may be unable to obtain maximum value in the divesture of the businesses and securities that we hold. From time to time, we may divest interests in our businesses to generate cash, for strategic reasons or to take advantage of limited market opportunities. The timing of those divestitures may not be within our control. Any need to quickly divest of businesses or securities that we hold to satisfy immediate cash requirements or to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), may require us to do so prior to canvassing the market or at a time when market conditions are unfavorable. We also may look to sell a company earlier than we originally anticipated in response to expected market consolidation or other market-specific dynamics. Further, we may not be able to identify a buyer or agree to terms with a buyer for one or more assets that we wish to divest. If we sell a business or securities that we hold, we may not receive the full amount of proceeds to which we would otherwise be entitled if additional payments to management and/or other stockholders are made to secure the approval and/or execution of the sale. In addition, a percentage of the consideration in acquisition transactions often consists of earn-outs, holdbacks, escrows and other contingent consideration, some of which may never be realized by a seller; in times of economic uncertainty, a greater percentage of acquisition consideration tends to be contingent. Registration and other requirements under applicable securities laws may also adversely affect our ability to dispose of our interests on a timely basis. Accordingly, we may not receive maximum value in the divesture of a business or securities that we hold, and the value we actually realize may ultimately be lower than the carrying value currently reflected in our consolidated financial statements and/or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts. Our accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis in our companies could change materially in the near term. Our accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis, including goodwill, in our companies could change in the near term, and the effect of those changes on our consolidated financial statements could be significant. It is possible that a significant write-down or write-off of our carrying basis in our companies, including goodwill, may be required in the future, or that a significant loss will be recorded in the future upon the sale of one or more companies. Any write-down or write-off of this type could cause a decline in the price of our stock. 13 Table of Contents Numerous external forces, including generally weak and/or uncertain economic and political conditions, have negatively affected our businesses, results of operations and financial condition in recent years, and future uncertain economic and political conditions could result in declines in our revenue and operating results. Numerous external forces, such as the global economic downturn that began in 2008, have negatively affected our businesses, results of operations and financial condition in the relatively recent past. The global economy is still in a period of economic uncertainty, with continued high unemployment rates. Economic uncertainty, as well as political conditions beyond our control, could result in future declines in our revenue and operating results. Adverse or uncertain financial and political conditions could cause customers and potential customers of our businesses to forgo, delay or reduce the amount of products and services that they purchase, extend our business sales cycles, create difficulties in collecting (or the inability to collect) accounts receivable, lead to slower adoption of new technologies, result in increased price competition and/or make it difficult or impossible for our businesses to obtain financing. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. Our stock price has historically been volatile. This volatility may continue in the future, particularly in light of the uncertainty that has characterized the global economy in recent years. The following factors, among others, may add to the volatility in the price of our stock: • general economic conditions, including economic downturns or uncertainty; • the reluctance of potential customers to spend on non-core products and services; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results; • changes in the market valuations of our companies and other cloud-based, B2B software and services businesses; • conditions or trends related to cloud-based, B2B software and services businesses; • changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; • new products or services offered by our businesses and their competitors; • announcements by our businesses or their competitors of technological innovations; • announcements by us, our businesses or our businesses’ competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • additional sales or repurchases of our securities or the securities of our companies; and • additions to or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any of these factors may decrease the price of our stock. We have had a general history of operating losses and may experience operating losses in the future. Historically we have had significant operating losses, excluding the effect of any non-operating gains, such as from the sale of interests in our companies. We can give no assurances as to whether we will achieve profitability and, even if we do have profits, we may not be able to sustain them in the future. Some of our companies have limited operating histories and may never be profitable. Some of our companies have only limited operating histories to aid in assessing future prospects. Further, some of our companies have significant historical losses and may never be profitable. Many of our companies have incurred substantial costs to develop and market their products and expand operations, have incurred net losses and cannot presently fund their cash needs from operations. The operating 14 Table of Contents expenses of these companies could increase in the foreseeable future as they continue to develop products, increase sales and marketing efforts and expand operations. We and our businesses may be subject to litigation proceedings or government regulation that could disrupt and harm our businesses. We and our companies may be subject to legal claims involving stockholder, consumer, competition and other matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting one or more of our companies from performing a critical activity, such as selling its software and services. If we or one of our companies were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a litigation matter, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Even if legal claims brought against us or our companies are without merit, defending lawsuits could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our or our companies’ management attention from other business concerns. The software and services offerings of our businesses are subject to government regulation domestically and internationally in many areas, including regulation of the Internet regarding user privacy, telecommunications, data protection and online content. The application of those laws and regulations to our businesses is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with those laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in monetary penalties being imposed on our companies or orders that our companies cease performing a critical activity, such as selling their software and services. We may have to buy, sell or retain assets when we would otherwise choose not to buy, sell or retain in order to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act, which would adversely impact our business strategy. Under the Investment Company Act, a company is considered to be an investment company if, among other things, it is primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the Investment Company Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy of actively managing, operating and promoting collaboration among our network of companies. On August 23, 1999, the SEC granted our request for an exemption under Section 3(b)(2) of the Investment Company Act, declaring us to be primarily engaged in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. This exemptive order reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk that we may have to take action to avoid registration as an investment company. For example, we might be considered to be in violation of our exemptive order if more than a certain percentage of our total assets consist of, or more than certain percentages of our income/loss and revenue over the most recently completed four quarters is derived from, ownership interests in companies that we do not primarily control. In the event that we cease to maintain primary control of a significant portion of our companies in the future, we may need to take steps to ensure that we do not become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, including buying, selling or retaining assets that we would not otherwise choose to buy, sell or retain. We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including supermajority voting requirements and the inability of our stockholders to call stockholder meetings or act by written consent, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and also provides for a staggered board of directors. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 