ITEM 1A: Risk Factors ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2: Properties ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings ITEM 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5: Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6: Selected Financial Data ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk ITEM 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9: Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures ITEM 9A: Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B: Other Information PART III ITEM 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Company ITEM 11: Executive Compensation ITEM 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 2 PART I References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “eCollege,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to eCollege.com and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which reflect our current expectations and beliefs regarding the Company’s future results of operations and performance and other future developments. You can identify these forward-looking statements when you see us using words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “believe” and other similar expressions, and such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the Company’s plans to offer additional products or services, the timing of any such offerings and the expected benefits to customers of any such offerings; expected technology developments; the Company’s growth strategy; future financial and operating results; future enrollment levels; future levels of capital expenditures; expected seasonality; and any other statements that are not based on historical facts. We caution our readers that these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of, among other things, the factors described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, and in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We advise readers not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report, which reflect our beliefs and expectations only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances or any changes in our beliefs or expectations, other than as required by law. ITEM 1: BUSINESS General eCollege is an outsource provider of value added information services to the post-secondary education industry. We were organized as a Delaware corporation in 1999 and operate through two divisions, our eLearning division and our Enrollment division, Datamark, Inc. (the terms “Datamark” and “Enrollment division” are used interchangeably throughout this report to describe the latter division). Our eLearning division provides on-demand outsourced technology, products and services that enable colleges, universities and high schools (“K-12 schools”) to offer online distance and hybrid educational programs as well as on-campus courses. Datamark provides integrated enrollment marketing services, primarily to the proprietary post-secondary school industry. Our growth strategies are aimed at providing value-added information services along the student life cycle to our target market, which consists of for-profit and growth oriented not-for-profit post-secondary schools, colleges, universities and K-12 schools in the United States and Canada. The student life cycle is the chain of activities and interactions a student goes through, from the beginning of the decision to go to school (or go back to school), throughout the completion of courses, to graduation and career placement and progression. Our goal is to provide our customer institutions with value-added solutions along this chain, thereby helping to ensure the efficient and effective growth of their educational programs. After careful analysis, we recently decided to invest in the international expansion of our eLearning business, initially by supporting United States clients who are expanding internationally and then by moving into selected international markets over the next several years. The principal components of the Company’s growth strategy include: Continue fueling the profitable growth of our current customers through existing services and in so doing drive our own revenue growth: As our solutions in both the eLearning division and the Enrollment division successfully help our clients attract, retain and educate a growing pool of students, our revenue increases. In the eLearning division, our price structure is tied directly to the number of course enrollments on our platform. In the Enrollment division, as our products and services help drive customers’ enrollments and corresponding revenues, there is an opportunity for our revenues to grow along with our customers’ increasing marketing expenditures. Add new products and services along the student life cycle that leverage both divisions in bringing additional value to our target market: This growth strategy involves gaining market acceptance of recent and planned product introductions within divisions, planning the development and integration of new product opportunities across the divisions, and analyzing other solution providers in the industry for potential acquisitions to provide additional products and services that are complementary to our core businesses. As part of our commitment to operational excellence in our new products, we recently 3 expanded the role of the Product Engineering & Technology organization, originally part of our eLearning business, to also support product innovation in the Enrollment business. We have also created a cross-divisional product committee, led by senior executives, to align development resources with a unified product vision. Up-sell and cross-sell additional services to current customers: Up-selling involves selling additional products and services to current customers within the eLearning and Enrollment divisions. Cross-selling focuses on selling products of one operating division to appropriate customers of the other division. Our past cross-selling experience has focused on the biggest revenue opportunities and customers most resembling the institutions currently served by each division. We intend to expand our cross-selling initiatives to package Enrollment solutions appropriately across various segments of customers within eLearning to help those clients achieve their growth targets. In addition, we plan to market eLearning solutions as a core growth engine for appropriate Enrollment division clients. Add additional customers: We expect to continue to increase our customer base by targeting sales efforts at entrepreneurially-minded institutions that are committed to achieving enrollment growth in both online and on-campus programs. Additionally, we will explore strategic relationships where appropriate to drive sales of our products and services. For example, we recently entered into an agreement with a course evaluation vendor that combines the vendor’s course evaluations with our online survey technology and infrastructure. Under the agreement, both our clients and the vendor’s clients can purchase access to quality assessment instruments delivered through our platform. The agreement provides us with an additional channel to facilitate sales of our online survey applications. Expand the eLearning business to selected international markets: We believe that certain countries present significant opportunities for online education as they move towards knowledge-based economies. We intend to begin our international expansion in 2006 by internationalizing the eLearning platform and supporting clients who wish to begin operating with us in select international markets in the latter half of the year. We will also explore other business opportunities and distribution channels in international markets. We do not expect our international expansion to generate significant revenue in 2006. Segment Information eCollege has two business segments, eLearning and Enrollment. A summary of our net revenue, income from operations, and assets for each of our business segments may be found in Items 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Solution eLearning Our eLearning technology, products and services are designed to be comprehensive, powerful and flexible to drive the success and growth of the online educational programs of our target market. As an on-demand software vendor, we provide our customers access to our software products, consisting of online campuses, courses, reporting, content management and program administration solutions, through hosting services in our reliable data centers. We also provide services complementing our software, including design, development and management of online campuses and courses, as well as ongoing administration, faculty and student support. Our suite of products and services provides customers with the flexibility to either outsource the development of their online campus and courses or to select individual products and services to meet their unique needs. The eCollege SystemSM. The eCollege System consists of proprietary, web-based software and services that facilitate the creation of online programs by our customers and support their operational and academic needs. The eCollege System includes eCollege Teaching SolutionsSM, eCollege Program Administration SolutionsSM and our technology infrastructure. eCollege Teaching Solutions. eCollege Teaching Solutions support the development, delivery and efficient management of quality online courses and the training of online instructors. The eCollege AU+SM Course Management System is our teaching and learning system for online course delivery. The eCollege Teaching Solutions include the following: eCourseSM and eCompanionSM. eCourse, our fully-online course designed for distance learning and hybrid learning (which encompasses both online and face-to-face class sessions), includes applications necessary for managing courses, outlining assignments, facilitating class discussions, conducting lectures, testing, grading and interacting with and among students. The majority of our eLearning revenue is derived from student technology service fees charged for enrollments in eCourses. eCompanion, our lower-priced online supplement to a face-to-face or on-campus course, offers customers some of the functions of eCourse and provides instructors with the tools necessary to create an interactive online component to supplement traditional on-campus courses. 4 Content Manager. The eCollege Content Manager helps our customers centrally manage, standardize and reuse content across multiple programs, courses, sections and other applications. Content Manager is tightly integrated into eCollege’s course management system so users do not have to go outside of a course to create, edit, search for or add content to a course or course section. eCollege Program Administration Solutions. The eCollege Program Administration Solutions include products and services that provide assistance and tools to our customers’ administrators to assist them in enhancing overall program quality and efficient administration. These products and services include: Gateway CampusSM and CampusPortalSM. Gateway Campus and CampusPortal are online portal products that offer community, academic and administrative functions similar to those found on a physical college campus. The Gateway Campus provides access to online campus services, courses and course supplements, and includes faculty and administrative services. Our customers can choose to add premium features, such as interactive course catalogs, online admissions forms and online registration, to their Gateway Campus. CampusPortal is our most comprehensive portal product and includes all of the functionality of the Gateway Campus and the premium features. Program Management and Reporting. We assign every customer a client services consultant and a back-up team to provide assistance with term and course administration and user management, and to ensure that the customer’s communications and reporting needs are met. We also offer customers a wide range of standard reports, including activity usage and enrollment reports that analyze student data to help customers manage their online programs. In addition, we are able to create custom reports that respond to our customers’ unique needs. Evaluation Solutions. Evaluation Solutions are comprehensive Internet-based products that automate the entire course and instructor evaluation process. These products allow our customers to gather data from students and faculty online, and then aggregate the data into reports to help monitor course and program quality and instructor effectiveness. Program Intelligence Manager. Program Intelligence Manager is an interactive analysis toolset that enables customers to identify and act on key drivers affecting student satisfaction, course and program quality and course completion and student retention rates. The functionality allows customers to analyze user activity and trends across multiple courses, programs and schools. eCollege Services. eCollege offers a suite of professional services that complement its Teaching and Program Administration Solutions. These offerings include: Help Desk. As part of our core offering, we provide assistance to students, faculty and administrators 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to ensure that technical questions related to the eCollege System are resolved quickly and effectively. Course Development and Support, Instructional Design Consulting and Training, and Content Solutions. We offer course development services to help customers reduce the time it takes to develop new course offerings, create enhancements to existing courses with new learning objects or multi-media, and convert existing course content from other companies’ course management systems. Our instructional designers leverage our product and service offerings to help customers deliver quality online courses, instruction and programs. Technical Consulting. Our software development team offers custom technical consulting to meet a customer’s unique needs, whether it be for a special eLearning-related application, a customized brochure website, or for integrating the customer’s online programs with its student information systems and other enterprise-wide applications through our open platform initiative. Technology Infrastructure. eCollege’s technology infrastructure provides our customers with a turnkey online program solution and offers reliability, scalability, accessibility, security and performance designed to provide program stability and growth. The reliability of an institution’s online learning environment and support services can affect its faculty and student satisfaction, and thus its student completion, retention and graduation rates. Our technology infrastructure consists of: Hosting. As an on-demand provider, we host our software for our customers in a highly reliable and scalable hosting environment, allowing customers to provide their online programs through a standard Web browser. We have two commercial data centers and have built redundancy into every critical area of the eCollege System, including security, switches, communication servers, network management, Web servers, application servers, database servers and data storage. This redundancy enabled us to achieve 99.999% internal system availability to our customers during the 2003-2004 academic year, 99.978% availability during the 2004-2005 academic year and 99.989% availability thus far in the 2005-2006 academic year. 5 Internet Connectivity. To ensure maximum up-time for our customers, we provide full OC-3 and Gigabit Ethernet connections balanced over three Tier I Internet providers: multiple Internet providers to insure instant data rerouting if one of the connections should ever fail; .Alt Access—a completely separate alternate network path to a customer’s website; and world-wide network and application performance monitoring. Product Advancement. Our development and quality assurance teams focus not only on features and functionality, but also on the usability and scalability of our products. All new product development initiatives go through a rigorous definition, development and quality assurance process. Furthermore, because of our on-demand model, whenever we release an upgrade or enhancement to our Teaching Solutions or Program Administration Solutions, all of our customers have immediate access to the benefits of the new product offering. Enrollment The products and services offered by Datamark are focused on three stages of the student life cycle: recruiting (lead generation), enrollment (lead conversion), and student retention. Our lead generation products primarily consist of direct mail, media placement and interactive marketing solutions that are designed to attract the interest of the most likely candidates for enrollment at our customers’ institutions. We provide sophisticated lead response tracking and utilize that tracking to optimize the media mix for customers on a continual basis. With respect to enrollment products and services, we provide lead conversion systems and training to enhance the performance of our customers’ admissions employees, as well as post-lead communication campaigns to increase the number of leads that actually convert into enrollments. Our LeadBoost service is a customized lead contact strategy that uses a tailored mix of mail, interactive and telephonic media to keep interested prospects engaged. Our retention marketing products and services include a suite of tools for identifying “at risk” students, communication plans to help those students stay in school and monitoring and response plans to keep track of students as they progress through the program. The following is a description of Datamark’s key product and service offerings: Direct Mail. We access comprehensive lists of potential students from several leading student marketing groups. These lists include information about high school students as well as non-traditional learning prospects. We also have direct online access, through national list compilers, to lists that target young adults, career changers and individuals seeking continuing education. By targeting selected groups, we help to ensure that mailings are received by qualified sales leads and enable our customers to reach potential students at lower costs. Datamark also provides customized response modeling and list development. Our custom software and database systems enable us to streamline the direct mail production process and provide efficient turnaround times for direct mailings. Interactive Marketing. We offer interactive services based on managing and buying internet media mixes for lead generation on behalf of our customers. Our eMaxSM service creates customer leads through Web marketing, using techniques such as online advertising and media placements, search management and email communications. We also offer research and competitive analysis, search engine optimization and web site design and related services. Our eOptSM solution allows us to group smaller schools together and purchase media for the group as a whole to obtain more efficient rates. Our database driven lead management system provides a complete lead verification process that minimizes the number of invalid leads sent to our customers, as well as real-time reporting on key aspects of our customers’ media buys. We recently introduced an interactive product model under which the customer procures the lead and we provide lead “scrubbing,” media management, analytic and other services. Media Placement. We provide comprehensive media buying for both broadcast and print advertising media. Through our MediamaxSM lead tracking technology, our customers can obtain real-time information on media-generated leads and measure the effectiveness of various advertisements. Student Retention. Our Path FinderTM solution is a custom-designed retention solution that records and mines data comprised of student success guides, course evaluation surveys, student satisfaction surveys, faculty and staff surveys and exit surveys. While the program is designed to help all students succeed, it is particularly effective at identifying students most susceptible to attrition and utilizes specialized tools and technologies to motivate them to stay in in school. This enhanced monitoring allows our customers to proactively address student issues and increase retention rates. Our StartBoost™ solution is a custom-designed solution that identifies those enrolled students who are at risk for not starting their courses or programs and provides specialized email, mail and telephone communications designed to motivate them to start. 6 Other Products. Other Datamark products include custom research, admissions training and admissions shopper services. Our custom research includes focus groups, surveys and studies of curriculum mix, school site locations and other factors that affect enrollment and retention. We also offer training to our customers’ admissions staffs to improve their conversion rate of leads into enrollments. Our admissions shopper services allow customers to view the admissions process through the eyes of a prospect. These services are supported by specialized database technology and research and optimization methods. Customers We define customers based on their common ownership. Even though certain school groups do not centralize budgetary or purchasing decisions, a goup of customers under common control or otherwise affiliated with each other is regarded as a single customer.. Online distance education purchasing decisions are generally made at the consolidated school group level, while enrollment marketing budgetary and purchasing decisions are more often made at the individual school or campus level. As of December 31, 2005, our eLearning division had more than 280 customers located primarily in the United States and Canada. Our eLearning customers include some of the fastest growing and largest programs for online degrees, certification and professional development. The eLearning division serves for-profit education companies and post-secondary schools, public and private universities, community colleges, career commuter colleges, state departments of education and K-12 school districts. In addition, we have contracts with several providers of continuing education and corporate training. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our 30 largest eLearning customers accounted for approximately 70% of our eLearning revenue. Our Enrollment division operates in three key customer sectors within the post-secondary market: proprietary; continuing education; and community colleges, with the majority of customers coming from the proprietary sector. As of December 31, 2005, the Enrollment division had more than 150 customers. These customers are located throughout the United States and Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our 30 largest Enrollment customers accounted for approximately 92% of our Enrollment division revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Corinthian Colleges, a customer of both the eLearning and Enrollment divisions, accounted for approximately 22% of our consolidated revenue. Sales and Marketing eLearning We target prospective customers in the United States and Canada. We have a dedicated eLearning sales force who are responsible for new business development and whom we compensate with a combination of base salary, revenue-based commissions and bonuses for sales and specified sales activities, including activities relating to cross-sales of Datamark services. Most members of the sales force have a background in education and/or technology. We divide our sales force into two groups: post-secondary education and K-12, each managed by a vice president responsible for regional directors located within the geographic territories they serve. Our regional directors focus on selling to institutions with large distance programs or the potential for large distance programs within a clearly defined target account list for each geographic region. Once a customer contracts with us, the account is assigned to our Account Management department, which is responsible for partnering with our customers to build new online programs for new schools or departments within customers’ institutions. The Account Management department also promotes and sells additional products and service offerings to our customers for their existing programs and provides assistance to program administrators to ensure that customers’ communications and reporting needs are met. We compensate our Account Managers with a combination of salary, revenue-based commissions and bonuses for contract renewals, up-sales and cross-sales. To further penetrate the distance education market, we offer our on-campus product and service offerings at significantly reduced prices for customers that demonstrate a commitment to building or maintaining a large distance education program as an overall enterprise solution. This pricing strategy is designed to encourage further familiarity with our Teaching Solutions software for students who have never taken online distance courses as well as on-campus faculty who may also wish to teach online in a distance education program. We also plan to continue to expand our product offerings, by both offering new products and by increasing the flexibility with which existing products may be deployed. We market our eLearning technology and services through trade shows, eCollege-sponsored symposiums, speaking engagements and direct marketing. Our eCollege.com website includes a demonstration of the eCollege System and provides information on industry news, trends and important events in online learning. We use press releases and communications to the news and trade media to promote online learning and our customers’ programs in order to increase online student enrollments. We are continuing to strengthen our brand identity by participating in trade shows, conferences and executive speaking engagements. 7 Enrollment Our Enrollment division employs an experienced sales force which is comprised of a new business development team and an account management team. Incentive compensation plans for our new business sales executives include a base salary plus commission on gross sales of direct mail, interactive, research, training and retention services and on net sales of media placement for the first 12 months of new business revenue. New business account executives are also responsible for and compensated for cross-divisional sales. Incentive compensation plans for our account management sales executives include a base salary plus commission on gross sales of direct mail, interactive, research, training and retention services and on net sales of media placement. This team is responsible for overseeing the projects of our existing client base to ensure quality service and for growing business from existing clients by selling additional products and solutions. Datamark rewards up-selling activities by paying accelerated commissions on non-core products and services. The Enrollment division is pursuing several growth initiatives to leverage its core competencies, business model and customer base. The division’s near-term growth areas include further penetrating its core market and broadening its services offerings. We are actively working with our customers to integrate additional service offerings to support enrollment and retention objectives. While Datamark’s customers continue to purchase marketing services primarily to drive on-campus enrollments, demand for Datamark’s marketing solutions for online programs is growing quickly. We primarily market our Enrollment division solutions through the sales efforts of our account executives. We also participate in industry trade shows, sponsorships, e-mail campaigns, and newsletters. In addition, we rely on our Datamark website and place advertisements in major trade magazines. Competition eLearning The online learning market has evolved quickly over the past ten years and is subject to technological change. Some colleges and universities construct online learning systems utilizing in-house personnel and create their own software or purchase software components from a vendor. Therefore, we face significant competition from a variety of entities including software companies with specific products for the college and university market, some of which provide hosting services, as well as service companies that specialize in consulting, system integration, and support in the online learning industry. In addition, we have recently seen a number of open source solutions enter the market. Other competitors in this market include a wide range of education and training providers using video, mail correspondence, CD-ROM, and live online training. We believe that the market has begun to consolidate, as evidenced by the recent merger of Blackboard, Inc. and WebCT, Inc. Our principal competitors include Blackboard, Inc., Desire2Learn Inc. and ANGEL Learning, Inc. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: • The ability to provide high quality online learning, meeting the needs of colleges, universities, K-12 schools and their students; • A proven approach and process to ensure the successful growth of online educational programs; • Reliable technology, with up-time and degradation free usage being the significant measures; • Scalable technology and support services that ensure continued security and system performance as customers grow; • Flexibility and the ability to integrate other technology-based products; • The ability to offer a full complement of products, services, and hosting capabilities as a single-source provider; • Single source accountability for customer support and satisfaction; • Financial viability and company reputation; 8 • Competitive pricing; and • The quality of implementation and ongoing support teams. We believe that we compare favorably to our competitors on the basis of these factors. Enrollment The primary source of competition for our Enrollment division comes from large educational institutions that perform a significant portion of their marketing function in-house and from local advertising agencies, media companies and printing services companies who compete for our accounts. There are a few outsourced marketing service providers that we believe are our primary competitors, but we believe that few, if any, of these companies offer as comprehensive a selection of integrated marketing solutions as we offer. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: • The ability to deliver an industry-specific solution; • The ability to provide a comprehensive solution for student enrollment and retention; • Knowledge of the education industry, including an understanding of the drivers of success; • The ability to provide high quality marketing products and customer service; and • Delivering to customers a superior return on their marketing investments. We believe that we compare favorably to our competitors on the basis of these factors. Technology In late 2004, we consolidated the technology organizations for eLearning and Enrollment under the management of our Product Engineering and Technology division. This division is also responsible for development and maintenance of the MIS applicatons that support our business. Following is a discussion of the technology we employ in each of our operating divisions: eLearning Our technology strategy for the eLearning division is to employ the best available software on stable and scalable platforms. All of our solutions contain our proprietary software and include access to certain widely-available software products we license from third parties. To create the custom components of our software, we employ Microsoft’s most current and commonly used Internet programming technologies, allowing applications to communicate and share data over the Internet. Because our current business depends on our ability to host Web-based software applications for our customers, one of our primary technical goals is to provide a highly reliable, fault tolerant system. To do so, we have made substantial investments in systems monitoring, fault handling, technology redundancy and other system up-time enhancements. For example, we continuously monitor our customers’ online campuses and our own core systems for availability. All of our primary servers contain fault-tolerant disk storage technology, backup network cards and power supplies, which reduce the possibility of a single point of failure in our servers and reduce downtime. Our database servers contain the latest clustering technology, which uses a combination of scalable hardware and Microsoft software technologies. We maintain sophisticated “firewall” technology to prevent access by unauthorized users and to minimize known vulnerabilities to system security. We also have Intrusion Detection Systems and offer SSL (Secure Socket Layer) encryption for sensitive data, and VPN (Virtual Private Network) access to safely transfer data. Our products are delivered to our customers from a network of centralized Web servers. Our Web servers are located in two data centers, commonly known as Web “server farms,” which provide us with scalable, high bandwidth Internet connections. Our primary facility is co-located at ViaWest Internet Services, Inc. (“ViaWest”) in Denver, Colorado, and our back-up facilities are located at our eLearning division headquarters in Denver. Having multiple data centers provides us with the capability to provide backup in the case of failure of a data center, thereby mitigating or eliminating customer downtime. We have begun a two-year build-out of an additional data center at a ViaWest facility outside of Denver which we plan to use as a disaster recovery facility later in 2006 and as a second production facility beginning in 2007. 9 Enrollment Our technology strategy for the Enrollment division is to employ the best available software and systems to provide our customers with an integrated enrollment marketing and retention solution. This strategy is supported by the following: • We have direct online access to targeted national lists of potential students; • We employ sophisticated lead response tracking systems to optimize the media mix for customers; • Our Path Finder solution helps record and mine data; and • We offer other value-added services such as Internet search engine optimization and web site review, consultation, design, and development. We employ Microsoft’s most current and commonly used programming technologies, as well as open source software such as Linux, PHP and MySQL, in the development and support of our technology solutions. The Enrollment division uses state-of-the-art equipment in its direct mail production facility. Using high volume laser printers and direct-to-plate technology, which reduces turnaround times and increases quality, our production facility is easily scalable and is designed specifically for short-run, highly personalized direct mail campaigns. The facility has several printing presses, folding machines, inserting machines and sorting machines. We are investing in additional equipment in the first half of 2006 to increase the level of automation and optimize scheduling in our production facility Research and Development The Company’s product development activities are managed from Denver, Colorado, with development teams in both operating divisions. Most of our development activities take place in Denver and Salt Lake City. In January 2004 we decided, based on timing and cost considerations, to supplement our development efforts by committing resources to offshore development in Sri Lanka. eCollege entered into an agreement with a third party vendor to provide supplemental software development for our development projects. In April 2007, we will have the option of hiring the third party’s staff and establishing our own facility in Sri Lanka. Our minimum future commitments under this agreement totaled $2.4 million at December 31, 2005. If we elect to terminate the agreement before April 2007, we will have to pay a termination penalty equal to six months’ expense at the then current minimum staffing level. Our integrated technology operations and software development in Denver, Salt Lake City and Sri Lanka ensure common architectural standards and processes throughout the Company. Both onshore and offshore resources support research and development for the eLearning and Enrollment divisions as well as our MIS activities. eCollege’s total expenditures for research and development were $7.2 million in 2005 (of which $1.4 million related to development in Sri Lanka), $6.6 million in 2004 (of which $0.9 million related to development in Sri Lanka) and $5.7 million in 2003 (all in the United States). In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we capitalized $1.4 million, $1.8 million and $304,000, respectively, in costs for internally developed software, which reduced research and development expense by corresponding amounts. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future as we continue to develop and provide innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. Seasonality Because the majority of our eLearning revenue is derived from the number of students our customers have enrolled in online courses delivered on our Course Management System, our results of operations are impacted by the seasonality inherent in the traditional academic calendar. However, in 2005, we continued to see our customers offer more non-traditional course terms (i.e. quarterly, monthly and bi-monthly), which has somewhat mitigated the seasonality of our results. We expect this trend to continue in the future. We also experience some seasonality in our Enrollment division. This seasonality is primarily driven by our customers’ direct mail campaigns, which tend to be weighted toward the second half of the calendar year. As a result of the seasonality in our businesses, sequential quarter-to-quarter financial results are not directly comparable. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights The Company relies upon federal statutory and common law copyright, trademark and servicemark law, patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, customers, partners, and others to protect its proprietary 10 rights. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has six patents registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) covering certain features of the eCollege System, with expiration dates between 2012 and 2015. eCollege has additional patent applications filed with the USPTO covering other features of the software included in the eCollege System. We have certain registered servicemarks and trademarks including eCollege.com®, eCollege® and Datamark®. We will continue to evaluate the registration of additional servicemarks as appropriate. Employees As of December 31, 2005 we employed 519 people. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We make available free of charge on our website at www.eCollege.com our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC. You can access such filings from the Investor Relations section of our website via a hyperlink to a third-party SEC Filings website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors This section identifies certain risks and uncertainties that we face. If we are unable to appropriately address these and other circumstances that could have a negative effect on our business, our business may suffer. Negative events may decrease our revenues, increase our costs, negatively affect our financial results and decrease our financial strength, thereby causing our stock price to decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may have a negative impact on our business. A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Is Generated From a Relatively Small Number of Customers. Revenue from a small number of customers has comprised a substantial portion of the historical revenue of eLearning and Datamark and is expected to represent a substantial portion of divisional revenue for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our 30 largest eLearning customers accounted for approximately 70% of eLearning division revenue and the 30 largest customers of the Enrollment division accounted for approximately 92% of Enrollment division revenue. One institution (Corinthian Colleges) that is a customer of both the eLearning and Enrollment divisions accounted for approximately 22% of consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005. Any cancellation, deferral, or significant reduction in work performed for these principal customers, or failure to collect accounts receivable from these principal customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our Stock Price Is Likely to be Volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • Quarterly variations in our operating results; • Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • Changes in market valuations of other online service companies or our customers; • Future issuances of our common stock; 11 • Stock market price and volume fluctuations; • General political and economic conditions, such as a recession, further military action or additional terrorist attacks, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; and • Other risk factors discussed in this report. These factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the market prices for stocks of many internet-related and technology companies have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations that appeared to bear no relationship to the operating performance of these companies. In the event our stock price fell significantly, investors might sue the Company, causing increased litigation expenses and, possibly, the payment of large damages or settlement fees. We Depend On Our Customers and Third Parties to Market Student Enrollments for Online Courses. A substantial portion of our eLearning division revenue is derived from fees for each enrollment in an online course that we host for our customers. Generally, we do not market directly to students to generate enrollments in our customers’ courses and therefore have little influence on the number of students that enroll. We are therefore dependent on the institutions and organizations that purchase our products and services to market to individual students. The failure of these third parties to effectively attract, maintain, and increase student enrollments could affect our revenue growth and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Although Datamark provides enrollment marketing services to its customers, the majority of Datamark’s customers are not customers of our eLearning division, and there can be no assurance that they will become customers of our eLearning division. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly and May Be Below the Expectations of Analysts and Investors. The sales cycle for our products and services vary widely and can be very lengthy, particularly for the eLearning division. Because of the variability and length of the sales cycle, it may be difficult for us to predict the timing of particular sales, the rate at which online campuses, courses, and/or course supplements will be implemented, the number of students who will enroll in the online courses, or the rate of which new or future customers will utilize our enrollment marketing services. Because a significant portion of our eLearning division’s costs are fixed and are based on anticipated revenue levels, small variations in the timing of revenue recognition could cause significant variations in operating results from quarter-to-quarter. Since we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, any significant decrease in revenue would likely have an immediate material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Further, any such variations could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such an event, the trading price of our stock would likely fall and investors might sue the Company, causing increased litigation expenses and, possibly, the payment of large damages or settlement fees. We Depend on Our Key Personnel. Our success depends on the performance of our key management, technical, sales and other critical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain management and highly qualified key personnel. Failure to do so could disrupt our operations, adversely affect our customer relationships and impair our ability to successfully implement and complete Company initiatives. We are facing increased labor costs, particularly with respect to technical personnel; if this trend continues, we may be required to pay higher compensation to attract qualified personnel and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future success and our ability to pursue our growth strategy will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management personnel. Executives have left the Company over the years, and there may be additional departures from time to time. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, these agreements do not obligate them to remain employed by us. The loss of services of any senior management personnel could make it more difficult for us to successfully pursue our business goals. We Face Significant Competition in our Markets. The online learning market has evolved quickly over the past ten years and is subject to technological change. Some colleges and universities construct online learning systems using in-house personnel and create their own software or purchase software components from a vendor. Therefore we face significant competition from a variety of entities including software companies with specific products for the college and university market and service companies that specialize in consulting, system integration and support in the eLearning industry. We have recently seen a number of open source solutions enter the market. Other competitors in this market include a wide range of education and training providers using video, mail correspondence, CD-ROM, and live online training. We also face significant competition in the market for enrollment marketing services to the post-secondary education industry. Competition is most intense from colleges and universities that perform their own enrollment marketing services in-house. Datamark also faces competition from other enrollment marketing companies, direct marketing companies, media placement agencies and online marketing companies. 12 Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Certain competitors may be able to secure alliances with customers and affiliates on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns and devote substantially more resources to systems development than we can. In addition, it is possible that certain competitors, or potential competitors, could reduce their pricing to levels that would make it difficult for us to compete. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, as well as loss of market share and brand recognition. In addition, in order to compete effectively in our markets, we may need to change our business in significant ways. For example, we may change our pricing, product, or service offerings, make key decisions about technology directions or marketing strategies, or acquire additional businesses or technologies. Any of these actions could hurt our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Recent Rapid Growth in Our Markets May Not Continue and our Ability to Grow May be Adversely Affected. The online learning market and the for-profit post-secondary education market have grown rapidly in recent years, and there can be no assurance that such growth levels will continue. Our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend in part on continued growth in these markets. With respect to the online learning market, our success will depend in part on the continued adoption by our customers and potential customers of online education initiatives. Online education is a relatively new development, and some academics and educators are opposed to it in principle. It is possible that their opposition could reduce the demand for our products and services or result in increased costs or burdens for customers and potential customers offering online education. With respect to our enrollment marketing services, the marketing strategies and budgets of our current and prospective customers are subject to frequent change. Our Network Infrastructure and Computer Systems May Fail. The continuing and uninterrupted performance of our network infrastructure and computer systems is critical to our success. Any system failure that causes interruptions in our ability to provide services could reduce customer satisfaction and, if sustained or repeated, would reduce the attractiveness of our technology and services to our customers and their students and to prospective customers and could require us to issue credits or pay penalties under our contracts with certain customers. In addition, a system failure could expose us to significant remediation expense and could divert management’s attention and other company resources. Because our services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential customer and student information, our success depends on our ability to provide superior network security protection and maintain the confidence of our customers in that ability. Unauthorized disclosure of such information could subject us to liability and have a negative impact on our reputation. Our system is designed to prevent unauthorized access from the internet and, to date, our operations have not been affected by security breaks; nevertheless, in the future we may not be able to prevent unauthorized disruptions of our network operations, whether caused unintentionally or by computer “hackers” or by the failure of our internet service providers to provide us with adequate bandwidth and service. Despite precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems have from time to time in the past caused, and in the future could cause, interruptions or delays in the delivery of our products and services. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We are almost exclusively dependent on Microsoft for our underlying software technology platform. We are therefore potentially vulnerable to business or operational disruption caused by changes in the Microsoft platform, security flaws in Microsoft software, and/or potential price increases or licensing changes by Microsoft. We Have Incurred Debt, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Our Ability to Obtain Financing in the Future and React to Changes in Our Business. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s principal debt obligations totaled approximately $20.0 million ($22.0 million face value). Of this amount, $17.9 million ($20.0 million face value) is secured by all of our assets. Our debt could have important consequences to our stockholders. Because of our substantial debt: • Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, or other purposes may be impaired in the future; • A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • We may be exposed to increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and 13 • Our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or our business or be unable to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and productivity improvement programs. The breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in our Senior Subordinated Notes, Seller Notes or New Revolver could result in a cross default under the applicable agreements which would permit the applicable lenders to declare all amounts then outstanding to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and, in the case of the Senior Subordinated Notes and New Revolver, to foreclose on our assets. In any such case, we may be unable to make any borrowings under our New Revolver and may not be able to repay the amounts due under our Senior Subordinated Notes or Seller Notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We May Desire or Need to Raise Additional Capital In The Future And It May Not Be Available On Acceptable Terms. We may desire or need to raise additional capital through public or private financing, strategic relationships, or other arrangements in the future. In the event that we desire or need to raise additional capital, we cannot assure that additional funds will be available or that funds will be available on terms favorable to us. Furthermore, we may have to sell stock at prices lower than those paid by existing stockholders, which would result in dilution to those stockholders, or we may have to sell stock or bonds with rights superior to rights of holders of common stock. Any debt financing might involve restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our services and products, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our financial position. Any future need to raise additional funds could also directly and adversely affect our stockholders’ investment in our common stock. We May be Unable to Sustain Profitability. Although we have reported net income for each fiscal quarter beginning with the period ended March 31, 2003, and Datamark, under its previous owners and structure, had realized net income for each reporting period since 2001, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain profitability. We believe that our success depends, among other things, on our ability to increase our revenue by further developing existing customer relationships and developing new relationships with colleges, universities, and other potential customers without increasing our expenses at the same rate. If we are unable to continue to increase our revenue, our business and financial results will be materially and adversely affected. Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting Is Not Effective, which Could Result in Possible Regulatory Sanctions and a Decline in our Stock Price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) requires us to furnish annually a report on our internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting (including disclosure of any material weakness) and a statement that our independent auditors have attested to and reported on management’s evaluation of such internal control. As disclosed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2005. As a result, neither management nor our independent auditors were able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was effective within the meaning of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley as of such date. As a result, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, either of which could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities. We May Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights and We May be Subject to Claims of Infringement by Third Parties. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and technology, such as our trade and product names, and the proprietary software included in our products. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, servicemarks, patents, trade secret laws, and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to duplicate or copy aspects of our services or software or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. If others infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, servicemarks or other proprietary rights, our business could be hurt. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 14 In addition, although we do not believe that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others, other parties might assert infringement claims against us. We may encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. These disputes, even if without merit, could lead to litigation, which may be time-consuming and costly (even if we are successful), may require us to redesign our products or services, may require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all), and could be a distraction to management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our agreements with our customers require us to indemnify our customers in the event they are sued by a third party claiming that our products and services infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. In the event of such a lawsuit against our customers, our performance of these indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government Regulation May Adversely Affect Our Future Operating Results. The federal government, through the Higher Education Act and other legislation, may consider changes in the laws that affect distance education in higher education. Legislation could be adopted that would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the internet, relating to user privacy, content, taxation, intellectual property ownership and infringement, distribution, and characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the popularity or expansion of online education, and may cause us to incur unanticipated compliance costs. The adoption of federal or state laws or regulations concerning privacy of personal information could impair Datamark’s ability to purchase lists of prospective students from third party vendors or increase the costs of obtaining such lists. Our increasing presence in many states across the country may subject us to additional tax laws and government regulations, which may adversely affect our future operating results. Our violation of any state statutes, laws or other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business. Datamark Does Not Have Long-Term Agreements With Its Customers and May Be Unable to Retain Customers, Attract New Customers or Replace Departing Customers With Customers that Can Provide Comparable Revenues. Most of Datamark’s contracts with its customers are short-term. Datamark’s current customers may not continue to use its products and services, Datamark may not be able to replace in a timely or effective manner departing customers with new customers that generate comparable revenues, and Datamark may not continue to increase its customer base. Further, there can be no assurance that Datamark’s customers will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. Datamark’s failure to develop and sustain long-term relationships with its customers could materially and adversely affect the results of operations of Datamark and eCollege as a whole. If We are Unable to Continue to Receive our Current Level of Access to and Costs for Mailing Lists, Our Competitive Advantage Could Be Materially Affected. Our Enrollment division obtains mailing lists from third party vendors. Because of our unique relationships with some of our key vendors, we are able to purchase these lists in high volumes under favorable pricing and in formats compatible with our systems. If we were unable to continue to obtain these mailing lists at our current pricing levels and in the formats in which we historically have received these lists, it could reduce our competitive advantage and have a material adverse effect on our business. Increases in Costs of Revenue Could Harm Datamark’s Business. The direct marketing activities of Datamark may be adversely affected by increases in certain costs. Datamark’s direct mail activities may be adversely affected by postal rate increases, especially increases that are imposed without sufficient advance notice to allow adjustments to be made to marketing budgets. With regards to Datamark’s interactive marketing services, rising demand for online advertising has in the past and may in the future cause Internet media prices to increase. Because Datamark is generally obligated under its contracts to deliver a specified number of leads at a specified price, Datamark may be unable to adjust its pricing to reflect increased Internet lead costs until contracts expire and are renegotiated. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of Datamark and eCollege as a whole. Our Business and Future Operating Results Are Subject to a Broad Range of Uncertainties Arising Out of Terrorist Attacks on the United States of America. Our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks on the United States of America. These uncertainties include a potential global economic slowdown and the economic consequences of further military action or additional terrorist activities. While terrorist attacks have not had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date, any future attacks or events arising as a result of the attacks, such as interruptions to the international telecommunications network or the internet, could have a material impact on our business. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 