Item 1A. Risk Factors. We experienced losses from continuing operations during 2004, and 2005, and we expect to experience additional losses in 2006. We have experienced recurring negative cash flows attributable primarily to operating losses. As a result of such negative cash flows and losses, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe that the merger transaction with North American Truck Lines, LLC, described in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Pending Merger with North American Truck Lines, LLC," represents the best available strategic alternative to address our need for liquidity and capital resources. If the pending merger transaction with North American Truck Lines, LLC is not consummated, the value of stockholders' investments may suffer. (See further discussion under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources".) We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to achieve profitability. These factors include the following: o We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. o Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain significant growth in our business. o Some of our competitors offer customers a money back guarantee if certain shipments are delivered late. o Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called ''core carriers'' as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. o Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. o The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources than us and other competitive advantages relating to their size. o Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. Page 4 o Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices. o Competitors that, in the past, have used us to deliver interline shipments for them in our regions may not continue to do so, which would reduce our revenue. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors over which we have little or no control. Our business is affected by a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: o Significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices. o Excess capacity in the trucking industry. o Decline in the resale value of used equipment. o Fluctuations in interest rates. o Rising healthcare costs. o Higher fuel taxes and license and registration fees. o Increases in insurance costs or liability claims. o Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers. We also are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. A significant amount of our freight is concentrated in Texas and California. Accordingly, we also are directly impacted by economic conditions in and affecting Texas and California over which we have no control. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. The LTL industry is capital intensive. Historically, we have depended on cash from operations, borrowing from banks and finance companies, and leases to expand the size of our terminal network and maintain and expand our fleet of revenue equipment. Our 2006 budget for capital expenditures, will be approximately $7.5 million including approximately $6.0 million for replacement trailers. We expect that proceeds from the sale of two terminals (in the first quarter of 2006) and other proceeds (mainly from sales of revenue equipment) will approximate $9.0 million after paying off related terminal debt in 2006. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our planned replacements, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. The loss of one or more of our five largest customers could significantly and adversely affect our cash flow, market share, and profits. In 2005, our largest customer, Home Depot, accounted for approximately 4.1% of our total revenue, and our five largest customers accounted for approximately 13.6% of our total revenue. Our largest customers are under no firm obligation to ship with us and the contracts are generally terminable upon 30 or 60 days' notice. In addition, we have significant exposure to the retail sector and to the economies in Texas and California. If we lose one or more of our large customers, or if there is a decline in the amount of services those customers purchase from us, our cash flow, market share, and profits could be adversely affected. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Customers" for additional information. Page 5 If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of the following key employees: Robert V. Fasso, our Chief Executive Officer and President; Jeffrey A. Hale, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Walt Ainsworth, our Executive Vice President; and Rich Stolz our Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales. The loss of any of their services could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of restoring our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Our ability to compete would be substantially impaired if our employees were to unionize. None of our employees are represented under a collective bargaining agreement by a labor union. In 2001, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters filed a petition with the National Labor Relations Board seeking an election among the employees at our Dallas, Texas facility. Our employees voted not to form a union when that election was conducted in April 2002. In October 2002, after we requested an election, the Teamsters withdrew from representing our employees in Las Vegas, our only remaining facility where employees had at one time requested union representation. While we believe our current relationship with our employees is good, we cannot assure you that further unionization efforts will not occur in the future. Our non-union status is a critical factor in our ability to compete. If our employees vote to join a union and we sign a collective bargaining agreement, the results probably would be adverse for several reasons: o Some shippers have indicated that they intend to limit their use of unionized trucking companies because of the threat of strikes and other work stoppages. A loss of customers would impair our revenue base. o Restrictive work rules could hamper our efforts to improve and sustain operating efficiency, for example by inhibiting our ability to implement dynamic resource planning within our workplace. o A strike or work stoppage would hurt our profitability and could damage customer and other relationships. o An election and bargaining process would distract management's time and attention and impose significant expenses. These results, and unionization of our workforce generally, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. We are party to securities class action and derivative litigation which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. In June and July 2004, three stockholder class actions were filed against us and certain of our officers and directors. The class actions were filed in the United States District Court - Western District of Texas and generally allege that false and misleading statements were made in our initial public offering registration statement and prospectus, during the period surrounding our initial pubic offering, and up to the press release dated June 16, 2004. On August 9 and 10, 2004, two purported derivative actions were filed against us, as nominal defendant, and against certain of our officers, directors, and former directors. These actions were filed in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas and generally allege breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment on the part of certain of our present and former officers and directors in the period between December 12, 2003 and August 2004. The purported derivative actions seek declaratory, injunctive, and other relief. Page 6 Further, on January 20, 2006, a lawsuit was filed against us, and certain of our officers, directors, and former directors. This action was filed in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas. The lawsuit includes a purported derivative action on behalf of us and our stockholders against the officers, directors, and former directors, generally alleging breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, bad faith, and conspiracy. On February 1, 2006, a purported derivative action was filed against us by the same plaintiff that filed the derivative actions on August 9 and 10, 2004, as nominal defendant, and against our current directors. This action was filed in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas and generally alleges breach of fiduciary duty and conflicts of interest on the part of the directors in connection with their approval of the pending merger transaction with North American Truck Lines, LLC. The purported derivative action seeks declaratory, injunctive, and other relief preventing consummation of the pending merger transaction. This litigation, as well as any other securities class action litigation that might be initiated against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. We do not believe there is any factual or legal basis for the allegations against us, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these lawsuits. We have informed our insurance carrier and have retained outside counsel to assist in our defense. We cannot provide any assurances as to the outcome of these litigations. Any conclusion of these litigations in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of these litigations also could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly affect our operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We currently carry $30.0 million of insurance coverage, with a self-insured retention of $1.0 million per occurrence for claims resulting from cargo theft or loss, personal injury, property damage, and physical damage to our equipment. We also self-insure for workers' compensation up to $1.0 million per occurrence, and for all health claims up to $0.3 million per occurrence. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for most trucking companies. Additional increases could further increase our insurance and claims expense as current coverages expire or cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, we suffer adverse development in claims compared with our reserves, or any claim exceeds the limits of our insurance coverage, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our large self-insured retentions require us to make estimates of ultimate loss amounts and accrue such estimates as expenses. Changes in estimates may materially and adversely affect our financial results. In 2003, we recorded an aggregate of $3.8 million in increases to our reserves for accident, workers' compensation, and other liabilities arising in prior periods. Such accrual included $1.8 million for two accidents that occurred in 2002. This compared to an accrual of $0.5 million in additional expense in 2002, relating to claims that arose in prior periods. The large accrual in 2003 caused our financial results to suffer. We may be required to accrue such additional expenses in the future. In October 2002, we were forced to seek replacement excess insurance coverage after our insurance agent failed to produce proof of insurance on policies for which we had obtained binders as of July 15, 2002. We are not aware of any claims during the period between July and October 2002 that are expected to exceed the self-insured retention level we had at the time. For any claims arising during such period that exceed that level, we intend to pursue our legal rights against the insurance agent and its errors and omissions policy but we cannot assure you that such coverage will be available, in which case our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Ongoing insurance requirements could constrain our borrowing capacity. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness could be adversely affected by an increase in requirements that we post letters of credit in support of our insurance policies. On January 31, 2005, we entered into a Credit Facility with Bank of America, N.A., as Agent, and certain other lenders. The face amount of letters of credit we are required to post may increase in the future. Increases in letters of credit outstanding will reduce our borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility, thereby adversely affecting our liquidity. Page 7 Difficulty in attracting qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability and ability to grow. Periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors. If we are unable to attract drivers and contract with independent contractors, we could be required to adjust our compensation package, let trucks sit idle, or operate with fewer independent contractors and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel and our ability to collect fuel surcharges may affect our costs of operation. We require large amounts of diesel fuel to operate our tractors. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political, and other factors beyond our control. For example, diesel fuel prices, excluding Federal and State taxes, recently reached historically high levels ($2.28 average price per gallon in October 2005), with our cost averaging $1.83 per gallon for 2005, compared with $1.23 per gallon for 2004. To address fluctuations in fuel prices, we seek to impose fuel surcharges on our accounts. These arrangements will not fully protect us from fuel price increases. In addition, any shortage or interruption in the supply of fuel would negatively affect us. Accordingly, fluctuations in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We base our fuel surcharge rates on the weekly national average price of diesel fuel. Because our operations are concentrated in the southwestern United States, there is some risk that the national average will not fully reflect regional fuel prices, particularly in California. Historically, we have not engaged in hedging transactions to protect us from fluctuations in fuel prices. We rely on transportation alliances with other LTL operators, and a breakdown of these alliances could adversely affect our revenue. In our regional LTL operations, we primarily pick up and deliver freight within our own operating regions. Freight originating outside our territory for delivery inside our territory is brought to us by several other trucking companies with which we have formed transportation alliances. In return, we deliver to them freight that originates in our territory for delivery in their territories. In 2005, transportation alliances generated approximately 7.5% of our revenue. These alliances subject us to certain risks, including: o Expanding our own operations into an alliance company's territory may cause that company to stop using our alliance. o We may not control the customer relationship on freight moving into our territory. o Our alliance companies can end their relationships with us at any time and could choose to form an alliance with one of our competitors in our territory. o The reduction or termination of our alliances could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our former Chairman, Jerry Moyes, his family, and trusts for the benefit of his family own approximately 35.5% of our stock and have substantial control over us. Jerry Moyes and trusts for the benefit of his family beneficially own approximately 31.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Mr. Moyes' brother and sister-in-law, Ronald and Krista Moyes, beneficially own approximately 4.0% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Jerry Moyes, his family, and certain trusts for the benefit of his family are able to influence decisions requiring stockholder approval, including election of our board of directors, our management and policies, the adoption or extension of anti-takeover provisions, mergers, and other business combinations. This concentration of ownership may allow Mr. Jerry Moyes to prevent or delay a change of control of our company or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws. In matters requiring stockholder approval, Mr. Jerry Moyes' interests may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock and he may take actions affecting us with which you may disagree. Page 8 We engage in transactions with other businesses controlled by our officers and directors, and the interests of our officers and directors could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. We engage in multiple transactions with related parties. These transactions include the lease of 29 active terminals and four dormant terminals from Southwest Premier Properties, L.L.C. Southwest Premier is owned by some of our existing stockholders, including Jerry Moyes, our former Chairman of the Board, and Robert V. Fasso, our Chief Executive Officer. These related party transactions also include the lease of two active terminals from Jerry Moyes, the lease of two terminals from Swift Transportation, and freight transportation transactions with Swift Transportation Co., Inc. ("Swift") and Central Refrigerated Service, Inc. ("Central Refrigerated"), companies for which Jerry Moyes served as Chairman. As a result, our directors and executive officers may have interests that conflict with yours. Although we have adopted a policy requiring that all future transactions with affiliated parties be approved by our audit committee or another committee of disinterested directors, we cannot assure you that the policy will be successful in eliminating conflicts of interests. Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions. Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry, particularly as customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand, impeding our ability to transport freight, and increasing operating expenses. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S. agencies. Our drivers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices would adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, and discharge and retention of stormwater. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling islands at nineteen of our facilities. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, such as paint, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Page 9 