Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial results are subject to a number of risks. The factors discussed below highlight risks that management believes are most relevant to the Company’s current operations. This list does not capture all risks associated with the Company’s business. Additional risks, including those that generally affect the banking and financial services industries and those that management currently believes are immaterial may also negatively impact the Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect us. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. We can give no assurance that our allowance for loan losses is or will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we could continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to real estate construction loans, land acquisition and development loans and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Moreover, we expect that the current recession may continue to negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need to record additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the credit risk of our borrowers could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by changes in economic conditions, the credit risks of a particular borrower, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. 8 Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. While we intend to maintain a prudent approach to extending credit by undertaking due diligence and credit scoring to determine the risk of each credit application, there can be no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. If we fail to adequately manage our credit risk, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our high percentage of commercial loans presents a great risk of non-payment. Generally, commercial and industrial, commercial construction and land development and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non-payment by a borrower than other types of loans. These loans comprised 25%, 8% and 22%, respectively, of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2010. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time. In addition, the economic downturn has caused several businesses to close. If the value of the real estate or other business assets serving as collateral for our loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, resulting in a material adverse effect on our provision for loan losses and on our operating results. Our earnings and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a continued downturn in the economy of South Central Pennsylvania. Metro’s business is concentrated in South Central Pennsylvania. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent upon the growth in businesses, population, income, deposits and housing in this geographic area. In the previous twelve months, South Central Pennsylvania has seen the opening of few businesses, the closing of manufacturing properties and offices and continued layoffs of personnel. Because of the concentration of our business in this region, we are unable to spread the risks of the slow economy over a large geographic area. While we experienced a 1% growth in our total deposits in 2010, a continued slowdown in the economy could slow that growth in 2011 and otherwise adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We plan to continue to grow rapidly and there are risks associated with rapid growth. Prior to 2009, we experienced significant growth in net income, assets, loans and deposits. In 2010, we experienced a 1% increase in total deposits. Our growth has been achieved through organic growth. We intend to continue to expand our business and operations in our existing Central Pennsylvania footprint as well as open new stores in Metro Philadelphia. Subject to regulatory approvals, we are targeting to open approximately 12 new stores over the next five years. We anticipate the cost to construct and furnish a new store will be approximately $3.1 million, excluding the cost to lease or purchase the land on which the store is located. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and competition. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect us. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by other-than-temporary impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that we determine are other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us, which could materially adversely affect us and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Significant impairment charges could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We anticipate that our existing capital will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In September 2009, we completed a successful common stock offering which raised nearly $78 million. This additional capital provides the foundation for aggressive store growth, both de novo and through acquisitions of existing banks. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on various matters, including our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as on conditions in the capital markets at 9 that time, which are outside of our control. The current financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, which has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise additional capital. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth, branching and/or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Unfavorable economic and market conditions due to the current global financial crisis may materially and adversely affect us. Economic and market conditions in the United States and around the world have deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Conditions such as slowing or negative growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis have resulted in a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These economic developments could have various effects on us, including insolvency of major customers and a negative impact on the investment income we are able to earn on our investment portfolio. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict. Distress in the credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions have resulted in the failure of some financial institutions around the world and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps in efforts to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. There can be no assurance that these efforts will succeed. We could be materially adversely affected by: (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets; (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions; (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to continue the stabilization or provide additional regulation of the financial system; or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or longer lasting than currently anticipated. We cannot assure you that any governmental action would benefit us. We must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market area. As we grow, we must be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could materially adversely affect us. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect us. We may be adversely affected by lawsuits alleging trademark infringement. On or about June 15, 2009, we changed our name and the name of the Bank and began using the red “M” logo. Several companies in the United States, including companies in the banking and financial services industries, use variations of the word “Metro” and the letter “M” as part of a trademark or trade name. As such, we face potential objections to our use of these marks. On or about June 19, 2009, Members 1st Federal Credit Union, or “Members 1st,” filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania against Metro Bancorp, Inc., Metro Bank, Republic First and Republic First Bank. Members 1st claimed federal trademark infringement, federal unfair competition and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition by Metro in Metro’s use of a red letter “M” alone, or in conjunction with its trade name “Metro” Members 1st alleged that such use infringes Members 1st’s federally registered and common law trademark for the mark M1ST (stylized). On February 25, 2011, the parties to this lawsuit executed and filed with the court a Stipulation and Proposed Order of Dismissal under which the complaint against Metro and the Bank was dismissed without prejudice. While Metro intends to make certain modifications to its logos in the near future, we can provide no assurance that the Members 1st lawsuit will not be reinstituted at a later time or that other trademark infringement actions will not be brought against us. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net income and liquidity. Our operating income, net income and liquidity depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income and therefore our earnings and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings and liquidity could 10 also be materially adversely affected if the rates on our loans, securities and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties surrounding our exposure to change in interest rate environment. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We have substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer in our market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Several of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, stronger regulatory ratios and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income and liquidity by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. The same competitor advantages listed above exist in attempting to attract business and consumer deposits. The Bank faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Bank, which could decrease the deposits that the Bank attracts or require the Bank to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. Our share price may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition;• changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts;• our failure to pay dividends on common stock;• publication of research reports about us or the banking industry generally;• changes in market valuations of similar companies;• the effects of and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;• general economic or business conditions, either nationally, regionally or in the communities in which either we do business, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality and loan performance or a reduced demand for credit;• the impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) and other changes in financial services’ laws and regulations (including laws concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance);• interest rate, market and monetary fluctuations;• unanticipated regulatory or judicial proceedings and liabilities and other costs;• compliance with laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local agencies;• our ability to continue to grow our business internally and through acquisition and successful integration of new or acquired entities while controlling costs;• continued levels of loan quality and volume origination;• the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses;• deposit flows;• the willingness of customers to substitute competitors’ products and services for our products and services and vice versa, based on price, quality, relationship or otherwise;11 • changes in consumer spending and saving habits relative to the financial services we provide;• the ability to hedge certain risks economically;• the loss of certain key officers;• changes in accounting principles, policies and guidelines;• the timely development of competitive new products and services by us and the acceptance of such products and services by customers;• rapidly changing technology;• continued relationships with major customers;• effect of terrorist attacks and threats of actual war;• other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting the Company’s operations, pricing, products and services; and• our success at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. Stock markets, in general, have experienced over the past year and continue to experience, significant price and volume volatility and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased market volatility could result in a substantial decline in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental entity and, therefore, an investment in our common stock involves risk. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity and is subject to investment risk, including possible loss. There may be future sales of our common stock, which may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We issued 6.88 million shares of our common stock in a public offering in September 2009. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, whether directly by us or by existing common stockholders in the secondary market, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In addition, we may issue other equity securities that are senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, to support operations and growth, to maintain our capital ratios and to comply with any future changes in regulatory standards. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the average daily trading volume for our common stock was approximately 59,000 shares. As a result, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all. Our common stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and preferred equity claims against our subsidiaries. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests in us and, as such, will rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of our subsidiaries’ liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors and preferred stockholders. 12 Our ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor the Bank has declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock since the Bank began operations in June 1985. Our Board of Directors intends to follow a policy of retaining earnings for the purpose of increasing the Company’s and the Bank’s capital for the foreseeable future. Although the Board of Directors anticipates establishing a cash dividend policy in the future, no assurance can be given that cash dividends will be paid. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose, after debt service payments and payments of dividends required to be paid on our outstanding preferred stock, if any. While we are not subject to certain restrictions on dividends applicable to a bank, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will depend to a large extent upon the amount of dividends paid by the Bank to us. Regulatory authorities restrict the amount of cash dividends the Bank can declare and pay without prior regulatory approval. Presently, the Bank cannot declare or pay dividends in any one year in excess of retained earnings for that year subject to risk based capital requirements. “Anti-takeover” provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, our articles of incorporation provide that our Board of Directors may issue up to 960,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, subject to the rights of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. In addition, “anti-takeover” provisions in our articles of incorporation and federal and state laws, including Pennsylvania law, may restrict a third party’s ability to obtain control of the Company and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and other five percent or greater shareholders own a significant percentage of our Company and could influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, our executive officers and directors as a group owned and had the right to vote approximately 12.2% of our outstanding stock and other five percent or greater shareholders owned and had the right to vote approximately 25.1% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders, acting together, would be able to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Metro. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may materially adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws, regulations or any applicable accounting principles may materially adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010 and will implement significant changes to the U.S. financial system. Information concerning this law is incorporated by reference to the discussion in this report under "Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation." Among the key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act is the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau), which will be an independent bureau within the Federal Reserve System with broad authority in the consumer finance industry. The Bureau will have exclusive authority through rulemaking, orders, policy statements, guidance and enforcement actions to administer and enforce federal consumer financial laws. These laws are currently administered by different federal agencies, including the FDIC and the Federal Reserve, current federal regulators of the Bank and Company, respectively. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company's financial position cannot be estimated at this time. As the required regulations are adopted by the applicable federal agencies and the various provisions of the new law are implemented, the Company will adopt the necessary policies and procedures to assure its compliance. Compliance with the Consent Order May Result in Significant Noninterest Expenses On April 29, 2010, the Bank consented and agreed to the issuance of a Consent Order (Order) by the FDIC, the Bank's federal banking regulator and a substantially similar consent order by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. Following issuance of the orders and the Bank's implementation of compliance measures, the Company believes this factor should be considered as possibly having a negative impact on the Company's liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.13 The Order requires the Bank to take all necessary steps, consistent with the Order and sound banking practices, to correct and prevent certain unsafe or unsound banking practices and violations of law or regulation alleged by the FDIC to have been committed by the Bank. Among other things, the Order requires certain analyses and assessments, including an analysis and assessment of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) staffing needs and qualifications and an analysis and assessment of the independence and performance of the Bank's directors and senior executive officers. It also requires the development, adoption and implementation of a system of internal controls designed to ensure full compliance with BSA and OFAC provisions; training programs to ensure that all appropriate personnel are aware of and can comply with applicable requirements of BSA and OFAC provisions; periodic reviews by internal and external auditors of compliance with BSA and OFAC provisions; and a review by an independent third party of the Bank's compliance with the Order. As the Bank proceeds with efforts to comply with the Order, it has retained consultants and advisors for assistance and has incurred significant consulting and legal fees in the necessary review, analysis and remediation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 