Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. 5 Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. Our results of operations are affected by the levels of business activities of our clients, which can be affected by economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions in our significant markets could undermine business confidence, both in those markets and other markets and cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives or terminate existing contracts, which would negatively affect our business. Growth in markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate, for an extended period of time. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve may affect demand for our services. A material portion of our revenues and profitability is derived from our clients in North America. Weakening in this market as a result of high government deficits, credit downgrades or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Ongoing economic volatility and uncertainty affects our business in a number of other ways, including making it more difficult to accurately forecast client demand beyond the short term and effectively build our revenue and resource plans, particularly in consulting. This could result, for example, in us not having the level of appropriate personnel where they are needed, and could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon building long-term relationships with our clients and our operating results could suffer if we fail to maintain these relationships. Our professional services agreements with clients are, in most cases, terminable on 10 to 30 days’ notice. A client may choose at any time to use another consulting firm, choose to perform services we provide through their own internal resources, choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project that involves multiple stages, or try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. Terminations, cancellations, or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including the business or financial conditions of the client, changes in ownership or management at our clients, and changes in client strategies, the economy, or markets generally. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated revenues and might not be able to replace, or it may take significant time to replace, the lost revenue with other work or eliminated associated costs. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. Additionally, termination of a relationship with a significant client or with a group of clients that account for a significant portion of our revenues could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We may not be able to attract and retain information technology consulting professionals, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract, train, retain, motivate, manage, and effectively utilize highly skilled information technology consulting professionals. There is often considerable competition for qualified personnel in the information technology services industry. Additionally, our technology colleagues are primarily at-will employees. We also use independent subcontractors where appropriate to supplement our employee capacity. Failure to retain highly skilled technology professionals or hire qualified independent subcontractors would impair our ability to adequately manage staff and implement our existing projects and to bid for or obtain new projects, which in turn would adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends on attracting and retaining senior management and key personnel. The information technology services industry is highly specialized and the competition for qualified management and key personnel is intense. We believe that our success depends on retaining our senior management team and key technical and business consulting personnel. Retention is particularly important in our business as personal relationships are a critical element of obtaining and maintaining strong relationships with our clients. In addition, as we grow our business, our need for senior experienced management and implementation personnel increases. If a significant number of these individuals resign, or if we are unable to attract top talent, our level of management, technical, marketing, and sales expertise could diminish or otherwise be insufficient for our growth. We may be unable to achieve our revenues and operating performance objectives unless we can attract and retain technically qualified and highly skilled sales, technical, business consulting, marketing, and management personnel. These individuals would be difficult to replace, and losing them could seriously harm our business. The market for the information technology consulting services we provide is competitive, has low barriers to entry, and is becoming increasingly consolidated, which may adversely affect our market position. The market for the information technology consulting services we provide is competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to rapid technological change. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into this market and therefore new entrants may compete with us in the future. For example, due to the rapid changes and volatility in our market, many well-capitalized companies, including some of our partners, that have focused on sectors of the software and services industry that are not competitive with our business may refocus their activities and deploy their resources to be competitive with us. 6 A significant amount of information technology services are being provided by lower-cost non-domestic resources. The increased utilization of these resources for U.S.-based projects could result in lower revenues and margins for U.S.-based information technology companies. Our ability to compete utilizing higher-cost domestic resources and/or our ability to procure comparably priced offshore resources could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our future financial performance will depend, in large part, on our ability to establish and maintain an advantageous market position. We currently compete with regional and national information technology consulting firms and, to a limited extent, offshore service providers and in-house information technology departments. Many of the larger regional and national information technology consulting firms have substantially longer operating histories, more established reputations and potential vendor relationships, greater financial resources, sales and marketing organizations, market penetration, and research and development capabilities, as well as broader product offerings, greater market presence, and name recognition. We may face increasing competitive pressures from these competitors. This may place us at a disadvantage to our competitors, which may harm our ability to grow, maintain revenues, or generate net income. In recent years, there has been consolidation in our industry and we expect that there will be additional consolidation in the future. As a result of this consolidation, we expect that we will increasingly compete with larger firms that have broader product offerings and greater financial resources than we have. We believe that this competition could have a negative effect on our marketing, distribution and reselling relationships, pricing of services and products, and our product development budget and capabilities. One or more of our competitors may develop and implement methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting their profit margins. In addition, competitors may win client engagements by significantly discounting their services in exchange for a client’s promise to purchase other goods and services from the competitor, either concurrently or in the future. These activities may potentially force us to lower our prices and suffer reduced operating margins. Any of these negative effects could significantly impair our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully against new or existing competitors. We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we do not protect client data or information systems or if our information systems are breached. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize, and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability, and damage to our reputation. International operations subject us to additional political and economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our business. We maintain a global development center in Hangzhou, China and a technology consulting recruiting and development facility in Chennai, India. We are subject to certain risks related to expanding our presence into non-U.S. regions, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies, and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Furthermore, there are risks inherent in operating in and expanding into non-U.S. regions, including, but not limited to: • political and economic instability; • global health conditions and potential natural disasters; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • international currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting American interests abroad. Any one or more of the factors set forth above could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 7 Immigration restrictions related to H1-B visas could hinder our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 16% of our billable workforce is comprised of skilled foreign nationals holding H1-B visas. We also own a recruiting and development facility in Chennai, India to continue to grow our base of H1-B foreign national colleagues. The H1-B visa classification enables us to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require the equivalent of at least a bachelor’s degree in the U.S. in a specialty occupation such as technology systems engineering and analysis. The H1-B visa generally permits an individual to work and live in the U.S. for a period of three to six years, with some extensions available. The number of new H1-B petitions approved in any federal fiscal year is limited, making the H1-B visas necessary to bring foreign employees to the U.S. unobtainable in years in which the limit is reached. If we are unable to obtain all of the H1-B visas for which we apply, our growth may be hindered. Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain favorable pricing. If we are not able to obtain favorable pricing for our services, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • general economic and political conditions; • our ability to differentiate, and/or clearly convey the value of, our services; • the pricing practices of our competitors, including the aggressive use by our competitors of offshore resources to provide lower-cost service delivery capabilities, or the introduction of new services or products by our competitors; • our clients’ desire to reduce their costs; • our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it; • our ability to accurately estimate, attain, and sustain contract revenues, margins, and cash flows over long contract periods; and • procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors. If our negotiated fees do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate fees with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions, including time and materials and fixed fee contracts. Our fees are highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. We could face greater risk when negotiating fees for our contracts that involve the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations and/or utilizing workforces with different skillsets and competencies. There is a risk that we will underprice our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work, or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings, or unexpected risks we encounter in connection with the performance of this work, including those caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margin. We may face potential liability to customers if our customers’ systems fail. Our technology solutions are often critical to the operation of our customers’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. If one of our customers’ systems fails, the customer could make a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for that failure. The limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable in all instances and may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. In addition, a given insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claims. Due to the nature of our business, it is possible that we will be sued in the future. If we experience one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases, the imposition of large deductible, or co-insurance requirements, our business and financial results could suffer. 8 Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants. Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments and offerings by new entrants to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Current areas of significant change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data. Technological developments such as these may materially affect the cost and use of technology by our clients. Our growth strategy focuses on responding to these types of developments by driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond our core business that will enable us to differentiate our services and solutions. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments and successfully drive innovation, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected. In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment, in which there currently are, and we expect will continue to be, new technology entrants. New services or technologies offered by competitors or new entrants may make our offerings less differentiated or less competitive, when compared to other alternatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot be sure that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us. These claims may harm our reputation, cause our management to expend significant time in connection with any defense, and cost us money. We may be required to indemnify clients for any expense or liabilities they incur resulting from claimed infringement and these expenses could exceed the amounts paid to us by the client for services we have performed. Any claims in this area, even if won by us, can be costly, time-consuming, and harmful to our reputation. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we help create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. Our ability to attract and retain business may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients’ evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the Perficient brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security breaches or service outages, or other delivery failures. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, competitors, vendors, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our efforts with regard to the recruitment and retention of employees and subcontractors. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Perficient brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price. The loss of one or more of our significant software vendors would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business relationships with software vendors enable us to reduce our cost of sales and increase win rates through leveraging our vendors’ marketing efforts and strong vendor endorsements. The loss of one or more of these relationships and endorsements could increase our sales and marketing costs, lead to longer sales cycles, harm our reputation and brand recognition, reduce our revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions could divert management's attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. If we pursue any acquisition, our management could spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to pursue the potential acquisition. To pay for an acquisition, we might use capital stock, cash, or a combination of both. Alternatively, we may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity may be reduced and the interest on any debt financing could adversely affect our results of operations. From an accounting perspective, an acquisition that does not perform as well as originally anticipated may involve amortization or the impairment of significant amounts of intangible assets that could adversely affect our results of operations. Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, and completion of due diligence with respect to these efforts, an acquisition may not produce the anticipated revenues, earnings, or business synergies for a variety of reasons, including: • the failure of management and acquired services personnel to perform as expected; • the acquisition of fixed fee customer agreements that require more effort than anticipated to complete; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience, including offshore operations in countries in which we have no prior experience; • the failure to identify or adequately assess any undisclosed or potential liabilities or problems of the acquired business including legal liabilities; • the failure of the acquired business to achieve the forecasts we used to determine the purchase price; or • the potential loss of key personnel of the acquired business. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and colleagues, increase our expenses, and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring, or integrating other businesses. We have continued our disciplined acquisition strategy designed to enhance our capabilities, expand in emerging markets or develop new services and solutions. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, succeed in completing targeted transactions, or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we acquire. We might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we make. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability, or competitive position in specific markets or services. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to control our costs. Our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency affects our profitability. Since the continuation of pricing pressures could result in permanent changes in pricing policies and delivery capabilities, we must continuously improve our management of costs. Our short-term cost reduction initiatives, which focus primarily on reducing variable costs, might not be sufficient to deal with all pressures on our pricing. Our long-term cost-reduction initiatives, which focus on reductions in costs for service delivery and infrastructure, rely upon our successful introduction and coordination of multiple geographic and competency workforces and a growing focus on our offshore capabilities. As we increase the number of our colleagues and execute our strategies for growth, we might not be able to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces, control our costs or improve our efficiency, and our profitability could be negatively affected. Many of our contracts include performance payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets. This could increase the variability of our revenues and margins. Many of our contracts include performance clauses that require us to achieve agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could reduce our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts. 10 Changes in our level of taxes, and tax audits, investigations and proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our corporate provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our judgments. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws. Furthermore, changes in tax laws, treaties, or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable and could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not effectively manage expected future growth, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our ability to operate profitably with positive cash flows depends partially on how effectively we manage our expected future growth. In order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate an increase in demand for our services, we may need to implement new or upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, open new offices, and hire additional colleagues. Implementation of these new or upgraded systems, procedures, and controls may require substantial management efforts and our efforts to do so may not be successful. The opening of new offices (including international locations) or the hiring of additional colleagues may result in idle or underutilized capacity. We continually assess the expected capacity and utilization of our offices and colleagues. We may not be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our offices and colleagues. If demand for our services does not meet our expectations, our revenues and cash flows may not be sufficient to offset these expenses and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We maintain allowances against receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly revenues, expenses, and operating results have varied in the past and could vary in the future, which could lead to volatility in our stock price. In addition, many factors affecting our operating results are outside of our control, such as: • demand for software and services; • customer budget cycles; • changes in our customers’ desire for our partners’ products and our services; • pricing changes in our industry; and • government regulation and legal developments regarding the use of the Internet. As a result, if we experience unanticipated changes in the number or nature of our projects or in our employee utilization rates, we could experience large variations in quarterly operating results. 11 Our revenues may fluctuate quarterly due to seasonality or timing of completion of projects. We may experience seasonal fluctuations in our services and software revenues. We expect that services revenues in the fourth quarter of a given year may typically be lower as there are fewer billable days as a result of vacations and holidays. Our software revenues may be higher in the fourth quarter of a given year as procurement policies of our clients may result in higher technology spending towards the end of budget cycles. While we seek to counterbalance periodic fluctuations in revenues, we may not be able to avoid declines in services revenues or increases in software revenues. Our inability to counterbalance these seasonal trends may materially affect our quarter-to-quarter revenues, margins and operating results. Our services gross margins are subject to fluctuations as a result of variances in utilization and billing rates. Our services gross margins are affected by trends in the utilization rate of our colleagues, defined as the percentage of our colleagues’ time billed to customers divided by the total available hours in a period, and in the billing rates we charge our clients. Our operating expenses, including salary, rent, and administrative expenses, are relatively fixed and cannot be reduced on short notice to compensate for unanticipated variations in the number or size of projects in process. If a project ends earlier than scheduled, we may need to redeploy our project personnel. Any resulting non-billable time may adversely affect our gross margins. The average billing rates for our services may decline due to rate pressures from significant customers and other market factors, including innovations and average billing rates charged by our competitors. If there is a sustained downturn in the U.S. economy or in the information technology services industry, rate pressure may increase. Also, our average billing rates will decline if we acquire companies with lower average billing rates than ours. To sell our products and services at higher prices, we must continue to develop and introduce new services and products that incorporate new technologies or high-performance features. If we experience pricing pressures or fail to develop new services, our revenues and gross margins could decline, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain profitability. Although we have been profitable for the past eight years, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future and in fact could experience decreased profitability. If we fail to meet public market analysts’ and investors’ expectations, the price of our common stock will likely fall. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely. Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “PRFT.” Our common stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of announcements of new services and products by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, the gain or loss of significant customers, and changes in public market analysts’ estimates and market conditions for information technology consulting firms and other technology stocks in general. We periodically review and consider possible acquisitions of companies that we believe will contribute to our long-term objectives. In addition, depending on market conditions, liquidity requirements, and other factors, from time to time we consider accessing the capital markets. These events may also affect the market price of our common stock. Our officers, directors, and 5% and greater stockholders own a large percentage of our voting securities and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors, and 5% and greater stockholders beneficially own or control approximately 24% of the voting power of our common stock. This concentration of voting power of our common stock may make it difficult for our other stockholders to successfully approve or defeat matters that may be submitted for action by our stockholders. It may also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control of our company. 12 We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. The raising of any additional capital may dilute your ownership percentage in our stock. We had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaling $9.7 million and a borrowing capacity of $50 million, and a commitment to increase our borrowing capacity by $25 million, at December 31, 2011. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds if our capital is insufficient to pursue business opportunities and respond to business challenges. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. It may be difficult for another company to acquire us, and this could depress our stock price. In addition to the voting securities held by our officers, directors, and 5% and greater stockholders, provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict some business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow the Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 