Risk Factors In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this report, including under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the factors described below should be considered carefully in making any investment decisions with respect to our securities. These factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity and cause investors in our securities to lose part or all of their investments. Risks Relating to Economic Conditions and the Financial Markets The obligation of the lenders to fund the $250 million amended credit facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, and there can be no assurances that these conditions will be satisfied. Even if the amended credit facility is funded upon the terms contemplated, we may not have sufficient liquidity to finance the ongoing obligations of our business, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our revolving credit facility and Term A loan facility are each scheduled to expire in August 2009. Given the impending expiration of both our revolving credit facility and Term A loan facility, on April 2, 2009, we amended our revolving credit facility, Term A loan facility and Term B loan facility to include commitments from certain of our lenders and certain new lenders to (a) replace the existing revolving credit facility with a $250 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of September 30, 2010 and (b) amend certain financial covenants, other covenants and other terms in our existing revolving credit facility, Term A loan facility and Term B loan facility. The obligation of the lenders to fund the $250 million amended credit facility and effectuate such amendments is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the amendment. While we believe that all such conditions will be met and that we will be in a position to close on the amended credit facility on or about May 11, 2009, there can be no assurance regarding these matters. The risk that we may not successfully complete this refinancing and obtain the related amendment of certain financial covenants included therein, and/or the risk that we may not have adequate liquidity to fund our operations as a result of not meeting our projected financial results, even if the refinancing is completed within the time and upon the terms contemplated, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans with respect to addressing these matters are discussed in greater detail under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, but generally include the closing of the amendment and extension of our revolving credit facility, as well as a cash management strategy intended to enhance and preserve as much of our liquidity as possible. Our future viability is dependent on our ability to execute these plans successfully or otherwise address our liquidity shortfall. If we fail to do so for any reason, we would not have adequate liquidity to fund our operations, would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our debt agreements could result in acceleration of our debt. Were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including our credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, may adversely affect our ability to finance 21 Table of Contents future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. The debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things: • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase other debt; • incur liens; • make loans, guarantees, acquisitions and investments; • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • amend or otherwise alter debt and other material agreements; • engage in mergers, acquisitions or asset sales; and • transact with affiliates. In addition, our debt covenants require that we maintain certain financial measures and ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial measures and ratios contained in the debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. During 2007, we were required to enter into an amendment to our credit agreement to modify or waive compliance with financial covenants thereunder. For an additional discussion of this amendment, please refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Structure.” Should the outstanding obligations under our credit agreement be accelerated and become due and payable because of our failure to comply with the applicable debt covenants in the future, we would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of our business. If amounts outstanding under the credit agreement were called by the lenders due to a covenant violation, amounts under other agreements, such as the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, could also become due and payable immediately. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because a very large majority of our assets have been secured as collateral under the credit agreement. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness, our credit ratings and the declining in-store rental industry in which we operate could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. Further, uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations has in the past caused some of our trade creditors to impose increasingly less favorable terms and future uncertainty could similarly result in unfavorable terms from our trade creditors. In addition, there are other situations (including a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, whereby the majority of directors who were serving on the Board at the time we entered into our credit agreement and indenture (or their successors or nominees) are no longer serving on the Board) where our debt may be accelerated and we may be unable to repay such debt. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations or force us to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to pay our debts and more necessary for us to divert our cash flow from operations to debt service payments. Our total debt under our credit facilities and senior subordinated notes as of January 4, 2009 was $780.9 million. Our debt service obligations could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. 22 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have important consequences for our business. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due during general adverse economic and market or industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to invest in certain strategic initiatives, and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors; • require a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements including inventory, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • cause our trade creditors to change their terms for payment on goods and services provided to us, thereby negatively impacting our ability to receive products and services on acceptable terms; and • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest. Additionally, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks above could intensify. Additional debt would further increase the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, and would further reduce our funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general purposes. Additional debt may also decrease our ability to refinance or restructure our indebtedness, and further limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. If we or our subsidiaries add new debt to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could increase. We may not have sufficient cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand and available borrowings under our credit facilities to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, industry and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our future cash flow will be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations, reducing, deferring or eliminating certain capital expenditures or operating expenses or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. In connection with our cash management plan we have initiated certain actions discussed elsewhere herein to eliminate or reduce certain expenses. However, we cannot assure you that any of these actions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or maintained once initiated, or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. In addition, our existing debt agreements, including the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our credit agreement, contain restrictive covenants which may prohibit us from adopting one or more of these alternatives, and any future debt agreements may contain similar restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts, which we may be unable to repay. If we are unable to repay our debt upon acceleration we may be forced to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Past and potential further downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our cost of borrowing and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. The major debt-rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt and rate our debt according to a number of factors, among which are, our perceived financial strength and transparency with rating agencies and timeliness 23 Table of Contents of financial reporting. On August 14, 2008, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded our probability of default rating to Caa1 from B3 based on refinancing challenges. However, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the rating on our credit facility to B1 from B3 on the same date as a result of our operating improvements. The downgrade in our probability of default rating could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. On March 4, 2009, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service placed our credit ratings on credit watch in light of the pending maturities of our revolving credit facility and Term A loan facility in August 2009. Any downgrade in our credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s could further adversely affect our ability to access capital upon acceptable terms and conditions. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations We cannot predict the impact that the following may have on our business: (i) new or improved technologies or video formats, (ii) alternative methods of content delivery or (iii) changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies or formats and alternative methods of content delivery. We also compete generally for the consumer’s entertainment dollar and leisure time. Advances in technologies such as video-on-demand, new video formats, downloading or alternative methods of content delivery or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted if: • newly released movies were to be made widely available by the studios to these technologies or these formats at the same time or before they are made available to home video retailers for rental; and • these technologies or new formats were to be widely accepted by consumers. Although we are pursuing, and may pursue in the future, initiatives related to alternative methods of content availability and delivery and believe that certain of these initiatives may be successfully integrated into our business model, we have limited experience with certain of these initiatives and cannot assure that they will be successful or profitable. The widespread availability of additional channels on satellite and digital cable systems may significantly reduce public demand for our products. Advances in direct broadcast satellite and cable technologies may also adversely affect consumer demand for video store rentals and sales. Direct broadcast satellite providers transmit numerous channels of programs by satellite transmission into subscribers’ homes. In addition, cable providers are taking advantage of digital technology to transmit many additional channels of television programs over cable lines to subscribers’ homes. Because of their increased availability of channels, direct broadcast satellite and digital cable providers have been able to enhance their pay-per-view businesses by: • substantially increasing the number and variety of movies they can offer their subscribers on a pay-per-view basis; and • providing more frequent and convenient start times for the most popular movies. In addition, pay-per-view allows the consumer to avoid trips to the video store for rentals and returns of movies. However, newly released movies are currently made available by the studios for rental prior to being made available on a pay-per-view basis. In addition, pay-per-view does not currently provide the same start, stop and rewind capabilities as DVD or video. If, however, direct broadcast satellite and digital cable services, including enhanced pay-per-view services, were to become more widely available and accepted, this could have a negative effect on our video store business. This is because a smaller number of movies may be rented or sold if viewers were to favor the expanded number of conventional channels and expanded content, including movies, specialty programming and sporting events, offered through these services. Additionally, increases in the size of the pay-per-view market could lead to an earlier distribution window for movies on pay-per-view if the studios were to perceive this to be a better way to maximize their revenues. 24 Table of Contents The availability of content through personal video recorders, video-on-demand and other technologies may significantly reduce the demand for our products or otherwise negatively affect our business. Any method for delivery of entertainment content that serves as an alternative to obtaining product or services from our stores or our online DVD rental service can impact our business. Examples of delivery methods that have impacted, or could impact, our business include: • personal video recorders, • video-on-demand, • download-to-burn DVDs, • video vending machines and download-to-burn kiosks, • video downloads to portable devices and personal computers, and • disposable DVDs. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition, are accretive to earnings and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. We also compete generally for the consumer’s entertainment dollar and leisure time with, among others, (i) movie theaters; (ii) Internet browsing, online gaming and other Internet-related activities; (iii) consumers’ existing personal movie libraries; (iv) live theater; (v) sporting events; and (vi) music entertainment. Our results can therefore fluctuate depending on the desirability of other forms of entertainment. Overall revenues generated from the in-store home video industry are projected to continue to decline. A faster than anticipated decline in the in-store industry has, in the past and may in the future, adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, particularly when considering sustained decreases in consumer spending attributable to the unprecedented decline in overall economic conditions, the reversal of which cannot be accurately determined. We continue to experience challenges caused by the faster than anticipated decline in the worldwide in-store home video rental industry. We believe that the faster than anticipated declines are caused primarily by (i) a weak slate of titles released to home video; (ii) increased competition from retail mass merchant sales of low-priced DVDs, online rentals, kiosk and vending rental and sales and other sources of in-home entertainment such as digital video recorders and other devices that are capable of downloading content for in-home viewing; (iii) competition from piracy in certain international markets; and (iv) competition from other forms of leisure entertainment. A faster than anticipated decline in the worldwide in-store home video rental industry in the future may similarly negatively impact our business and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will fully develop an ability to respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of content delivery, to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings and marketing and merchandising initiatives, or to selectively develop and maintain strategic alliances for products and services that meet and anticipate advances in technology and market trends. We have implemented and expect to continue to implement initiatives that are designed to enhance efficiency, customer convenience and our product offerings. In doing so, we are competing in markets for products and services that are highly competitive and subject to evolving industry standards and rapid adoption of technical innovation and product enhancements by competitors. The implementation of new initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by us of time and money and could be adversely 25 Table of Contents impacted by (i) our inability to timely implement and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure to support shifts in consumer preferences and any corresponding changes to our operating model, including continued support for our initiatives and (ii) the extent and timing of our continued investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures to continue to develop and implement our initiatives and our corresponding ability to effectively control overall operating expenses and capital expenditures. We are currently pursuing certain initiatives that are related to digital content distribution, kiosk vending and consumer electronic devices. In these areas we face substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital supplier relationships. We expect competition to intensify as competitors individually and collaboratively adopt new technologies to offer integrated solutions in these areas. Because we have limited experience with some of our new customer proposition initiatives, we cannot assure you that they will be profitable or successful in retaining customers. Our ability to effectively and timely prioritize and implement our initiatives will also affect when and if they will have a positive impact on our profitability. If the average sales and rental prices for our product are not at or above expected prices, our expected gross margins may be adversely affected. To achieve our expected revenues and gross margins, we need to sell and rent, as applicable, our product, including previously rented, retail and rental (whether in-store or online) product at or above expected prices. If the average sales or rental prices of such product are not at or above these expected prices, our revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. It is also important that we maximize our gross margins through our allocation of store space. We may need to turn our inventory of previously rented and retail product more quickly in the future in order to make room in our stores for additional DVDs, new customer proposition initiatives or to downsize the store. Therefore, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to rent or sell, on average, our product at or above the expected price. Other factors that could affect our ability to rent or sell our product at expected prices include: • consumer desire to rent any of our movies and games; • consumer desire to own a particular movie or game; • the amount of product available for rental or sale by others to the public; and • changes in the price of product by the studios or changes by other retailers, particularly mass merchant retailers. Our financial results are impacted by seasonality, including the adverse impact caused by improved weather conditions. There is a distinct seasonal pattern to the home video and video games business, with slower business in April and May, due in part to improved weather and Daylight Saving Time, and in September and October, due in part to the start of school and the introduction of new television programs. The months of November and December have historically been our highest revenue months. While we expect these months to continue to make the largest contributions to our rental revenues, we believe the strength of rental revenues in these months has been and will continue to be negatively affected, to some degree, by consumers purchasing DVDs during the holiday season. Although our online and in-store rental subscription offerings have helped us mitigate, to some extent, the impact of seasonality and weather conditions on our business by providing a more steady revenue stream across all months, seasonality and weather are expected to continue to impact our business and our period-to-period financial results in the future. 26 Table of Contents Our revenues could be adversely affected due to the variability in consumer appeal of the movie titles and game software released for rental and sale, as well as the effect of game platform cycles. The quality of movie titles and game software released for rental and sale is not within our control, and our results of operations have from time to time reflected the variability in consumer appeal for such items. We cannot assure you that future releases of movie titles and game software will appeal to consumers and, as a result, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our financial results could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively or if we are unable to reach agreements with service, product and content providers on favorable commercial terms, including on such matters as copy depth and uses of product. Our purchasing decisions are influenced by many factors, including, among others, gross margin considerations and supplier product return policies. While much of our retail movie product in the United States, but not outside the United States, is returnable to vendors, our investments in retail movie inventory may result in excess inventories in the event anticipated sales fail to materialize. In addition, returns of our games inventory, which is prone to obsolescence risks because of the nature of the industry, are subject to negotiation with vendors. Our purchasing decisions also involve predictions of consumer demand. While the historical growth of our in-store and online subscription programs and the free in-store rentals provided by our BLOCKBUSTER Total Access program have increased consumer demand for our products, these programs have increased the complexity of our purchasing decisions. In addition, the prevalence of multiple game platforms adds to the difficulty of accurately predicting consumer demand with respect to video games. The nature of and market for our products, particularly games and DVDs, also makes them prone to risk of theft and loss. Our operating results could therefore suffer if we are not able to: • obtain or maintain favorable terms from our suppliers with respect to such matters as copy depth, use of product, including without limitation fulfillment of online orders, and product returns; • maintain adequate copy depth to maintain customer satisfaction; • control shrinkage resulting from theft or loss; or • avoid significant inventory excesses that could force us to sell products at a discount or loss. Further, as discussed below, uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations has in the past caused some of our trade creditors to impose increasingly less favorable terms and future uncertainty could similarly result in unfavorable terms from our trade creditors. Our business would lose a competitive advantage if the movie studios were to shorten or eliminate the home video retailer distribution window or otherwise adversely change their current practices with respect to the timing of the release of movies to the various distribution channels. A competitive advantage that home video retailers currently enjoy over most other movie distribution channels, except theatrical release, is the early timing of the home video retailers’ distribution window. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, the studios’ current practice is to generally make their movies available to home video retailers (for rental and retail, including by mass merchant retailers) for specified periods of time. This distribution window has traditionally been exclusive against most other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, video-on-demand, premium television, basic cable, and network and syndicated television. The length of this exclusive distribution window for home video retailers varies, but since the mid-1990’s has averaged between 34 and 58 days for domestic home video retailers. Thereafter, movies are made sequentially available to television distribution channels. The studios’ traditional practices with respect to the distribution windows could change at any time. 27 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively affected if: • the home video retailer distribution windows were no longer the first following the theatrical release; • the length of the home video retailer distribution windows were shortened; or • the home video retailer distribution windows were no longer as exclusive as they are now. This is because newly released movies would be made available earlier on these other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, and consumers might no longer need to wait until after the home video retailer distribution window to view a newly released movie on one or more of these other distribution channels. In such event, we would need to address additional competition. According to industry statistics, more movies are now being released to pay-per-view at the shorter end of the home video retailer distribution window range than at the longer end. In addition, many of the major movie studios have entered into various ventures to provide video-on-demand or similar services of their own. Increased studio participation in or support of these types of services could impact their decisions with respect to the timing and exclusivity of the home video retailer distribution window. Recently, there has been increasing experimentation by studios and various movie content aggregators and retailers with the traditional distribution windows, including simultaneous video-on-demand and DVD releases. For example, although movie selections tend to be limited at present, consumers can now download to their computers certain available movies on the same day that the movie’s DVD is released by the studios nationwide in retail stores for rental or sale, and, in some cases, consumers can also burn the downloaded movie to a blank DVD for playback in a DVD player, allowing them to watch the movies on their TVs or portable devices. We expect that the movie studios will continue to assess the traditional release windows and it is possible that the studios may decide to alter the traditional home video retailer distribution window for an increasing number of movies, particularly in connection with simultaneous video-on-demand distribution of movies and DVD release dates. We believe that the studios have a significant interest in maintaining a viable home video retail industry. However, because the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the movie, we cannot predict the impact, if any, of any future decisions by the studios. In addition, any consolidation or vertical integration of media companies to include both content providers and digital distributors could pose a risk to the continuation of the home video retailer distribution window. Changes in studio pricing policies have resulted in increased competition, in particular from mass merchant retailers, which has impacted consumer rental and purchasing behavior. We cannot control or predict future studio decisions or resulting consumer behavior, and future changes could negatively impact our profitability. The studios’ current practice is generally to sequentially release their movies to different distribution channels. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, studios generally make their movies available to home video retailers (for rental and retail, including by mass merchant retailers) for a specified period of time. This distribution channel is typically exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, including cable and satellite distribution, and is commonly referred to as the home video retailers’ “distribution window.” Historically, at the beginning of a particular movie title’s distribution window, the movie in VHS format would be priced to home video retailers based on the applicable studio’s decision to promote the movie to the consumer either primarily for rental, or for both rental and sale, at the beginning of the distribution window. In order to promote a movie title primarily for rental at the beginning of the distribution window, a studio would initially release the title to home video retailers at a price that was too high to enable them to sell the title to consumers at an affordable price. As rental demand subsided, the studio would reduce the pricing for the movie, 28 Table of Contents which would then enable retailers to sell the title to consumers at an affordable price. The time during which the studios released the title at the higher pricing was commonly referred to as the “rental window.” Currently, substantially all DVD titles are initially released to home video retailers at a price that is low enough to allow them to offer movies at affordable prices to the consumer from the beginning of the home video retailers’ distribution window. This method of pricing is commonly referred to as “sell-through” pricing, and has improved our ability to purchase rental product at lower prices. However, the studios’ sell-through pricing policy has also led to increasing competition from other retailers, in particular mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Best Buy and Target. It has also led to increased competition from online retailers. These other retailers are able, due to the lower sell-through prices, to purchase DVDs for sale to consumers at the same time as traditional home video retailers, who, like us, purchase product for rental. In addition, some retailers lower their sales prices in order to increase overall traffic to their stores or businesses, and mass merchants may be more willing to sell at lower, or even below wholesale, prices to drive traffic and thereby increase sales of their other inventory items. All of these factors have increased consumer interest in purchasing DVDs, which has resulted in increased competition and reduced the significance of the historical rental window. We believe that the increased consumer purchases of movies have been due in part to consumer interest in building DVD libraries of classic movies and personal favorites and that the studios will remain dependent on traditional home video retailers to generate revenues for the studios from titles that are not classics or current box office hits. We therefore believe the importance of the video rental industry to the studios will continue to be a factor in studio pricing decisions. However, we cannot control or predict studio pricing policies with certainty, and we cannot assure you that consumers will not, as a result of further decreases in studio sell-through pricing and/or sustained or further depressed pricing by competitors, increasingly desire to purchase rather than rent movies. Personal DVD libraries could also cause consumers to rent or purchase fewer movies in the future. Our profitability could, therefore, be negatively affected further if, in light of any such consumer behavior, we were unable to (i) maintain or increase our rental business; (ii) replace gross profits from generally higher-margin rentals with gross profits from increased sales of generally lower-margin sell-through product; or (iii) otherwise positively affect gross profits, such as through price increases or cost reductions. Our ability to achieve one or more of these objectives is subject to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to compete effectively with other DVD retailers, some of whom may have competitive advantages such as the pricing flexibility described above or favorable consumer perceptions regarding value. Our profitability is also dependent on our ability to enter into arrangements with the studios that effectively balance cost considerations and the number of copies of a title stocked by us. Each type of arrangement provides different advantages and challenges for us. Our profitability could be negatively affected if studios were to make other changes in their pricing policies, which could include changes in revenue-sharing arrangements, pricing or rental windows for DVDs or expanded exploitation by studios of international two-tiered pricing laws, which allow studios to charge different prices for movies intended for rental to consumers, as opposed to sale. In addition, we cannot predict what use the studios might make of current or future alternative supply methods, such as downloading to stores or consumers, or what impact the use of such supply chain changes by us or our competitors might have on our profitability. Industry consolidation in the in-store home video rental industry has occurred and may continue. If we are not successful in capitalizing on this industry consolidation, our financial results may be adversely affected. Based upon current industry projections, we believe that over-capacity exists in the video rental market and that, as a result, many video stores, including some of our own stores, will be forced to close in the future. If we are unable to capitalize on the store closings of our competitors, we may be unable to grow our market share and our financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, we have historically closed underperforming video stores and will continue to consider the closure of underperforming stores. We are currently reviewing many of our store leases and evaluating certain sites to close or downsize based on store profitability. 29 Table of Contents Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. We have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies and initiatives. Such opportunities may also involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset expenses associated with the strategy or initiative, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not initially contemplated or discovered. Because these new strategies and initiatives may be relatively new for us, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. For certain of our customer proposition initiatives we may rely on third-party digital content, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition to offering our own digital content from time to time we may contract with third parties to offer their digital content through our stores or alternative aggregation and content delivery products and services. In those cases, we could pay substantial fees to obtain rights to offer such content. Our licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers may be short-term and may not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms. Some third-party content providers may also offer competing products and services, or offer similar content to our competitors, and could take action to make it more difficult for us to license their content in the future. If we are unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand our systems and platforms and customer offerings for these relatively new customer proposition initiatives, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Third-party content providers may require that we provide certain digital rights management and other security solutions. If these requirements change we may have to develop or license new technology to provide such solutions. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs are important to the continued implementation of our new customer proposition initiatives, as well as the operation of our business generally. To avoid technology obsolescence and enable future cost savings and customer enhancements, we are continually updating our information technology infrastructure. In addition, we intend to add new features and functionality to our products, services and systems that could result in the need to develop, license or integrate additional technologies. Our inability to add additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of our new customer proposition initiatives, service interruptions, impaired quality or speed of the users’ experience and the diversion of development resources. Our failure to provide new features or functionality to our systems also could result in these consequences. We may not be able to effectively upgrade and expand our systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and we may not be able to smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to improve our business. In addition, any failure of our existing information technology infrastructure could result in significant additional costs to us. Certain of our information technology services and support functions are performed by third parties. Service interruptions, contract disputes or the effect of general market conditions on these service providers could adversely impact the availability and reliability of service and support. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our franchisees failed to pay our franchise fees. In certain areas within the United States and internationally, we rely on our franchisees to offer our products and services. A portion of our revenues are derived from royalty fees through our franchising program. Many of 30 Table of Contents our franchisees have been negatively affected by the depressed economic conditions over the past 12 months. We may experience difficulties in collecting our franchise fees on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the inability of our franchisees to achieve sufficient revenues and cash flows from their stores or to otherwise effectively operate their stores under challenging industry conditions. Some of our franchisees have perceived certain of our recent customer proposition initiatives as conflicting with their business interests. Lawsuits and other disputes with our franchisees may also reduce the amount of our royalties from franchise fees. Any failure by our franchisees to pay their franchise fees to us on time or at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Piracy of the products we offer or the disregard of release dates by other retailers may adversely affect our operations. Although piracy is illegal, it is a significant threat to the home video industry. The primary methods of piracy affecting the home video industry are (i) the illegal copying of theatrical films at the time they are first run; (ii) the illegal copying of DVDs that are authorized by the studios solely for retail sale and/or rental by authorized retailers; and (iii) the illegal online downloading of movies. These methods of piracy enable the low-cost sale of DVDs as well as the free viewing and sharing of DVDs, both of which compete with rentals and sales by authorized retailers like us. Competition from piracy has increased in recent years due in part to developments in technology that allow for faster copying and downloading of DVDs. Although piracy is a concern in the United States, it is having a more significant adverse affect on the home video industry in international markets. We cannot assure you that movie studios and others with rights in the product that we rent or sell can, or will, take steps to enforce their rights against piracy or that they will be successful in preventing the distribution of pirated content. Increases in piracy could continue to negatively affect our revenues. For example, in 2006, we closed all of our store locations in Spain, driven in part by the impact of piracy in that market. Another risk that we face is the disregard by other home video retailers of the studios’ specified release dates for their titles. If other home video retailers rent or sell product before the specified release dates (i.e., before us), we can be adversely affected, as the first weeks after a movie title’s release typically represent a significant portion of the demand for that title. We cannot assure you that the studios can or will control such distribution and release practices, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Our business model is substantially dependent on the functionality of our distribution centers. Our domestic distribution system for our store-based operations is centralized. We ship a substantial portion of the products to our U.S. company-operated stores through our distribution center. We also have 38 regional U.S. distribution centers to support our domestic online DVD subscription service. If our distribution centers became non-operational for any reason, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our movies and other products. In international markets, we utilize a variety of distribution methodologies with similar risks to those in the United States. The application of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” resulted in the recognition of a significant non-cash impairment charge for the quarter ended January 4, 2009, which has materially adversely affected our results of operations for the fourth quarter and the 2008 fiscal year. The application and impact of existing and future accounting policies or interpretations of existing accounting policies for future economic developments may further negatively impact our financial results. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets referred to as “SFAS 142,” we test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. In recent periods we have taken significant charges relating to the impairment of goodwill. See Note 31 Table of Contents 2 to the consolidated financial statements and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates” in this Form 10-K. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, we performed our annual impairment test as of October 31, 2008. The test indicated that the goodwill associated with our domestic reporting unit was impaired. Therefore, we recognized a $432.6 million goodwill impairment charge during the fourth quarter of 2008. The market price of our Class A common stock has been subject to substantial volatility and has decreased significantly during the first quarter of 2009. We believe that the need for an interim impairment test may be triggered by, among other factors, declines in the media entertainment industry, a reduction in our profitability, or a sustained decline in our stock price. Consequently, we may need to perform an interim impairment test and may recognize an additional non-cash goodwill impairment charge during 2009. Our goodwill balance totaled $338.1 million as of January 4, 2009. Any additional required non-cash impairment charge could significantly reduce this balance and have a material impact on our reported financial position and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The significant price and volume volatility in our common stock may continue not only as a result of generally depressed market conditions but also any change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations, business model, business prospects or ability to refinance our debt obligations. The price at which our common stock has traded in recent periods has fluctuated greatly, and most recently has declined significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our operating results; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans of others; • competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; • perceptions regarding the current and long-term viability of our business model and the success of ongoing and proposed strategic initiatives; • market volatility in general; and • the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we have become the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more of such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s continued listing criteria. Our Class A and Class B common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“Exchange”) and are thereby subject to certain continued listing criteria established by the Exchange in order to maintain listing on the Exchange. Among such criteria is the requirement that the Class A stock maintain a $1.00 minimum average 32 Table of Contents closing price. If the average closing price of the Class A stock is below $1.00 for any consecutive 30-trading-day period, the Class A and Class B stock will be delisted and moved to the Exchange’s ARCA electronic exchange. The price at which the Class A stock has traded in recent periods has fluctuated greatly, and most recently has declined significantly, trading at prices at or below $1.00. If we are unable to maintain the Exchange listing for the Class A and Class B stock as a result of our failure to continue to comply with this, or any, minimum listing requirement, the Class A and Class B shares may be perceived as a less desirable investment, negatively affecting the market for the stock, which could decrease our ability to issue new stock and attract further equity investment. A delisting could also worsen the perception of the company’s financial distress among our lenders, trade creditors, business partners, vendors, analysts and the media, which could cause some of our trade creditors to impose increasingly less favorable terms and make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing and develop strategic alliances. In February 2009, the NYSE suspended its $1 minimum average closing price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. The effect of this suspension is that companies that fall below the $1 minimum price criteria during the suspension period will not be deemed to be below the Exchange’s continued listing criteria while the suspension is in place. Other Business Risks Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we lose key senior management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. During 2007 we hired new members of our senior management team from outside of Blockbuster, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel. Our performance depends in part on the ability of this largely new senior management team to coalesce, motivate our employees and address the changes presented by our dynamic industry and the challenging economic conditions. Additionally, we rely upon the continued service and availability of skilled personnel in technical, operations and staff positions. The unexpected future loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business. We will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage management-level employees. We have relied on equity awards as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which could cause us to reduce the number of stock-based awards issued to employees and could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Additionally, significant adverse volatility in our stock price could result in a stock option’s exercise price exceeding the underlying stock’s market value, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. In addition, recent cost containment initiatives affecting our compensation practices that have been adopted in response to the current economic environment will also impact our ability to attract and maintain personnel to some extent, depending upon the length of time during which these initiatives remain in effect. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. We are subject to governmental regulation particular to the retail home video industry and changes in U.S. or international laws may adversely affect us. Any finding that we have been, or are, in noncompliance with respect to, or otherwise liable under, the laws affecting our business could result in costs, including, among other things, governmental penalties or private litigant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to various international and U.S. federal and state laws that govern the offer and sale of our franchises because we act as a franchisor. In addition, because we operate video stores and develop new video stores, we are subject to various international and U.S. federal and state laws that govern, among other things, the disclosure and retention of our video rental records and access to and use of our video stores by disabled persons, and are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local advertising, consumer protection, credit protection, franchising, licensing, zoning, 33 Table of Contents land use, construction, trading activities, second-hand dealer, minimum wage and labor and other employment regulations, as well as laws and regulations relating to the protection and cleanup of the environment and health and safety matters. The international home video and video game industry varies from country to country due to, among other things, legal standards and regulations, such as those relating to foreign ownership rights; unauthorized copying; intellectual property rights; movie ratings, which in many countries are legal standards unlike the voluntary standards of the United States; labor and employment matters; trade regulation and business practices; franchising and taxation; environmental matters; and format and technical standards. Our obligation to comply with, and the effects of, the above governmental regulations are increased by the magnitude of our operations. Changes in existing laws, including environmental and employment laws, adoption of new laws or increases in the minimum wage, may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect us. For example, the repeal or limitation in the United States of certain favorable copyright laws would have an adverse impact in the United States on our rental business. Similarly, the adoption or expansion of laws in any other country to allow copyright owners to charge retailers more for rental product than for sell-through product could have an adverse impact on our rental business in that country. We are subject to business risks of international operations. We derive a material portion of our revenue through our international operations. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies. Margins on the sale and rental of our products in foreign countries could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations. We have assumed obligations pursuant to agreements with Viacom relating to certain real estate leases guaranteed by Viacom, which obligations may adversely affect our ability to negotiate renewals or modifications to a subset of such leases. In October 2004, we completed our divestiture from Viacom. We entered into an amended and restated initial public offering and split-off agreement with Viacom in connection with this divestiture. This agreement, which is referred to as the “IPO agreement,” imposes various restrictions and limitations on our ability to renew or modify, in a manner that increases Viacom’s potential liability, a subset of the leases guaranteed by Viacom, which could make it more difficult and expensive, and in some cases impossible, to renew or modify certain of these leases. We have also assumed obligations pursuant to the IPO agreement to maintain letters of credit in favor of Viacom, which obligations reduce our borrowing capacity. Pursuant to the IPO agreement, we have provided letters of credit, at Viacom’s expense, for the benefit of Viacom to support Viacom’s potential liability for certain real estate lease obligations of ours. On October 24, 2008, we entered into an amendment to the IPO Agreement. Pursuant to the amendment, the face amount of the letters of credit required to be provided by us for the benefit of Viacom was reduced from $150.0 million to $75.0 million and the conditions on which Viacom may draw on the letters of credit were amended. In addition, in the amendment, we assumed responsibility for the payment of any and all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the establishment and maintenance of the letters of credit. As a result of the amendment our available borrowing capacity increased by $75.0 million. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the MD&A in this Form 10-K. Until the letters of credit or any renewals thereof are terminated, we anticipate any future or additional lenders may treat our letter of credit obligation as if it were outstanding indebtedness when assessing our 34 Table of Contents borrowing capacity. Furthermore, if we are unable to renew or otherwise replace the letters of credit prior to their expiration as required by the IPO agreement, Viacom has the right to draw down the full amount of the outstanding letters of credit, which may cause us to borrow funds under our credit facility to reimburse the issuing bank. In either case, our obligation to maintain the letters of credit may restrict or prevent us from being able to borrow amounts necessary to engage in favorable business activities, consummate strategic acquisitions or otherwise fund capital needs. We are subject to various litigation matters that could, if judgments were to be rendered against us, have an adverse effect on our operating results. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, we may from time to time enter into material settlements. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain pending material litigation matters relating to our business. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make it more difficult to acquire our Company. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (“certificate of incorporation”) and amended and restated bylaws (“bylaws”) contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call special meetings of stockholders to any officer at the request of a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors may by resolution establish one or more series of preferred stock, having such number of shares, designation, relative voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation or other rights, preferences and limitations as may be fixed by the Board of Directors without any further stockholder approval. Such rights, preferences, privileges and limitations as may be established could have the effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our equity securities. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 