Item 1A. Risk Factors. The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other applicable securities laws. Such statements can be identified by the use of the forward-looking words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “hope,” “risk,” “could,” “plan,” “pro forma,” “potential” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections regarding future developments, operations or financial conditions, or state other forward-looking information. These forward-looking statements involve various important risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results for 2006 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. 10 Table of Contents The following factors, among others, could affect our future financial performance and cause actual future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K: We may not be able to maintain comparable store sales growth Our comparable store sales performance has fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis and is expected to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • economic conditions; • weather conditions; • changing fashion trends; • competition; • new store openings in existing markets; • store remodeling and expansions; • customer response to new and existing styles; • procurement and management of merchandise inventory; and • development and growth of our Justice brand. As a result of these and other factors, we may not achieve or be able to maintain comparable store sales growth in the future. Our stock price may be materially affected by fluctuations in our comparable store sales. We must identify and respond to fashion trends and satisfy customer demands in order to continue to succeed Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate the desired fashion trends of our customers and offer merchandise which appeals to them on a timely and affordable basis. We expect our customers’ desired fashion trends to change frequently. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may be adversely affected and we may have excess inventories. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions which could increase selling, general and administrative costs or take markdowns, which could reduce our gross income. Our brand image may also suffer if our customers believe that our merchandise misjudgments indicate that we are no longer able to offer them the latest fashions. We may be unable to compete successfully in our highly competitive segment of the retail industry The tween girls retail apparel and accessories industry is highly competitive. We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We also compete with direct marketers who, like us, target customers through catalogs, internet shopping capabilities and other distribution channels. Our success continues to attract many new competitors to enter the market. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of our market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. In many cases, our primary competitors are located in the same shopping centers as our stores thereby offering an alternative shopping experience to our customer, and in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms. 11 Table of Contents We depend on a high volume of mall and power center traffic to generate sales Our stores are located in both shopping malls and power centers. Our sales depend, in part, on the high volume of traffic in those shopping areas. Our stores benefit from the traffic generated by the shopping area’s anchor tenants, generally large department and specialty stores. Mall and power center traffic, and consequently our sales volume, may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from other retailers, success of retail centers where we do not have stores, and the closing of anchor tenants. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a particular mall or power center or an overall decline in the popularity of mall and power center shopping among our target consumers could decrease revenues and associated gross income. Expansion into new and existing markets creates challenges Our expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, design and distribution challenges that differ from our current challenges. These challenges include competition among our stores and brands, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution center and additional information to be processed by our information systems. New stores in new markets, including international markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and our brands are less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets. Expansion into new markets could also bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. To the extent that we are not able to overcome these new challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating costs could rise. Effectiveness of store remodels is unpredictable In order to maintain a fresh, clean and positive shopping environment for our target customers, we periodically remodel a portion of our existing store locations. The targeted effects of a store remodel include increased store traffic and sales. However, since the effect of a particular store remodel can not be predicted, there can be no guarantee that a store remodel will have a positive effect on store traffic or sales. Additionally, a remodel may cause a short-term disruption to our business at a particular location. The market for prime real estate is competitive In order to sustain growth, our strategy requires securing desirable retail lease space and opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase the number of our retail stores in our brands will depend in part on the availability of suitable store sites. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to execute favorable real estate transactions, hire competent personnel and develop these new stores, our growth may not be sustainable. Our future success depends upon brand awareness and the effectiveness of our marketing programs Our future success depends upon our ability to effectively define, evolve and promote our lifestyle brands. In order to achieve and maintain significant brand name recognition, we will need to invest in the development of the brands through various means, including customer research, advertising and promotional events, direct mail marketing, internet marketing and other measures. Certain external costs may be subject to price fluctuations such as increases in the cost of mailing, paper or printing catazine and other direct mail promotions. We can provide no assurance that the marketing strategies we implement and the investments we make will be successful in building significant brand awareness or attracting new customers. 12 Table of Contents Our licensed Limited Too and registered Justice brands are integral to our brand strategy We currently license the Limited Too brand name and have a federal registration for the Justice trademark and other trademarks in the United States. We have also applied for or obtained a registration for Justice in most of the foreign countries in which our vendors are located. We cannot assure you that the registrations we have obtained will be adequate to prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party imitates our products, consumers may be confused and that third party may gain sales at our expense, and if any such products are manufactured or marketed in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be adversely affected. In addition, our right to operate under the Limited Too brand is governed by an exclusive trademark and service mark licensing agreement with Limited Brands. The agreement is renewable annually, at our option. In return, we are required to provide Limited Brands with the right to inspect our stores and distribution facilities and the ability to review our advertising. Limited Brands has the right to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, specifically if: • we breach any of our obligations under the agreement and do not cure the breach within 60 days after receiving notice of the breach; • we become bankrupt or insolvent; or • we experience a change of control. The agreement also restricts the way in which we use the licensed brand in our business. We may only use the brand name Limited Too in connection with any business in which we sell to our Limited Too target customer group. Although we currently market only to tweens, our licensing agreement allows us to market to infants and toddlers as well. If in the future we are unable to use the Limited Too brand, we will be forced to change our brand name. Because much of our merchandise is currently sold under the Limited Too label in stores called “Limited Too,” a name change might cause confusion for our customers and adversely affect our brand recognition and our sales. We would need to expend substantial resources, which we can not estimate at this time, to rename our stores, to produce new merchandise and to establish brand recognition if we were required to change our brand. Talented personnel are critical to our success Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our senior executive officers. The loss of any member could impact our ability to bring desirable products to market or effectively manage our internal operations. Such a loss could reduce future revenues, increase costs, or both. Our success in the future will also depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain talented and qualified personnel. We may not be able to sustain a growth rate sufficient to implement our expansion strategy We have continued to grow rapidly over the past few years. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to sustain this growth at a rate consistent with our past. Our future growth prospects depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • find suitable markets and sites for our stores and negotiate leases on acceptable terms for those stores; 13 Table of Contents • fulfill our plans to open new stores and remodel or expand existing stores; • continue to develop our sales channels, including our direct-to-consumer operations; • identify suitable franchise operators for our international expansion initiative; • expand our infrastructure to accommodate our growth, including maintaining high levels of customer service; • attract, train and retain qualified sales associates; • manage our inventory effectively, maintain sufficient distribution capacity and deliver our merchandise in a timely manner; • keep up with constantly shifting fashion trends and develop new and appealing merchandise; and • maintain continued success for our Justice brand. We will require substantial capital expenditures to implement our business strategy, in particular our opening of new stores and remodeling or expansion of our existing stores. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing under our credit facility or from other sources on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. There would be risks associated with launching and maintaining a new brand As we continue to grow our business, we may take advantage of certain opportunities created by the development of new brand concepts. The ability to succeed in any new potential concept requires significant capital expenditures and management attention. Potential new concepts are subject to certain other risks including: • customer acceptance of the new brand and its products; • competition, both external and internal; • product and brand differentiation among our already-existing brands; and • the ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel including management and designers. We can provide no assurance that we will develop a new concept or, if we do, that the new concept will grow or become profitable. If we attempt to develop and grow a new brand and do not succeed, this could adversely impact the continued growth of our existing brands and our results of operations. Our business fluctuates on a seasonal basis We experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales and net income, with a disproportionate amount of our sales and a majority of our net income typically realized during our fourth quarter due to sales from the holiday shopping period. We also generate significant sales during the back-to-school period in the third quarter. Any decrease in sales or margins during those periods could reduce future annual profit margins and reduce future operational cash flow. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels as we typically order merchandise in advance of the peak selling periods and often before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. As such, 14 Table of Contents we carry a significant amount of inventory before the Christmas holiday and back-to-school selling periods. Forecasting errors and changing customer buying behaviors may result in excess inventory, which may lead to markdowns and inventory valuation adjustments. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions and consumer spending patterns Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable local, regional, national or international economic conditions, including the effects of war, terrorism, natural disasters and widespread health concerns, or the threats thereof. Our business is also impacted by inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, changes in tax rates and tax policies, and unemployment trends. Additionally, shifts in our customers’ discretionary spending to other goods, including music, entertainment and electronic products could also adversely affect our revenues and associated margins. Overall, we can provide no assurance on how these conditions will impact our business. We rely on a single distribution center We rely on one distribution center to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our stores. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution center due to natural disasters and severe weather, as well as events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures or other unforeseen causes could damage a significant portion of our inventory. These factors may also impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could ultimately increase our costs associated with our supply chain. We rely on foreign sources of production We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore we depend on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our merchandise. We source a large majority of our merchandise from foreign factories located primarily in East and Southeast Asia. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in that region. We compete with many other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Our business also faces a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability; • currency and exchange risks; • local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; • changes in trade restrictions, duties, tariffs or quotas; • international health concerns; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • inability to meet our quality standards. Our future performance will depend upon these factors, which are beyond our control. 15 Table of Contents We are pursuing a strategy of international expansion We currently have 19 licensed stores in certain Middle Eastern countries and may expand into other countries in the future. In addition to the general risks associated with doing business in foreign markets, as stated above, we run the risk of not being able to sustain our growth in these international markets or have a strong enough expansion strategy to allow us to penetrate new international markets in the future. As we penetrate these markets, there is increased risk of not fully complying with existing and future laws, rules and regulations of countries where we conduct business. As with any future business strategy, we can provide no assurance that our current and future international endeavors will be successful. We source merchandise through our internal sourcing offices in Asia We source a portion of our merchandise through our offices in Asia, allowing us to bypass agents, brokers and middlemen and establish and develop increased direct relationships with factories and reduce our sourcing costs. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our selling margins may decrease which could negatively impact our profitability as a business. We intend to increase our direct sourcing efforts in the future; however, we can provide no assurance that this will be profitable. We will need to comply with existing and new laws and regulations that govern us Various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations including, for example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, much of our personal care and lifestyle merchandise is subject to various regulations promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. A significant change in the regulatory environment applicable to our operations or merchandise could increase our costs associated with compliance including increased product costs resulting from any new regulations. Further, as we expand our merchandise assortment and increase the number of our suppliers to accommodate our growth, it may become more difficult or costly to comply with existing and new regulations, which could reduce margins and profits. We are implementing new information systems In addition to modifying and replacing our systems related to sourcing and distributing merchandise, we continue to evaluate and are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to our information technology systems for markdown optimization, merchandise planning and allocation, real estate, data warehouse and financial systems. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. The launch of these successor systems will take place in a phased approach over an approximate five-year period that began in 2005. We can provide no assurance that the implementation process will be successful or will occur as planned and without disruptions to operations. Information technology system disruptions could affect our ability to monitor and track our business performance. 16 Table of Contents The expensing of stock options could negatively impact our future reported earnings The Financial Accounting Standards Board has recently issued new accounting standards requiring all publicly traded companies to begin recording compensation expense related to all unvested and newly granted stock options. Currently, we include such expenses on a pro-forma basis in the notes to our quarterly and annual financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and do not include compensation expense related to stock options in our reported earnings in the financial statements. When we adopt this standard in the first quarter of Fiscal 2006, our reported earnings will be impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No such unresolved comments exist. 