ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors, in addition to other factors and matters discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that Puget Energy and PSE may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may impair PSE’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, Puget Energy’s and PSE’s business, results of operations and financial conditions would suffer.RISKS RELATING TO PSE’s REGULATORY AND RATE-MAKING PROCEDURESPSE's regulated utility business is subject to various federal and state regulations. PSE's regulatory risks include, but not limited to, the following: The actions of regulators can significantly affect PSE’s earnings, liquidity and business activities.The rates that PSE is allowed to charge for its services is the single most important item influencing its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE is highly regulated and the rates that it charges its wholesale and retail customers are determined by both the Washington Commission and the FERC.27PSE is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Washington Commission with respect to accounting, operations, the issuance of securities and certain other matters, and the regulatory authority of the FERC with respect to the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at the wholesale level, accounting and certain other matters. In addition, proceedings with the Washington Commission typically involve multiple stakeholder parties, including consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or decreasing rates. Policies and regulatory actions by these regulators could have a material impact on PSE’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity.PSE’s recovery of costs is subject to regulatory review and its operating income may be adversely affected if its costs are disallowed.The Washington Commission determines the rates PSE may charge to its electric retail customers based, in part, on historic costs during a particular test year, adjusted for certain normalizing adjustments. Power costs on the other hand, are normalized for market, weather and hydrological condition during the applicable rate year, the ensuing 12-month period before rates become effective. The Washington Commission determines the rates PSE may charge to its natural gas customers based on historic costs during a particular test year. Natural gas costs are adjusted through the PGA mechanism, as discussed previously. If in a specific year PSE’s costs are higher than the amounts used by the Washington Commission to determine the rates, revenue may not be sufficient to permit PSE to earn its allowed return or to cover its costs. In addition, the Washington Commission has the authority to determine what level of expense and investment is reasonable and prudent in providing electric and natural gas service. If the Washington Commission decides that part of PSE’s costs do not meet the standard, those costs may be disallowed partially or entirely and not recovered in rates. For the aforementioned reasons, the rates authorized by the Washington Commission may not be sufficient to earn the allowed return or recover the costs incurred by PSE in a given period.PSE is currently subject to a Washington Commission order that requires PSE to share its excess earnings above the authorized rate of return with customers.The Washington Commission previously approved an electric and natural gas decoupling mechanism for the recovery of its delivery-system costs, along with an ERF, a rate plan and an earnings sharing mechanism that requires PSE and its customers to share in any earnings in excess of the authorized rate of return of 7.77% during the term of the rate plan. The earnings test is done for each service (electric/natural gas) separately, so PSE would be obligated to share the earnings for one service exceeding the threshold, even if the other service did not meet the earnings test. PSE has been in a stay out period, during which time it could not file for general rate increases (unless for emergency rate relief). PSE must file a GRC no later than April 1, 2016, at which time the decoupling mechanism will be subject to continuation pending the result of the 2016 GRC, which PSE plans to file in March 2016.The PCA mechanism, by which variations in PSE’s power costs are apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to a graduated scale, could result in significant increases in PSE’s expenses if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate.PSE has a PCA mechanism that provides for recovery of power costs from customers or refunding of power cost savings to customers, as those costs vary from the “power cost baseline” level of power costs which are set, in part, based on normalized assumptions about weather and hydrological conditions. Excess power costs or power cost savings will be apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to the graduated scale set forth in the PCA mechanism. As a result, if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate, PSE’s expenses could significantly increase.28RISKS RELATING TO PSE’s OPERATIONPSE’s cash flow and earnings could be adversely affected by potential high prices and volatile markets for purchased power, recurrence of low availability of hydroelectric resources, outages of its generating facilities or a failure to deliver on the part of its suppliers.The utility business involves many operating risks. If PSE’s operating expenses, including the cost of purchased power and natural gas, significantly exceed the levels recovered from retail customers, its cash flow and earnings would be negatively affected. Factors which could cause PSE's purchased power and natural gas costs to be higher than anticipated include, but are not limited to, high prices in western wholesale markets during periods when PSE has insufficient energy resources to meet its energy supply needs and/or purchases in wholesale markets of high volumes of energy at prices above the amount recovered in retail rates due to:•Below normal levels of generation by PSE-owned hydroelectric resources due to low streamflow conditions or precipitation;•Extended outages of any of PSE-owned generating facilities or the transmission lines that deliver energy to load centers, or the effects of large-scale natural disasters on a substantial portion of distribution infrastructure; and•Failure of a counterparty to deliver capacity or energy purchased by PSE.PSE’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. PSE owns and operates coal, natural gas-fired, hydroelectric, wind-powered and oil-fired generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels or increase expenditures, including:•Facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;•Volatility in prices for fuel and fuel transportation;•Disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories;•Regulatory compliance obligations and related costs, including any required environmental remediation, and any new laws and regulations that necessitate significant investments in our generating facilities; •Labor disputes;•Operator error or safety related stoppages;•Terrorist or other attacks (both cyber-based and/or asset-based); and•Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions or acts of nature.If PSE is unable to protect its physical assets from terrorist attacks or its information technology infrastructure and network against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, its operations could be disrupted.Despite PSE's implementation of security measures, its physical assets and technology systems may be vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive, confidential and other data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, these physical asset or cyber-based attacks could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products and could affect the reliability or operability of the electric and natural gas systems. As a result, PSE endeavors to maintain vigilant security programs and procedures to protect against the continuous threat of physical asset and cyber-based attacks, and as a result, PSE may be required to expend significant dollars and other resources to protect against existing and ensuing threats.PSE is subject to the commodity price, delivery and credit risks associated with the energy markets. In connection with matching PSE's energy needs and available resources, PSE engages in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity and energy and, accordingly, is subject to commodity price risk, delivery risk, credit risk and other risks associated with these activities. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties owing PSE money or energy will breach their obligations for delivery of energy supply or contractually required payments related to PSE's energy supply portfolio. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, PSE may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, PSE’s financial results could be adversely affected. Although PSE takes into account the expected probability of default by counterparties, the actual exposure to a default by a particular counterparty could be greater than predicted.29Costs of compliance with environmental, climate change and endangered species laws are significant and the costs of compliance with new and emerging laws and regulations and the incurrence of associated liabilities could adversely affect PSE’s results of operations.PSE’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental issues, including air emissions and climate change, endangered species protection, remediation of contamination, avian protection, waste handling and disposal, decommissioning, water protection and siting new facilities. To fulfill these legal requirements, PSE must spend significant sums of money to comply with these measures including resource planning, remediation, monitoring, analysis, mitigation measures, pollution control equipment and emissions related abatement and fees. New environmental laws and regulations affecting PSE’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to PSE or its facilities. Compliance with these or other future regulations could require significant expenditures by PSE and adversely affect PSE’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, PSE may not be able to recover all of its costs for such expenditures through electric and natural gas rates at current levels in the future.Under current law, PSE is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that it currently owns or operates or has previously owned or operated. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or new regulations governing such liability could result in substantial future costs and have a material adverse effect on PSE’s results of operations and financial condition.Specific to climate change, Washington State has adopted both renewable portfolio standards and GHG legislation, including an emission performance standard provision and the EPA set CO2 emission standards with specific state goals. Recent decisions related to climate change by the United States Supreme Court and the EPA, together with efforts by Congress, have drawn greater attention to this issue at the federal, state and local level. PSE's operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be impacted by various impacts of climate change.PSE's business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on its revenue, expenses and operating results. Demand for electricity is greater in the winter months associated with heating. Accordingly, PSE's operations have historically generated less revenue and income when weather conditions are milder in winter. In the event that the Company experiences unusually mild winters, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. PSE's hydroelectric resources are also dependent on snow conditions in the Pacific Northwest.PSE may be adversely affected by extreme events in which PSE is not able to promptly respond, repair and restart the electric and gas infrastructure system.PSE must maintain an emergency planning and training program to allow PSE to quickly respond to extreme events. Without emergency planning, PSE is subject to availability of outside contractors during an extreme event which may impact the quality of service provided to PSE’s customers and also require significant expenditures by PSE. In addition, a slow or ineffective response to extreme events may have an adverse effect on earnings as customers may be without electricity and natural gas for an extended period of time.PSE depends on an aging work force and third party vendors to perform certain important services and may be negatively affected by its inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees or the unavailability of vendors.PSE is subject to workforce factors, including but not limited to an aging workforce, loss or retirement of key personnel and availability of qualified personnel. PSE’s ability to implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon PSE’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers. Without a skilled workforce, PSE’s ability to provide quality service to PSE’s customers and to meet regulatory requirements could affect PSE’s earnings. Also, the costs associated with attracting and retaining qualified employees could reduce earnings and cash flows.PSE continues to be concerned about the availability and aging of skilled workers for special complex utility functions. PSE also hires third party vendors to perform a variety of normal business functions, such as power plant maintenance, data warehousing and management, electric transmission, electric and gas distribution construction and maintenance, certain billing and metering processes, call center overflow and credit and collections. The unavailability of skilled workers or unavailability of such vendors could adversely affect the quality and cost of PSE’s gas and electric service and accordingly PSE’s results of operations.30Potential municipalization may adversely affect PSE's financial condition. PSE may be adversely affected if we experience a loss in the number of our customers due to municipalization or other related government action. When a town or city in our service territory establishes its own municipal-owned utility, it acquires our assets and takes over the delivery of energy services that we provide. Although PSE is compensated in connection with the town or city's acquisition of its assets, any such loss of customers and related revenue could negatively affect PSE's future financial condition. Technological developments may have an adverse impact on PSE's financial condition. Advances in power generation, energy efficiency and other alternative energy technologies, such as solar generation, could lead to more wide-spread use of these technologies, thereby reducing customer demand for the energy supplied by PSE which could negatively impact PSE's revenue and financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY AND PSE FINANCEThe Company's business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital.The Company relies on access to internally generated funds, bank borrowings through multi-year committed credit facilities and short-term money markets as sources of liquidity and longer-term debt markets to fund PSE's utility construction program and other capital expenditure requirements of PSE. If Puget Energy or PSE are unable to access capital on reasonable terms, their ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions, including generating capacity, which may be necessary for future growth, could be adversely affected. Capital and credit market disruptions, a downgrade of Puget Energy's or PSE's credit rating or the imposition of restrictions on borrowings under their credit facilities in the event of a deterioration of financial ratios, may increase Puget Energy's and PSE’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets.The amount of the Company's debt could adversely affect its liquidity and results of operations.Puget Energy and PSE have short-term and long-term debt, and may incur additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. Puget Energy has access to a multi-year $800.0 million revolving credit facility, secured by substantially all of its assets, which has a maturity date of April 15, 2018. No amount was outstanding under the facility as of December 31, 2015. Puget Energy's credit facility includes an accordion feature that could, upon the banks' approval, increase the size of the facility to $1.3 billion. PSE also has two credit facilities, which provide PSE with access to $1.0 billion in short-term borrowing capability, and include an accordion feature that could, upon the banks' approval, increase the size of the facilities to $1.450 billion. The two PSE credit facilities mature on April 15, 2019. As of December 31, 2015, no amounts were drawn and outstanding under the PSE credit facilities. In addition, Puget Energy has issued $1.8 billion in senior secured notes, whereas PSE, as of December 31, 2015 had approximately $3.8 billion outstanding under first mortgage bonds, pollution control bonds, senior notes and junior subordinated notes. The Company's debt level could have important effects on the business, including but not limited to:•Making it difficult to satisfy obligations under the debt agreements and increasing the risk of default on the debt obligations;•Making it difficult to fund non-debt service related operations of the business; and•Limiting the Company's financial flexibility, including its ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all.A downgrade in Puget Energy’s or PSE’s credit rating could negatively affect the ability to access capital, the ability to hedge in wholesale markets and the ability to pay dividends.Although neither Puget Energy nor PSE has any rating downgrade provisions in its credit facilities that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect the ability to renew existing or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities. For example, under Puget Energy’s and PSE’s facilities, the borrowing spreads over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and commitment fees increase if their respective corporate credit ratings decline. A downgrade in commercial paper ratings could increase the cost of commercial paper and limit or preclude PSE’s ability to issue commercial paper under its current programs.Any downgrade below investment grade of PSE’s corporate credit rating could cause counterparties in the wholesale electric, wholesale natural gas and financial derivative markets to request PSE to post a letter of credit or other collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other mutually agreeable security, all of which would expose PSE to additional costs.PSE may not declare or make any dividend distribution unless on the date of distribution PSE’s corporate credit/issuer rating is investment grade, or if its credit ratings are below investment grade, PSE’s ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 31and amortization (EBITDA) to interest expense for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter periods prior to such date is equal to or greater than 3 to one. The Company may be negatively affected by unfavorable changes in the tax laws or their interpretation.The Company’s tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these taxes. Changes in tax law, related regulations or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the IRS or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The tax law, related regulations and case law are inherently complex. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. Poor performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs could unfavorably impact PSE’s cash flow and liquidity.PSE provides a defined benefit pension plan to PSE employees and postretirement benefits to certain PSE employees and former employees. Costs of providing these benefits are based, in part, on the value of the plan’s assets and the current interest rate environment and therefore, adverse market performance or low interest rates could result in lower rates of return for the investments that fund PSE’s pension and postretirement benefits plans and could increase PSE’s funding requirements related to the pension plans. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase PSE's funding requirements related to the pension plans. Any contributions to PSE’s plans in 2016 and beyond as well as the timing of the recovery of such contributions in GRCs could impact PSE’s cash flow and liquidity.Potential legal proceedings and claims could increase the Company’s costs, reduce the Company’s revenue and cash flow, or otherwise alter the way the Company conducts business.The Company is, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. While management believes the Company has reasonable and prudent insurance coverage and accrues loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Company cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company and/or its results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY’S CORPORATE STRUCTUREAs a holding company, Puget Energy depends on PSE’s ability to pay dividends. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, the primary source of funds for the repayment of debt and other expenses, as well as payment of dividends to its shareholder, is cash dividends PSE pays to Puget Energy. PSE is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to pay any amounts to Puget Energy, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of PSE to pay dividends or make distributions to Puget Energy, and accordingly, Puget Energy’s ability to pay dividends or repay debt or other expenses, will depend on PSE’s earnings, capital requirements and general financial condition. If Puget Energy does not receive adequate distributions from PSE, it may not be able to meet its obligations or pay dividends.The payment of dividends by PSE to Puget Energy is restricted by provisions of certain covenants applicable to long-term debt contained in PSE’s electric and natural gas mortgage indentures. In addition, beginning February 6, 2009, pursuant to the terms of the Washington Commission merger order, PSE may not declare or pay dividends if PSE’s common equity ratio calculated on a regulatory basis is 44.0% or below, except to the extent a lower equity ratio is ordered by the Washington Commission. Also, pursuant to the merger order, PSE's ability to declare or make any distribution is limited by its' corporate credit/issuer rating and EBITDA to interest ratio, as previously discussed above. The common equity ratio, calculated on a regulatory basis, was 47.7% at December 31, 2015 and the EBITDA to interest expense was 4.9 to 1.0 for the 12 months then ended.PSE’s ability to pay dividends is also limited by the terms of its credit facilities, pursuant to which PSE is not permitted to pay dividends during any Event of Default (as defined in the facilities), or if the payment of dividends would result in an Event of Default, such as failure to comply with certain financial covenants.32ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.