ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, as well as other factors of which we may be unaware or do not currently view as significant, could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Political and economic conditions are likely to materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business has been and may continue to be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, and changes in the overall demand for enterprise software and services. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the levels of business activity of our customers. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could cause businesses to postpone spending in 5 Table of Contents response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for enterprise software and services. Reduced demand for enterprise software could result in a reduction in our future license revenue and a reduction in the rate at which our customers renew their maintenance agreements and procure consulting services. The current economic crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity, currency and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments and negative economic trends on our business, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions; decreased customer demand; and decreased customer ability to pay their trade obligations. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, such conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our future revenue is unpredictable, and we expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the evolving nature of the markets in which we compete and the size of our customer agreements, we have difficulty accurately forecasting our revenue in any given period. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations, or those of stock market analysts and investors, or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • the relatively long sales cycles for many of our products; • the timing of our new products or product enhancements or any delays in such introductions; • the delay or deferral of customer implementations of our products; • changes in customer budgets and decision making processes that could affect both the timing and size of any transaction; • reduced spending in the industries that license our products; • our dependence on large deals, which, if such deals do not close, can greatly impact revenues for a particular quarter; • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • the deferral of license revenue to future periods due to the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products; • the impact of our provision of services and customer-required contractual terms on our recognition of license revenue; • any unanticipated difficulty we encounter in integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies; • the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter or our fiscal year in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our operations and the evaluation of strategic transactions; and • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and tax accounting, including accounting for uncertain tax positions. 6 Table of Contents Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Moreover, our operating results in some quarters have not in the past met, and may not in the future meet, the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In addition, while we may in future years record positive net income and/or increases in net income over prior periods, we may not show period-over-period earnings per share growth or earnings per share growth that meets the expectations of stock market analysts and investors as a result of the number of our shares outstanding during such periods. In such case, our stock price may decline. Uneven growth and periods of contraction in the infrastructure software market have caused our revenue to decline in the past and could cause our revenue or results of operations to fall below expectations in the future. We earn a substantial portion of our revenue from licenses of our infrastructure software, including application integration software and sales of related services. We expect to earn substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future from sales of these products and services. Our future financial performance will depend on continued growth in the number of organizations demanding software and services for application integration and information delivery and companies seeking outside vendors to develop, manage and maintain this software for their critical applications. Lower spending by corporate and governmental customers around the world, which has had a disproportionate impact on information technology spending, has led to a reduction in sales in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Many of our potential customers have made significant investments in internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to third-party products, which may substantially inhibit the growth of the market for infrastructure software. If the market fails to grow, or grows more slowly than we expect, our sales will be adversely affected. Also, even if corporate and governmental spending increases and companies make greater investments in information technology and infrastructure software, our revenue may not grow at the same pace. If we fail to manage our exposure to financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, our marketable investments are primarily investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to further write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of the United States financial sector. With the current unstable credit environment, we may incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. A significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are transacted in U.S. dollars. In addition, we also conduct our business in approximately 20 foreign currencies in EMEA and APJ. As a response to the risks of changes in value of foreign currency denominated transactions, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments, the majority of which mature within approximately one month. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. In addition, our 7 Table of Contents hedging program may not reduce the impact of short-term or long-term volatility in foreign exchange rates. Accordingly, amounts denominated in such foreign currencies may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. Any losses we incur as a result of our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and partners could harm our results of operations. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. As we have grown our revenue and customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. Any material losses to date as a result of customer defaults, could harm and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price may be volatile, which could cause investors to incur significant losses. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. In addition, uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. During this fiscal year, our stock price has fluctuated between a high of $8.78 and a low of $3.45. If market or industry-based fluctuations continue, our stock price could decline in the future regardless of our actual operating performance and investors could incur significant losses. We may incur impairments to goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets. We review our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the lack of recovery in the market price of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business could indicate that goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets might be impaired. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our market capitalization is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results. Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill, we would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Our success depends on our ability to overcome significant competition and to offer products and enhancements that respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ needs. The market for our products and services is extremely competitive and subject to rapid change. We compete with a variety of large and small providers of infrastructure software, SOA, business optimization and BPM, including companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Pegasystems, SAP and Software AG. We believe that of these companies, IBM has the potential to offer the most complete competitive set of products relative to our offerings. In addition, companies such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and SAP offer products outside our segment and routinely bundle their broader set of products with their infrastructure software products. Further, some of our competitors are expanding their competitive product offerings and market position through acquisitions and internal research and development. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging 8 Table of Contents companies. We also face competition for certain aspects of our product and service offerings from major systems integrators. Further, we may face increasing competition from open source software providers such as MuleSource that provide software and intellectual property, typically without charging license fees, or from other competitors offering products through alternative business models, such as software as a service. If customers choose such alternatives over our proprietary software, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition, and larger customer bases than we do. Continued consolidation in the software market may further strengthen our larger competitors. Our present or future competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets or competition may intensify and harm our business and operating results. If we are not successful in developing enhancements to existing products and new products in a timely manner, achieving customer acceptance for our existing and new product offerings or generating higher average selling prices, our gross margins may decline, and our business and operating results may suffer. Furthermore, any of our new product offerings or significant enhancements to current product offerings could cause some customers to delay making new or additional purchases while they fully evaluate any new offerings we might have introduced to the market, which in turn may slow sales and adversely affect operating results for an indeterminate period of time. Also, we may not execute successfully on our product plans because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales and earnings. Our strategy contemplates future acquisitions that may result in us incurring unanticipated expenses or additional debt, difficulty in integrating our operations and dilution to our stockholders and may harm our operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We expect to acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future as part of our corporate strategy. In this regard, we have made strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of Insightful Corporation in fiscal 2008 and Spotfire Holdings, Inc. in fiscal 2007. We do not know if we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate it profitably or retain its key employees. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or technology could be expensive and time-consuming, could disrupt our ongoing business and financial performance and could distract our management. Therefore, we may not be able, either immediately post-acquisition or ever, to replicate the pre-acquisition revenues achieved by companies that we acquire or achieve the benefits of the acquisition we anticipated in valuing the businesses, products or technologies we acquire. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired companies in international transactions can be particularly high, due to local laws and regulations. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entity, products or technology effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results would suffer. In addition, any amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation or other charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our operating results. In addition, we may face competition for acquisition targets from larger and more established companies with greater financial resources. Also, in order to finance any acquisition, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or use our cash reserves. In that event, we could be forced to obtain equity or debt financing on terms that are not favorable to us or that result in dilution to our stockholders. Use of our cash reserves for acquisitions could limit our financial flexibility in the future. The terms of existing loan agreements 9 Table of Contents may place limits on our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. If we are not able to acquire strategically attractive businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to remain competitive in our industry or achieve our overall growth plans. Increases in service revenues may decrease overall margins. We may in the future realize a higher percentage of our revenue from services, which has a lower profit margin than license or maintenance revenue. As a result, if services revenue increase as a percentage of total revenue, our overall profit margin may decrease, which could impact our stock price. Because the value of our equity incentive programs has diminished as a retention and recruiting tool, we may need to change our compensation packages in order to remain competitive which in turn could negatively affect our profit margins. We have historically used equity incentive programs, such as employee stock options and stock purchase plans, as a part of overall employee compensation arrangements. We have changed our stock purchase plan, reduced the size and number of stock option grants we give to our employees, changed the form of equity compensation we give to some of our employees and may make further changes to our equity compensation programs, all of which may decrease the effectiveness of our plans as employee retention and recruiting tools. In addition, the decline in our stock price has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the value of such equity incentives, thereby diminishing the value of such incentive programs to employees and decreasing the effectiveness of such programs as retention and recruiting tools. Given this, we may need to change our compensation packages to employees to remain competitive which could negatively affect our profit margins. If we cannot successfully recruit, retain and integrate highly skilled employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. If we fail to retain and recruit key management, sales and other skilled employees, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. As we grow, we must invest significantly in building our sales, marketing and engineering groups. Competition for these people in the software industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. We are competing against companies with greater financial resources and name recognition for these employees, and as such, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet our hiring needs or hire the most qualified candidates. The success of our business is also heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel, including Vivek Ranadivé, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued operations. In addition, we must successfully integrate new employees into our operations and generate sufficient revenues to justify the costs associated with these employees. If we fail to successfully integrate employees or to generate the revenue necessary to offset employee-related expenses, we may be forced to reduce our headcount, which would force us to incur significant expenses and would harm our business and operating results. The inability to upsell to our current customers or the loss of any significant customer could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We do not have long-term sales contracts with any of our customers. Our customers may choose not to purchase our products or not to use our services in the future. As a result, a customer that generates substantial revenue for us in one period may not be a source of revenue in subsequent periods. Any inability on our part to upsell to and generate revenues from our existing customers or the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, our use of open source software components in our products may make us vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, in particular because many of the open source software components we may incorporate with our products may be developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. “Open source software” is software that is covered by a license agreement which permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software, typically free of charge. Further, because patent applications in the United States and many other countries are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, applications covering technology used in our software products may have been filed without our knowledge. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. Our software license agreements typically provide for indemnification of our customers for intellectual property infringement claims. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and seriously harm our business. If we were to discover that our products violated the intellectual property rights of others, we would have to obtain licenses from these parties in order to continue marketing our products without substantial reengineering. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, and if we could not obtain such licenses, we might not be able to reengineer our products successfully or in a timely fashion. If we fail to address any infringement issues successfully, we would be forced to incur significant costs, including damages and potentially satisfying indemnification obligations that we have with our customers, and we could be prevented from selling certain of our products. Our intellectual property or proprietary rights could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success. Accordingly, we rely upon a combination of copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secret rights, patents, confidentiality agreements and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property. Despite these protections, a third party could misappropriate our intellectual property. Any misappropriation of our proprietary information by third parties could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary information as do the laws of the United States. If our proprietary information or material were misappropriated, we might have to engage in litigation to protect it. We might not succeed in protecting our proprietary information if we initiate intellectual property litigation, and, in any event, such litigation would be expensive and time-consuming, could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and could seriously harm our business. The use of open source software in our products may expose us to additional risks. Certain open source software is licensed pursuant to license agreements that require a user who distributes the open source software as a component of the user’s software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. This effectively renders what was previously proprietary software open source software. As competition in our markets increases, we must strive to be cost-effective in our product development activities. Many features we may wish to add to our products in the future may be available as open source software and our development team may wish to make use of this software to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. While we carefully monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party has incorporated certain types of open source software into its software but has failed to disclose the presence of such open source software and we embed that third party software into one or more of our products, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our product. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents Market acceptance of new platforms, standards and technologies may require us to undergo the expense of developing and maintaining compatible product lines. Our software products can be licensed for use with a variety of platforms, standards and technologies, and we are constantly evaluating the feasibility of adding new platforms, standards and technologies. There may be future or existing platforms, standards and technologies that achieve popularity in the marketplace which may not be architecturally compatible with our software products. In addition, the effort and expense of developing, testing and maintaining software products will increase as more platforms, standards and technologies achieve market acceptance within our target markets. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our software products or adapt to new platforms, standards and technologies, our sales and revenues will be adversely affected. Developing and maintaining different software products could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could harm our revenue and financial condition. If we are not able to develop software for accepted platforms, standards and technologies, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if the platforms, standards and technologies we have developed software for are not accepted, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. We operate internationally and face risks attendant to those operations. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations. As a result of these sales operations, we face risks arising from local political, legal and economic factors such as the general economic conditions in each country or region, varying regulatory requirements and compliance with international and local trade, labor and other laws. We may also face difficulties in managing our international operations, collecting receivables in a timely fashion and repatriating earnings. Any of these factors, either individually or in combination, could materially impact our international operations and adversely affect our business as a whole. Our software may have defects and errors that could lead to a loss of revenues or product liability claims. Our products and platforms use complex technologies and, despite extensive testing and quality control procedures, may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. If defects or errors are discovered after commercial release of either new versions or enhancements of our products and platforms: • potential customers may delay purchases; • customers may react negatively, which could reduce future sales; 12 Table of Contents • our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; • we may have to defend product liability claims; • we may be required to indemnify our customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers or other resellers; • we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and • we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects and errors, which may result in the delay of new product releases or upgrades. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues, incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. Any unauthorized, and potentially improper, actions of our personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recognition of our revenue depends on, among other things, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We have implemented policies to prevent and discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel have negotiated terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or verbal, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate revenue for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The outcome of litigation pending against us could require us to expend significant resources and could harm our business and financial resources. Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the litigation pending against us and our directors and officers. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. The defense of the lawsuits could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Negative developments with respect to the lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment could seriously harm our financial condition and liquidity. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in California, a seismically active region. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in a few geographic areas. A natural disaster in one of these regions could have a material adverse impact on our U.S. and foreign operations, operating results and financial condition. Further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Any failure by us to meet the requirements of current or newly-targeted customers may have a detrimental impact on our business or operating results. We may wish to expand our customer base into markets in which we have limited experience. In some cases, customers in different markets, such as financial services or government, have specific regulatory or other requirements which we must meet. For example, in order to maintain contracts with the United States 13 Table of Contents government, we must comply with specific rules and regulations relating to and that govern such contracts. Government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. If we fail to meet such requirements in the future, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability or a reduction of revenue which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Reuters has a royalty free license to our products. We license from Reuters the intellectual property that was incorporated into early versions of some of our software products. We do not own this licensed technology. Because Reuters has access to intellectual property used in our products, it could use this intellectual property to compete with us. Reuters is not restricted from using the licensed technology it has licensed to us to produce products that compete with our products, and it can grant limited licenses to the licensed technology to others who may compete with us. In addition, we must license to Reuters all of the products we own and the source code for one of our messaging products, through December 2012. This may place Reuters in a position to more easily develop products that compete with ours. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as a stockholder rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. We have a stockholder rights plan providing for one right for each outstanding share of our common stock. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase certain securities at a specified purchase price. The rights plan may have the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire TIBCO on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the rights plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, provisions of our current certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 