Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this report, including under Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the factors described below should be considered carefully in making any investment decisions with respect to our securities. These factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity and cause investors in our securities to lose part or all of their investments. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity and Indebtedness We incurred a net loss from operations in the year ended January 3, 2010 and have a stockholders’ deficit as of January 3, 2010. In addition, the increasingly competitive industry conditions under which we operate has negatively impacted our results of operations and cash flows and may continue to in the future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans with respect to addressing these matters are discussed in greater detail under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditional and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Our future viability is dependent on our ability to execute these plans successfully. If we fail to do so for any reason, we would not have adequate liquidity to fund our operations, would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The senior secured notes require significant amortization and other debt service payments. We may not be able to make such payments as they become due, which would result in an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. Were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. Our ability to make the required amortization and other debt service payments under the senior secured notes depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities. We cannot assure you that our future cash flow will be sufficient to service our indebtedness and to meet the other obligations of our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service commitments through, or are unable to refinance or restructure our indebtedness prior to, maturity, we would be in default of the indenture governing the senior secured notes and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, which could require us to pursue a restructuring of our indebtedness or file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If our operating results decline we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our liquidity needs. We rely upon cash on hand and cash from operations to fund our cash requirements for working capital, including rental library purchases, capital expenditures, commitments and payments of principal and interest on borrowings. Our ability to generate cash from operations has been negatively impacted by competitive industry 21 Table of Contents conditions, rapidly changing consumer preferences for acquisition of video and game entertainment, and the current state of the global economy. We expect that these factors will continue to have a negative impact on our business for the foreseeable future. Our current fiscal 2010 plan contemplates a domestic same-store sales decline in the range of mid-single digits to high single digits. Further deterioration would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We recently completed a number of external liquidity generating events, including the divestiture of some of our international operations. Our ability to complete additional divestitures is subject to a number of conditions, many of which are outside of our control. For example, each transaction is dependant on the execution of a definitive agreement with a willing buyer on terms mutually acceptable to both parties and the subsequent satisfaction of each of the conditions to such divestitures. Although we are in active discussions with a number of parties with respect to such transactions, we have not executed any definitive agreements at this time. As a result, we can provide you with no assurances that we will complete any such transactions or, if we do complete any such transaction, what the terms and conditions of such transaction will be. Under certain circumstances, we will be required to use the net proceeds of these divestitures to make an offer to repurchase the senior secured notes. We are in the process of developing and initiating certain operational and business strategies to attempt to maximize our cash and cash equivalents over the near term. One initiative we are pursuing involves an exchange of all or part of our senior subordinated notes for Class A common stock. We also may seek certain modifications to the senior secured notes from the holders thereof. Consistent with this approach, the holders of the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes have been contacted and have formed respective note holder committees, have retained advisors and are conducting due diligence. Assuming that we can reach agreement with such holders on the terms of an exchange, we will seek to implement an exchange during the latter part of the second quarter or early part of the third quarter of this year, depending on the timing of SEC clearance of the exchange documentation and when we receive, if necessary, shareholder approval. In connection with pursuing an exchange, we will also be involved in discussions with holders of our Series A convertible preferred stock regarding the possible conversion of such Series A convertible preferred stock into our Class A common stock. We can give no assurance that we can successfully execute an exchange and preferred stock conversion strategy or any of the other strategies we are pursuing and our ability to do so could be significantly impacted by numerous factors including changes in the economic or business environment, financial market volatility, the performance of our business, and the terms and conditions of our various debt agreements and indentures as well as the certificate of designations governing our Series A convertible preferred stock. It is possible that a successful and efficient implementation of an exchange or any of the other strategies we are pursuing will require us to make a pre-packaged, pre-arranged or other type of filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If we cannot meet our capital needs using cash on hand and cash from operations, in addition to the actions set forth above, we may have to take actions such as modifying our business plan to close additional stores, pursuing additional external liquidity generating events, seeking additional financing to the extent available, further reducing or delaying capital expenditures, further restructuring our existing indebtedness or filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due and more necessary for us to divert our cash flow from operations to debt service payments. Our aggregate principal indebtedness under the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes was $975.0 million as of January 3, 2010. Our debt service obligations could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences for our business. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due during general adverse economic and market or industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; 22 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to invest in certain strategic initiatives, and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors; • require a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital requirements including inventory, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and • cause our trade creditors to change their terms for payment on goods and services provided to us, thereby negatively impacting our ability to receive products and services on acceptable terms. Additionally, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks above could intensify. Additional debt would further increase the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, and would further reduce our funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general purposes. Additional debt may also decrease our ability to refinance or restructure our indebtedness, and further limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. If we or our subsidiaries add new debt to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We engaged Rothschild Inc. in February 2009 to assist us with evaluating capital structure alternatives, including recapitalization opportunities that may include a restructuring of our outstanding debt or equity securities. With respect to our restructuring options, as noted above, we are pursuing an exchange of all or part of our senior subordinated notes for Class A common stock and in connection therewith will be involved in discussions with holders of our Series A convertible preferred stock regarding the possible conversion of such Series A convertible preferred stock into Class A common stock. We may also seek certain modifications to the senior secured notes from the holders thereof. However, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets, the terms of our existing debt agreements and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more restrictive covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indenture governing the senior secured notes and the certificate of designations governing our Series A convertible preferred stock, may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes. 23 Table of Contents In addition, if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, our debt holders would have the right following a cure period to cause the entire principal amount of our debt, including the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes, to become immediately due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under these instruments are accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to our debt holders. If we are unable to repay our debt upon acceleration we may be forced to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the indenture governing the senior secured notes may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. The indentures governing the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. The indentures governing the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; • make investments and acquire assets; and • make certain payments on indebtedness. The restrictions contained in the indentures governing the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes could adversely affect our ability to: • finance our operations; • make needed capital expenditures; • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; • withstand a continued and sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general; • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because a very large majority of our assets have been secured as collateral for the benefit of the holders of the senior secured notes. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness, our credit ratings and the declining in-store rental industry in which we operate could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. Further, uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations could result in unfavorable terms from our trade creditors. In addition, there are other situations where our debt may be accelerated and we may be unable to repay such debt. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations or force us to seek further restructuring of our indebtedness or file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 24 Table of Contents Past and potential further downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. The major debt-rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt and rate our debt according to a number of factors, among which are, our perceived financial strength and transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On January 21, 2010, Standard & Poor’s changed our outlook to poor from stable due to deteriorating market conditions. On February 17, 2010, Standard & Poor’s downgraded our corporate credit rating to CCC from B-, with a negative outlook, and lowered our Notes to CCC from a B rating. On March 2, 2010, Moody’s downgraded both our probability of default rating and our corporate family rating to Caa3 from Caa1, with a negative outlook. Further downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future upon acceptable terms and conditions. The tightening or elimination of credit terms by studios could result in increased up-front cash commitments that we may be unable to sustain on a long-term basis and adversely impact optimal product in-stock and availability levels. Given our liquidity limitations and uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations, we are currently in discussions with several of the large studios regarding the credit terms for our inventory purchases. If the studios tighten their credit terms or if studios eliminate their provision of credit to us altogether, this could result in up-front cash commitments that we may be unable to sustain on a long-term basis given our debt service and other business obligations. In such event, our ability to maintain optimal product in-stock and availability levels would be adversely affected and our financial results would suffer. Because we no longer have the ability to borrow under a revolving credit facility, an inability to meet our obligations with respect to our inventory purchases may result in our need to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are currently in discussions with several major studios to maintain or improve our existing credit terms by pledging our unencumbered Canadian assets as collateral for our domestic studio payables. As an alternative, we may borrow against our unencumbered Canadian assets. However, there can be no assurance that we can execute either alternative. If we are unable to successfully implement our operational and business strategies, if we are unable to reach agreements with our debt holders to restructure a sufficient portion of our debt, or if the major studios tighten or eliminate credit terms, we may voluntarily seek relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We are currently experiencing significant liquidity constraints and have sizable amortization and other debt service requirements. Should we not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and should the studios tighten or eliminate credit terms, we may determine that it is in the Company’s best interests to voluntarily seek relief through a pre-packaged, pre-arranged or other type of filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including prior to the time we would otherwise be required to do so in an acceleration event. Seeking relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if such relief does not lead to a quick emergence from Chapter 11, could materially adversely affect the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, suppliers, partners and others. Further, if we were unable to implement a plan of reorganization or if sufficient debtor-in-possession financing were not available, we could be forced to liquidate under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Revenues generated from our in-store home video and game rentals and sales are projected to continue to decline. Such decline has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, particularly when considering sustained decreases in consumer spending attributable to the unprecedented decline in overall economic conditions, the reversal of which cannot be accurately determined. In fiscal 2009, revenues generated by our domestic segment decreased by 20.4% and our domestic same-store revenues decreased by 15.6%. We believe that such declines were caused primarily by (i) increased competition from retail mass merchant sales of low-priced DVDs, by-mail rentals, kiosk and vending rental and sales and other sources of in-home entertainment such as digital video recorders and other devices that are capable of downloading content for in-home viewing; (ii) competition from other forms of leisure entertainment; and (iii) the sustained decreases in consumer spending attributable to the unprecedented decline in overall economic conditions. Further declines in our in-store home video rentals and sales will negatively impact our business and our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. We cannot predict the impact that the following may have on our business: (i) new or improved technologies or video formats, (ii) alternative methods of content delivery, or (iii) changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies or formats and alternative methods of content delivery. We also compete generally for the consumer’s entertainment dollar and leisure time. Advances in technologies such as video-on-demand, digital downloading, new video formats, or alternative methods of content delivery or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted if: • newly released movies were to be made widely available by the studios to these technologies or these formats at the same time or before they are made available to home video retailers for rental; and • these technologies or new formats were to be widely accepted by consumers. Although we are pursuing, and may pursue in the future, initiatives related to alternative methods of content availability and delivery and believe that certain of these initiatives may be successfully integrated into our business model, we have limited experience with certain of these initiatives and cannot assure that they will be successful or profitable. Many satellite providers, digital cable providers and Internet content providers have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, video-on-demand and digital downloading services for movies. These services can transmit a consumer’s movie selection nearly instantaneously and with interactive capabilities, such as start, stop, fast-forward and rewind, to the consumer’s television, computer or portable electronic device, thereby offering consumers the convenience of watching a movie with DVD-like control but without trips to the video store for rentals and returns. Although we are providing our own digital delivery services through BLOCKBUSTER On Demand, consumers may adopt our competitors’ video-on-demand and digital downloading services because of convenience, availability or cost. The availability of content through video-on-demand, digital downloading and other technologies may reduce the demand for our products or otherwise negatively affect our business. Any method for delivery of entertainment content that serves as an alternative to obtaining product or services from our stores or our by-mail DVD rental service can impact our business. Examples of delivery methods that have impacted, or could impact, our business include: • personal video recorders, • video-on-demand, 26 Table of Contents • download-to-burn DVDs, • video vending machines and download-to-burn kiosks, and • video downloads to portable devices and personal computers. Our video store business could be negatively affected if these alternative delivery methods were to become more widely available and accepted. This is because a smaller number of movies may be rented or sold if viewers were to favor the alternative delivery methods and expanded content, including movies, specialty programming and sporting events, offered through these services. Additionally, increases in the size of video-on-demand or digital downloading usage by consumers could lead to an earlier distribution window for movies on video-on-demand or by digital download if the studios were to perceive this to be a better way to maximize their revenues. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition, are accretive to earnings and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. We also compete generally for the consumer’s entertainment dollar and leisure time with, among others, (i) movie theaters; (ii) Internet browsing, online gaming and other Internet-related activities; (iii) consumers’ existing personal movie libraries; (iv) live theater; (v) sporting events; and (vi) music entertainment. Our results can therefore fluctuate depending on the desirability of other forms of entertainment. There can be no assurance that we will fully develop an ability to respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of content delivery, to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings and marketing and merchandising initiatives, or to selectively develop and maintain strategic alliances for products and services that meet and anticipate advances in technology and market trends. We have implemented and expect to continue to implement initiatives that are designed to enhance efficiency, customer convenience and our product offerings. In doing so, we are competing in markets for products and services that are highly competitive and subject to evolving industry standards and rapid adoption of technical innovation and product enhancements by competitors. The implementation of new initiatives has involved, and will continue to involve, significant investments by us of time and money and could be adversely impacted by (i) our inability to timely implement and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure to support shifts in consumer preferences and any corresponding changes to our operating model, including continued support for our initiatives, and (ii) the extent and timing of our continued investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures to continue to develop and implement our initiatives and our corresponding ability to effectively control overall operating expenses and capital expenditures. We are currently pursuing certain initiatives that are related to digital content distribution, kiosk vending and consumer electronic devices. In these areas we face substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital supplier relationships. We expect competition to intensify as competitors individually and collaboratively adopt new technologies to offer integrated solutions in these areas. We cannot assure you that our initiatives will be profitable or successful in attracting and retaining customers. Our ability to effectively and timely prioritize and implement our initiatives will also affect when and if they will have a positive impact on our profitability. If the average sales and rental prices for our product are not at or above expected prices, our expected gross margins may be adversely affected. To achieve our expected revenues and gross margins, we need to sell and rent, as applicable, our product, including previously rented, retail and rental (whether in-store, by-mail or digitally) product at or above expected 27 Table of Contents prices. If the average sales or rental prices of such product are not at or above these expected prices, our revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. It is also important that we maximize our gross margins through our allocation of store space. We may need to turn our inventory of previously rented and retail product more quickly in the future in order to make room in our stores for additional DVDs, new customer proposition initiatives or to downsize the store. Therefore, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to rent or sell, on average, our product at or above the expected price. Other factors that could affect our ability to rent or sell our product at expected prices include: • consumer desire to rent any of our movies and games; • consumer desire to own a particular movie or game; • the amount of product available for rental or sale by others to the public; and • changes in the price of product by the studios or changes by other retailers, particularly mass merchant retailers. We have recently entered into licensing and content distribution arrangements and are seeking other alliances for non-store distribution channels that represent a significant component of our business strategy. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of these alliances, our business may be adversely affected. We depend upon our licensees and other third parties for the management, production and operation of the products and services for which they license our brand name or make our video library available for rent or purchase. Any revenue or profits from these arrangements are substantially dependent on the willingness and ability of these licensees and other parties to devote their financial resources and manufacturing and marketing capabilities to commercialize products and services that use our brand and video library. For example, while NCR has announced that it expects to have over 10,000 kiosks under the BLOCKBUSTER Express brand name by mid-year 2010, NCR is under no obligation to install or continue to operate these kiosks and may elect to discontinue doing so at any time. If we have a disagreement with any of these licensees and other parties with respect to the operation of our strategic alliances and are unable to resolve these disagreements, or if these licensees or other parties are unwilling or unable to devote financial resources to commercialize products using our brand name and video library, we may not be able realize the anticipated benefits of these alliances and our business could be adversely affected. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our cost saving initiatives. In 2009, we undertook a number of cost saving initiatives to increase EBITDA while reducing our general and administrative expenses, which resulted in over $300 million in general and administrative cost savings. We closed under-performing stores during 2009 and plan to close additional under-performing stores either upon lease expiration or on an accelerated basis, which we expect will cumulatively produce an additional annualized EBITDA benefit. We expect to incur substantial lease termination charges in connection with these store closings. In addition, we have taken advantage of additional opportunities to reduce general and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2010. We have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated impact of our cost saving initiatives. These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. For example, the expected EBITDA benefit from closing stores on an accelerated basis gives effect to the elimination of historical losses from these stores and assumes that 25% of the revenues from the closed stores are shifted to our remaining open stores. It is possible that our remaining stores may not realize revenue increases as a result of store closures. In addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these initiatives are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Some of our cost saving measures may not have the impact on our profitability that we currently project. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these initiatives or if we do not achieve our expected results, it may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Our financial results are impacted by seasonality, including the adverse impact caused by improved weather conditions. There is a distinct seasonal pattern to the home video and video games business, with slower business in May, due in part to improved weather and Daylight Saving Time, and in September and October, due in part to the start of school and the introduction of new television programs. The month of December has historically been our highest revenue month. While we expect this month to continue to make the largest contribution to our rental revenues, we believe the strength of rental revenues in this month has been and will continue to be negatively affected, to some degree, by competitive pressures, changes in consumer preferences for accessing filmed entertainment, and consumers purchasing DVDs during the holiday season. Although our by-mail and in-store rental subscription offerings have helped us mitigate, to some extent, the impact of seasonality and weather conditions on our business by providing a more steady revenue stream across all months, seasonality and weather are expected to continue to impact our business and our period-to-period financial results in the future. Our revenues could be adversely affected due to the variability in consumer appeal of the movie titles and game software released for rental and sale, as well as the effect of game platform cycles. The quality of movie titles and game software released for rental and sale is not within our control, and our results of operations have from time to time reflected the variability in consumer appeal for such items. We cannot assure you that future releases of movie titles and game software will appeal to consumers and, as a result, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our financial results could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively or if we are unable to reach agreements with service, product and content providers on favorable commercial terms, including such matters as copy depth and uses of product. Our purchasing decisions are influenced by many factors, including, among others, gross margin considerations and supplier product return policies. While much of our retail movie product in the United States, but not outside the United States, is returnable to vendors, our investments in retail movie inventory may result in excess inventories in the event anticipated sales fail to materialize. In addition, returns of our games inventory, which is prone to obsolescence risks because of the nature of the industry, are subject to negotiation with vendors. Our purchasing decisions also involve predictions of consumer demand. While the historical growth of our in-store and by-mail subscription programs and the free in-store rentals provided by our BLOCKBUSTER Total Access program have increased consumer demand for our products, these programs have increased the complexity of our purchasing decisions. In addition, the prevalence of multiple game platforms adds to the difficulty of accurately predicting consumer demand with respect to video games. The nature of and market for our products, particularly games and DVDs, also makes them prone to risk of theft and loss. Our operating results could therefore suffer if we are not able to: • obtain or maintain favorable terms from our suppliers with respect to such matters as copy depth, use of product, including without limitation fulfillment of by-mail orders, and product returns; • maintain adequate copy depth to maintain customer satisfaction; • control shrinkage resulting from theft or loss; or • avoid significant inventory excesses that could force us to sell products at a discount or loss. Further, as discussed above, uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations has in the past caused some of our trade creditors to impose increasingly less favorable terms and future uncertainty could similarly result in unfavorable terms from our trade creditors. 29 Table of Contents Our business would lose a competitive advantage if the movie studios were to shorten or eliminate the home video retailer distribution window or otherwise adversely change their current practices with respect to the timing of the release of movies to the various distribution channels. A competitive advantage that home video retailers currently enjoy over most other movie distribution channels, except theatrical release, is the early timing of the home video retailers’ distribution window. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, the studios’ current practice is to generally make their movies available to home video retailers (for rental and retail, including by mass merchant retailers) for specified periods of time. This distribution window has traditionally been exclusive against most other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, video-on-demand, digital downloads, premium television, basic cable, and network and syndicated television. Thereafter, movies are made sequentially available to television distribution channels. The studios’ traditional practices with respect to the distribution windows could change at any time. Our business could be negatively affected if: • the home video retailer distribution windows were no longer the first following the theatrical release; • the length of the home video retailer distribution windows were shortened; or • the home video retailer distribution windows were no longer as exclusive as they are now. This is because newly released movies would be made available earlier on these other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, and consumers might no longer need to wait until after the home video retailer distribution window to view a newly released movie on one or more of these other distribution channels. In such event, we would need to address additional competition. According to industry statistics, more movies are now being released to pay-per-view, video-on-demand or digital downloads at the shorter end of the home video retailer distribution window range than at the longer end. In addition, many of the major movie studios have entered into various ventures to provide video-on-demand or similar services of their own. Increased studio participation in or support of these types of services could impact their decisions with respect to the timing and exclusivity of the home video retailer distribution window. We believe that the studios have a significant interest in maintaining a viable home video retail industry. For example, Warner Bros. entered into licensing agreements with Netflix and Redbox in January and February of 2010, respectively, whereby Netflix and Redbox agreed not to rent new release Warner Bros. DVDs until 28 days after such DVDs are first made available for retail sale. At present, however, none of the other studios has entered into, and there can be no assurance that in the future any other studio will enter into, similar arrangements with Netflix and/or Redbox. While arrangements such as this may benefit our business, recently, there has been increasing experimentation by studios and various movie content aggregators and retailers with the traditional distribution windows, including simultaneous video-on-demand and DVD releases. Because the order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel are determined solely by the studio releasing the movie, we cannot predict the impact of any future decisions by the studios. In addition, any consolidation or vertical integration of media companies to include both content providers and digital distributors could pose a risk to the continuation of the home video retailer distribution window. Changes in studio pricing policies have resulted in increased competition, in particular from mass merchant retailers, which has impacted consumer rental and purchasing behavior. We cannot control or predict future studio decisions or resulting consumer behavior, and future changes could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. The studios’ current practice is generally to sequentially release their movies to different distribution channels. After the initial theatrical release of a movie, studios generally make their movies available to home video retailers (for rental and retail, including by mass merchant retailers) for a specified period of time. This distribution channel is typically exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, including cable and satellite distribution, and is commonly referred to as the home video retailers’ “distribution window.” 30 Table of Contents Historically, at the beginning of a particular movie title’s distribution window, the movie would be priced to home video retailers based on the applicable studio’s decision to promote the movie to the consumer either primarily for rental, or for both rental and sale, at the beginning of the distribution window. In order to promote a movie title primarily for rental at the beginning of the distribution window, a studio would initially release the title to home video retailers at a price that was too high to enable them to sell the title to consumers at an affordable price. As rental demand subsided, the studio would reduce the pricing for the movie, which would then enable retailers to sell the title to consumers at an affordable price. The time during which the studios released the title at the higher pricing was commonly referred to as the “rental window.” Currently, substantially all DVD titles are initially released to home video retailers at a price that is low enough to allow them to offer movies at affordable prices to the consumer from the beginning of the home video retailers’ distribution window. This method of pricing is commonly referred to as “sell-through” pricing, and has improved our ability to purchase rental product at lower prices. However, the studios’ sell-through pricing policy has also led to increasing competition from other retailers, in particular mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Best Buy and Target. It has also led to increased competition from online retailers. These other retailers are able, due to the lower sell-through prices, to purchase DVDs for sale to consumers at the same time as traditional home video retailers, who, like us, purchase product for rental. In addition, some retailers lower their sales prices in order to increase overall traffic to their stores or businesses, and mass merchants may be more willing to sell at lower, or even below wholesale, prices to drive traffic and thereby increase sales of their other inventory items. All of these factors have increased consumer interest in purchasing DVDs, which has resulted in increased competition and reduced the significance of the historical rental window. We believe that the increased consumer purchases of movies have been due in part to consumer interest in building DVD libraries of classic movies and personal favorites and that the studios will remain dependent on traditional home video retailers to generate revenues for the studios from titles that are not classics or current box office hits. We therefore believe the importance of the video rental industry to the studios will continue to be a factor in studio pricing decisions. However, we cannot control or predict studio pricing policies with certainty, and we cannot assure you that consumers will not, as a result of further decreases in studio sell-through pricing and/or sustained or further depressed pricing by competitors, increasingly desire to purchase rather than rent movies. Personal DVD libraries could also cause consumers to rent or purchase fewer movies in the future. Our profitability could, therefore, be negatively affected further if, in light of any such consumer behavior, we were unable to (i) maintain or increase our rental business; (ii) replace gross profits from generally higher-margin rentals with gross profits from increased sales of generally lower-margin sell-through product; or (iii) otherwise positively affect gross profits, such as through price increases or cost reductions. Our ability to achieve one or more of these objectives is subject to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to compete effectively with other DVD retailers, some of whom may have competitive advantages such as the pricing flexibility described above or favorable consumer perceptions regarding value. Our profitability is also dependent on our ability to enter into arrangements with the studios that effectively balance cost considerations and the number of copies of a title stocked by us. As discussed previously, given our liquidity limitations and uncertainty surrounding our ability to finance our obligations, we are currently in discussions with several of the larger studios regarding the credit terms for our inventory purchases. Each type of arrangement provides different advantages and challenges for us. Our profitability could be negatively affected if studios were to make other changes in their pricing policies, which could include changes in revenue-sharing arrangements, pricing or rental windows for DVDs or expanded exploitation by studios of international two-tiered pricing laws, which allow studios to charge different prices for movies intended for rental to consumers, as opposed to sale. In addition, we cannot predict what use the studios might make of current or future alternative supply methods, such as downloading to stores or consumers, or what impact the use of such supply chain changes by us or our competitors might have on our profitability or cash flows from operations. 31 Table of Contents Industry consolidation in the in-store home video rental industry has occurred and may continue. If we are not successful in capitalizing on this industry consolidation, our financial results may be adversely affected. Based upon current industry projections, we believe that over-capacity exists in the video rental market and that, as a result, many video stores, including some of our own stores, will be forced to continue to close in the future. If we are unable to capitalize on the store closings of our competitors, we may be unable to grow our market share and our financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, we have historically closed underperforming video stores and will continue to consider the closure of underperforming stores. We closed 374 domestic company-owned stores in fiscal 2009. We are currently reviewing many of our store leases and evaluating certain sites to close or downsize based on store profitability. We expect to close approximately 500 to 545 domestic company-operated stores in 2010, of which 273 have already been closed in January and February 2010. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. We have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies and initiatives. Such opportunities may also involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset expenses associated with the strategy or initiative, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not initially contemplated or discovered. No assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. For certain of our customer proposition initiatives we may rely on third-party digital content, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition to offering our own digital content from time to time we may contract with third parties to offer their digital content through our stores or alternative aggregation and content delivery products and services. In those cases, we could pay substantial fees to obtain rights to offer such content. Our licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers may be short-term and may not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms. Some third-party content providers may also offer competing products and services, or offer similar content to our competitors, and could take action to make it more difficult for us to license their content in the future. If we are unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand our systems and platforms and customer offerings for these relatively new customer proposition initiatives, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Third-party content providers may require that we provide certain digital rights management and other security solutions. If these requirements change we may have to develop or license new technology to provide such solutions. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs are important to the continued implementation of our new customer proposition initiatives, as well as the operation of our business generally. To avoid technology obsolescence and enable future cost savings and customer enhancements, we are continually updating our information technology infrastructure. In addition, we intend to add new features and functionality to our products, services and systems that could result in the need to develop, license or integrate additional technologies. Our inability to add additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of our new 32 Table of Contents customer proposition initiatives, service interruptions, impaired quality or speed of the users’ experience and the diversion of development resources. Our failure to provide new features or functionality to our systems also could result in these consequences. We may not be able to effectively upgrade and expand our systems, or add new systems, in a timely and cost effective manner and we may not be able to smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to improve our business. In addition, any failure of our existing information technology infrastructure could result in significant additional costs to us. Certain of our information technology services and support functions are performed by third parties. Service interruptions, contract disputes or the effect of general market conditions on these service providers could adversely impact the availability and reliability of service and support. Our business model is substantially dependent on the functionality of our distribution centers. Our domestic distribution system for our store-based operations is centralized. We ship a substantial portion of the products to our U.S. company-operated stores through our distribution center. We also have 38 regional U.S. distribution centers to support our by-mail service. If our distribution centers became non-operational for any reason, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our movies and other products. In international markets, we utilize a variety of distribution methodologies with similar risks to those in the United States. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The significantly depressed price of our common stock may continue not only as a result of challenging market conditions but also any change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations, business model, business prospects or ability to pay our debt obligations as they become due. The price at which our common stock has traded in recent periods has fluctuated greatly, and most recently has declined significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our operating results; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans of others; • competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; • perceptions regarding the current and long-term viability of our business model and the success of ongoing and proposed strategic initiatives; • market volatility in general; and • the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we have become the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more of such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s continued listing criteria. Our Class A and Class B common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “Exchange”) and are thereby subject to certain continued listing criteria established by the Exchange in order to maintain listing on 33 Table of Contents the Exchange. Among such criteria is the requirement that common stock maintain a $1.00 minimum average closing price. If the average closing price of the Class A common stock is below $1.00 for any consecutive 30-trading-day period, the Class A and Class B stock could be delisted and moved to the Exchange’s ARCA electronic exchange. The price at which the Class A stock has traded in recent periods has fluctuated greatly, and most recently has declined significantly, trading at prices below $1.00. In November 2009, we were notified by the Exchange that our Class A common stock did not satisfy the Exchange’s continued listing standard that requires the average closing price of a listed security to be no less than $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-trading-day period. Under the Exchange’s rules, we have through the date of our 2010 annual meeting, which is expected to take place on May 26, 2010, within which to cure this deficiency. If we fail to cure this deficiency, the Exchange could begin the delisting process for our Class A and Class B common stock. With the sustained decrease in the trading price of our Class A common stock our market capitalization has been reduced such that, if our share price continues to decline or it does not experience a sustained increase, there is a possibility that we may not be able to remain in compliance with Exchange requirements for minimum average market capitalization for listed companies. If we are unable to maintain the Exchange listing for the Class A and Class B stock as a result of our failure to continue to comply with these requirements or any other minimum listing requirement, the Class A and Class B shares may be perceived as a less desirable investment, negatively affecting the market for the stock, which could decrease our ability to issue new stock and attract further equity investment. A delisting could also enhance the perception of the Company’s financial distress among our lenders, trade creditors, business partners, vendors, analysts and the media, which could cause some of our trade creditors to impose increasingly less favorable terms and make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing and develop strategic alliances. Other Business Risks Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we lose key senior management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our performance depends in part on the ability of our senior management team to coalesce, motivate our employees and address the changes presented by our dynamic industry and the challenging economic conditions. Additionally, we rely upon the continued service and availability of skilled personnel in technical, operations and staff positions. Our employment agreements with James W. Keyes, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and Thomas M. Casey, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, are set to expire on July 1, 2010 and September 11, 2010, respectively. The unexpected future loss of services of Mr. Keyes, Mr. Casey, or any other member of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business. We will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage management-level employees. We have relied on equity awards as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which could cause us to reduce the number of stock-based awards issued to employees and could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Additionally, significant adverse volatility in our stock price has resulted in the exercise price of our outstanding stock options exceeding the underlying stock’s market value, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. In addition, recent cost containment initiatives affecting our compensation practices that have been adopted in response to the current economic environment will also impact our ability to attract and maintain personnel to some extent, depending upon the length of time during which these initiatives remain in effect. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. 34 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental regulation particular to the retail home video industry and changes in U.S. or international laws may adversely affect us. Any finding that we have been, or are, in noncompliance with respect to, or otherwise liable under, the laws affecting our business could result in costs, including, among other things, governmental penalties or private litigant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to various international and U.S. federal and state laws that govern the offer and sale of our franchises because we act as a franchisor. In addition, because we operate video stores and develop new video stores, we are subject to various international and U.S. federal and state laws that govern, among other things, the disclosure and retention of our video rental records and access to and use of our video stores by disabled persons, and are subject to various international, U.S. federal, state and local advertising, consumer protection, credit protection, franchising, licensing, zoning, land use, construction, trading activities, second-hand dealer, minimum wage and labor and other employment regulations, as well as laws and regulations relating to the protection and cleanup of the environment and health and safety matters. The international home video and video game industry varies from country to country due to, among other things, legal standards and regulations, such as those relating to foreign ownership rights; unauthorized copying; intellectual property rights; movie ratings, which in many countries are legal standards unlike the voluntary standards of the United States; labor and employment matters; trade regulation and business practices; franchising and taxation; environmental matters; and format and technical standards. Our obligation to comply with, and the effects of, the above governmental regulations are increased by the magnitude of our operations. Changes in existing laws, adoption of new laws or increases in the minimum wage may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect us. For example, the repeal or limitation in the United States of certain favorable copyright laws would have an adverse impact in the United States on our rental business. Similarly, the adoption or expansion of laws in any other country to allow copyright owners to charge retailers more for rental product than for sell-through product could have an adverse impact on our rental business in that country. We are subject to business risks of international operations. We derive a material portion of our revenue through our international operations. For fiscal 2009, revenues from our international operations constituted 29.7% of our total revenues. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies. Margins on the sale and rental of our products in foreign countries could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations. We are subject to various litigation matters that could, if judgments were to be rendered against us, have an adverse effect on our operating results. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, we may from time to time enter into material settlements. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain pending material litigation matters relating to our business. 35 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make it more difficult to acquire our Company. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (“certificate of incorporation”) and amended and restated bylaws (“bylaws”) contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call special meetings of stockholders to any officer at the request of a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors may by resolution establish one or more series of preferred stock, having such number of shares, designation, relative voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation or other rights, preferences and limitations as may be fixed by the Board of Directors without any further stockholder approval. Such rights, preferences, privileges and limitations as may be established could have the effect of impeding or discouraging the acquisition of control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our equity securities. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 