Item 1A. Risk Factors. The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other applicable securities laws. Such statements can be identified by the use of the forward-looking words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “hope,” “risk,” “could,” “plan,” “pro forma,” “potential,” “predict,” “prospects,” “outlook,” “forecast” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections regarding future developments, operations or financial conditions or state other forward-looking information. These forward-looking statements involve various important risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results for 2009 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could affect our future financial performance and cause actual future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K: We may not be able to grow or maintain comparable store sales Our comparable store sales performance has fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis and is expected to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors have historically affected, and are expected to continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • economic conditions; • weather conditions; • changing fashion trends; • competition; • customer response to our conversion to the Justice store brand; • depth of our promotional activities; • new store openings in existing markets; • store remodeling and expansions; • customer response to our marketing programs; • procurement and management of merchandise inventory; and • development and growth of our Justice brand. 10 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, we may not achieve comparable store sales growth or we may have comparable store sales decline in the future. As comparable store sales are an important measurement, our common stock price may be materially affected by fluctuations in our comparable store sales performance. We must identify and respond to fashion and lifestyle trends and satisfy customer demands in order to continue to succeed Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate the desired fashion and lifestyle trends of our customers and offer merchandise which appeals to them on a timely and affordable basis. We expect our customers’ desired fashion and lifestyle needs to change frequently. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may be adversely affected and we may have excess inventories. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, or take higher than planned markdowns, which could reduce our operating income. Our brand image may also suffer if our customers believe our merchandise misjudgments indicate we are no longer able to offer them the latest fashion and lifestyle products. We may be unable to compete successfully in our highly competitive segment of the retail industry The tween retail apparel and accessories industry is highly competitive. We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We also compete with direct marketers who, like us, target customers through catalogs, internet shopping capabilities and other distribution channels. At any time, new competitors may enter the market. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of our market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. In many cases, our primary competitors are located in the same shopping centers as our stores thereby offering an alternative shopping experience to our customer, and in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms. We depend on a high volume of mall and power center traffic to generate sales Our stores are located in both shopping malls and power centers. Our sales depend, in part, on the high volume of traffic in those shopping areas. Our stores benefit from the traffic generated by the shopping area’s anchor tenants, generally large department and specialty stores. Mall and power center traffic, and consequently our sales volume, may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from other retailers, success of retail centers where we do not have stores, and the closing of anchor tenants. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a particular mall or power center or an overall decline in the popularity of mall and power center shopping among our target consumers could adversely impact mall or power center traffic. To the extent we experience a decline in traffic, our sales could decrease, and result in a decrease in our operating income. Expansion into new and existing markets creates challenges Expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, design and distribution challenges that differ from our current challenges. These challenges include competition among our stores, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution center and additional information to be processed by our information systems. New stores in new markets, including international markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and our brands are less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets. Expansion into new markets could bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. To the extent that we are not able to overcome these new challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating costs could rise. 11 Table of Contents Effectiveness of store remodels is unpredictable In order to maintain a fresh, clean and positive shopping environment for our target customers, we periodically remodel a portion of our existing stores. The desired effects of a store remodel include increased store traffic and sales. The long term effect of a particular store remodel can not be precisely predicted. Additionally, a remodel may cause a short-term disruption to our business at a particular location. The market for prime real estate is competitive In order to optimize profitability, our strategy requires securing desirable retail lease space and opening stores in new and existing markets. We must choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Plans to open new retail stores will depend in part on the availability of suitable store sites. Real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also impact our ability to open new retail stores. Our future success depends upon brand awareness and the effectiveness of our marketing programs Our future success depends upon our ability to effectively define, evolve and promote our brands. In order to achieve and maintain significant brand name recognition, we will need to invest in the development of our brands through various means, including customer research, advertising and promotional events, direct mail marketing, internet marketing and other measures. Certain external costs may be subject to price fluctuations such as increases in the cost of mailing, paper or printing catazines and other direct mail promotions. We can provide no assurance that the marketing strategies we implement and the investments we make will be successful in building significant brand awareness or attracting new customers. Our licensed Limited Too and registered Justice brands are integral to our brand strategy We currently license the Limited Too brand name and have a federal registration for the Justice trademark and other trademarks in the United States. We have also applied for or obtained numerous other registrations in the United States and internationally, including a registration for Justice in most of the foreign countries in which our vendors are located. We cannot be assured that the registrations we have applied for or obtained will be adequate to prevent the imitation of our products or the infringement or challenge of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party imitates our products, consumers may be confused and the third party may gain sales at our expense. If any such products are manufactured or marketed in a manner projecting lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be adversely affected. In addition, our right to utilize the Limited Too brand is governed by an exclusive trademark and service mark licensing agreement with Limited Brands. The agreement is renewable annually, at our option. In return, we are required to provide Limited Brands with the right to inspect our stores and distribution facilities and to review our advertising. Limited Brands has the right to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, specifically if: • we breach any of our obligations under the agreement and do not cure the breach within 60 days after receiving notice of the breach; • we become bankrupt or insolvent; or • we experience a change of control. The agreement also restricts the way in which we use the licensed brand in our business. We may only use the brand name “Limited Too” in connection with any business in which we sell to our target customer group. Although we currently market only to tweens, our licensing agreement allows us to market to infants and toddlers as well. If in the future we are unable to use the Limited Too brand, we will be forced to change our brand name used on some of our merchandise. Because a portion of our merchandise is currently sold under the Limited Too label, a name change might cause confusion for our customers and adversely affect our brand recognition and our sales. We may need to expend substantial resources, which we cannot estimate at this time, to produce new merchandise and to establish brand recognition. 12 Table of Contents Talented personnel are critical to our success Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our senior executive officers and merchandising and design personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could impact our ability to bring desirable products to market or effectively manage our internal operations. Such a loss could reduce future revenues, increase costs, or both. Our success in the future will also depend upon our ability to attract, develop and retain talented and qualified personnel. We may not be able to sustain a growth rate consistent with our past and this could impact our ability to implement our business strategy There is a risk that we may not be able to sustain our growth at a rate consistent with our past. Our future business prospects depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • convert former Limited Too customers to Justice; • find suitable markets and sites for our stores and negotiate leases on acceptable terms for those stores; • fulfill our plans to open new stores and remodel or expand existing stores; • continue to develop our sales channels, including our direct-to-consumer operations; • identify suitable franchise operators for our international expansion initiative; • maintain sufficient infrastructure to accommodate our business strategy, including maintaining high levels of customer service; • attract, train and retain qualified sales associates; • manage our inventory effectively, maintain sufficient distribution capacity and deliver our merchandise in a timely manner; • keep up with constantly shifting fashion trends and develop new and appealing merchandise; and • maintain continued success for our Justice brand. We may require substantial capital expenditures to implement our business strategy, in particular the opening of new stores and/or remodeling or expansion of existing stores. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing under our credit facility or from other sources on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. There would be risks associated with launching and maintaining a new concept As we continue to grow our business, we may take advantage of certain opportunities created by the development of new brand concepts. The ability to succeed in any potential new concept requires significant capital expenditures and management attention. Potential new concepts are subject to certain other risks including: • customer awareness and acceptance of the new brand and its products; • competition, both external and internal; • product and brand differentiation among our already-existing brands; and • the ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel including management and designers. We can provide no assurance that we will develop a new concept or, if we do, that the new concept will grow or become profitable. If we attempt to develop and grow a new brand and do not succeed, this could adversely impact the continued success of our existing brands and our results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our business fluctuates on a seasonal basis We experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales and operating income, with a disproportionate amount of our sales and operating income typically realized during our fourth quarter due to sales during the holiday shopping period. We also generate significant sales during the back-to-school period in the third quarter. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We typically order merchandise in advance of the peak selling periods and often before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. As such, we carry a significant amount of inventory before the holiday and back-to-school selling periods. Inaccurate forecasting and changing customer buying behaviors may result in excess inventory, which may lead to markdowns and inventory valuation adjustments. We rely on a single distribution center We rely on one distribution center to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our stores. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution center due to natural disasters and severe weather, as well as events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures or other unforeseen causes could damage a significant portion of our inventory. These factors may also impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could ultimately increase our costs associated with our supply chain. We rely on foreign sources of production We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities directly. We depend on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our merchandise. We source a large majority of our merchandise from foreign factories located primarily in East and Southeast Asia. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and purchase merchandise in U.S. dollars. We compete with many other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in that region. Changes in U.S. customs regulations may also occur unexpectedly and result in an overall increase in the cost of imported merchandise which may negatively impact our gross margins. Our business also faces a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability; • currency and exchange risks; • local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; • changes in trade restrictions, duties, tariffs or quotas; • international health concerns; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • inability to meet our quality standards. Our future performance will depend upon these factors, which are beyond our control. We source merchandise through our internal sourcing offices in Asia Our offices in Asia engage in contract manufacturing, allowing us to bypass agents, brokers and middlemen and establish and develop direct relationships with manufacturers and reduce our sourcing costs. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our selling margins may decrease which could negatively impact our profitability as a business. We intend to increase our direct sourcing efforts in the future; however, we can provide no assurance that this will happen or be profitable. 14 Table of Contents We utilize ports to import our products from Asia We currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. If a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. Similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the United States could lead to increased lead times and costs on our products. A disruption at ports through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are pursuing a strategy of international expansion As of the end of the fiscal year, we had licensed stores in certain Middle Eastern and Scandinavian countries and Russia and intend to expand into other countries in the future. In addition to the general risks associated with doing business in foreign markets, as stated above, we run the risk of not being able to sustain our growth in these international markets or to penetrate new international markets in the future. As we penetrate these markets, there is increased risk of not fully complying with existing and future laws, rules and regulations of countries where we conduct business. As with any future business strategy, we can provide no assurance that our current and future international endeavors will be successful. We will need to comply with existing and new laws and regulations that govern us Various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations including, for example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, much of our merchandise is subject to various regulations promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. A significant change in the regulatory environment applicable to our operations or merchandise could increase our costs associated with compliance including increased product costs resulting from any new regulations. Further, if we expand our merchandise assortment or increase the number of our suppliers, it may become more difficult or costly to comply with existing and new regulations, which could reduce margins and profits. We rely on our manufacturers to enforce ethical labor practices We require our independent manufacturers to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to them. Our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, but we have limited control over their business and labor practices. We also rely on an independent third party to periodically audit factories producing our goods. If an independent manufacturer violates or is suspected of violating labor laws or other applicable regulations, or if a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices divergent from those typically acceptable in the United States, we could, in turn, experience negative publicity or possible litigation. Negative publicity or legal actions regarding the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, sales, business, and financial position. Our business may be harmed if our computer network security is compromised Despite our considerable efforts and technological resources to secure our computer network, security could be compromised and confidential information relating to our customers could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. This could lead to negative publicity, legal actions, loss of sales and profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for possible damages. We may be a party to legal proceedings that could result in unexpected outcomes and have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving employment issues and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit alleging, among other things, violations of federal securities laws. (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”) We evaluate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities, when appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell We have in the past and may in the future need to recall products that we determine may present safety issues. If products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We many not be able to comply with restrictions and covenants in our Amended Credit Facility Our Amended Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants with which we are required to comply. These covenants require us to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios, and also restrict our ability to incur additional debt, allow liens on our assets, pay or declare dividends or repurchase our common stock. Additionally, our annual capital investment levels are governed by the Amended Credit Facility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default. An event of default, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility and impair our ability to obtain working capital advances and letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to service our debt We may be unable to service the debt drawn under our Amended Credit Facility and/or any other debt we may incur. Additionally, the agreement related to such debt requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our capital expenditures and the total amount we may borrow. The inability to service our debt could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations, as well as affect our ability to borrow additional funds. We may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and the current financial crisis Our performance and operating results are impacted by the relative condition of the U.S. and world economy. The macro-economic environment has been highly volatile due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the deterioration of the housing market, lack of credit availability, fuel and energy prices, unstable interest rates, inflation fears, unemployment concerns, increasing consumer debt, significant stock market volatility and recession. These economic conditions also impact levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, the current credit crisis is causing a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of this crisis on our major suppliers and service providers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers and service providers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers or service providers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise or respective services. Any or all of these factors, as well as other unforeseen factors, could have a material adverse impact on consumer spending, our availability to get credit, our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and stock price. We may not be able to successfully convert Limited Too stores and customers to the Justice brand Our future success largely depends on our ability to convert Limited Too stores in the United States and their customers to our Justice brand in a manner that is minimally disruptive and satisfies our customers’ demands. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to conversion-related issues could lead to customer attrition, lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and increased markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents The benefits expected from the brand conversion program may not be achieved or may take longer to achieve than expected In August 2008, we announced a multi-year conversion program as part of a major drive to enhance profitability and improve overall operating effectiveness. The key elements of our conversion program include: converting Limited Too stores in the United States to our Justice brand, organizational streamlining, and reduced marketing and store operation expenses. The estimated costs and charges associated with the conversion program may vary materially based on various factors, including the timing in execution of the conversion plan; outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties; inventory levels; and changes in our assumptions and projections. As a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the restructuring program. We may recognize impairment on long-lived assets Our long-lived assets, primarily stores, are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Store assets are reviewed using factors including, but not limited to, our future operating plans and projected future cash flows. Failure to achieve our future operating plans or generate sufficient levels of cash flow at our stores could result in impairment charges on long-lived assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, which would adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock In addition to several other continued listing standards, the NYSE requires that issuers with securities listed on the NYSE, such as Tween Brands, maintain an average market capitalization, over a 30-day trading period, greater than $75.0 million. On March 6, 2009, the NYSE notified us that we were in not in compliance with this continued listing standard. We have 45 calendar days from receipt of the notice to respond to the NYSE’s non-compliance notification by submitting a business plan demonstrating how we will regain compliance with this standard within 18 months of receipt of the notice. We have notified the NYSE of our intent to submit a plan that demonstrates how we will become compliant with the above mentioned standard. If the NYSE does not accept the plan, we will be subject to suspension by the NYSE and delisting by the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the NYSE accepts the plan, we will be subject to quarterly monitoring for compliance with the plan. It is not certain that we would be able to successfully implement a plan within the 18-month time period allotted. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price of our common stock might be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No such unresolved comments exist. 