Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business We have a history of net losses and could incur net losses in the future. Except for modest net income of $1.0 million in 2007, $22.1 million in 2006, and $0.5 million in 2005, we have incurred net losses every year since 1993 including net losses of $27.6 million and $7.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2004, respectively. We have an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.0 billion. Current market conditions around residential real estate make it difficult to project if we will become consistently profitable in the future. Furthermore, we have been making significant changes to our organizational structure and our business models. While these changes are being implemented with the belief that they will strengthen our business and our market position in the long run, there can be no assurance that these changes will generate additional revenue or a more efficient cost structure, which will be needed to return to profitability. The emergence of competitors for our services may adversely impact our business. Our existing and potential competitors include web sites offering real estate related content and services as well as general purpose online services, and traditional media such as newspapers, magazines and television that may compete for advertising dollars. The real estate search services market in which our Real Estate Services division operates is becoming increasingly competitive. A number of competitors have emerged or intensified their focus on the real estate market, including Yahoo! Real Estate, Tree.com (formerly Lending Tree and RealEstate.com), Market Leader, Inc. (formerly HouseValues.com), HomeGain (a division of Classified Ventures, LLC), ApartmentGuide.com, Rent.com, ForRent.com, Apartments.com, NewHomeGuide.com, NewHomeSource.com and more recently Trulia, Google, and Zillow as well as general interest consumer web sites that offer home, moving and finance content, including ServiceMagic, Inc. (a division of InterActive Corp), and Living Choices (a division of Network Communications, Inc.). The barriers to entry for web-based services and businesses are low. In addition, parties with whom we have listing and marketing agreements could choose to develop their own Internet strategies or competing real estate sites. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name recognition, larger consumer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. The rapid pace of technological change constantly creates new opportunities for existing and new competitors and it can quickly render our existing technologies less valuable. Developments in the real estate search services market may also encourage additional competitors to enter that market. See “We may not be able to continue to obtain more listings from MLSs and real estate brokers than other web site operators” below. We cannot predict how, if at all, our competitors may respond to our initiatives. We also cannot provide assurance that our offerings will be able to compete successfully against these competitors or new competitors that enter our markets. We may not be able to continue to obtain more listings from MLSs and real estate brokers than other web site operators. We believe that the success of REALTOR.com® depends, in part, on displaying a larger and more current database of existing homes for sale than other web sites. We obtain these listings through agreements with MLSs that have fixed terms, typically 12 to 36 months. At the end of the term of each agreement, the MLS could choose not to renew their agreement with us. There are no assurances the MLSs will continue to renew their agreements to provide listing data to us. If they choose not to renew their relationship with us, then REALTOR.com® could become less attractive to consumers and thus, less attractive to our advertising customers. 9 Table of Contents Individual real estate brokers, using IDX technology from their local MLS, can display on their web sites listings from all participating brokers in the market covered by the MLS. In the past, the NAR had guidelines in place for MLSs that allowed a broker to prevent MLSs from providing such broker’s listing data to other brokers’ web sites. In a civil antitrust lawsuit brought against NAR in 2005, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) challenged this policy by alleging that it is in violation of federal antitrust laws. In 2008, the NAR and the DOJ reached an agreement regarding NAR’s multiple listing policy as it pertains to the display of listings from the MLSs on brokers’ virtual office web sites (“VOWs”). As a result, NAR has required all MLSs to adopt new VOW policies by February 15, 2009. Under the new policies, MLS participants will no longer be allowed to opt-out of having their listings shown on the VOWs of other participants, thus a real estate broker operating a VOW would be permitted to display listings from all MLS participants on its web site. These VOW policies do not apply to REALTOR.com®. The NAR’s new VOW policies could make it easier for other web sites operators to aggregate listing data for display over the Internet in a manner comparable to REALTOR.com®. This could impact how consumers and customers value our content and product offerings on the REALTOR.com® web site. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future. We have made significant investments in our businesses and incurred restructuring charges as we have made adjustments to our business model. As we change business models, we could experience a decline in quarterly revenue. If revenue from these initiatives falls below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce our spending or change our pricing models rapidly in response to the shortfall. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and include: • the level at which real estate agents, brokers, homebuilders and rental owners renew the arrangements through which they obtain our services; • a continued downturn in the residential real estate market and the impact on advertising; • the amount of advertising sold on our web sites and the timing of payments for this advertising; and • the costs from pending litigation, including the cost of settlements. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may continue to impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our long-term investments included $111.8 million of high-grade (AAA rated) student loan auction rate securities issued by student loan funding organizations, which loans are 97% guaranteed under FFELP (Federal Family Education Loan Program). These auction rate securities (“ARS”) were intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the interest rate, generally every 28 days, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or sell them at par. In February 2008, auctions for the investments in these securities failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, the securities mature, or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2030 to 2047 with principal distributions occurring on certain securities prior to maturity. We do not have a need to access these funds for operational purposes for the foreseeable future. Subject to an arbitration proceeding described in Note 23 “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we currently have the intent to hold these ARS investments until their fair value recovers, until they reach maturity or until they can be sold in a market that facilitates orderly transactions. We have classified the ARS investment balance as Long-term Investments because of the inability to determine when these investments will become liquid. We have also modified our current investment strategy and increased our investments in more liquid money market and treasury bill investments. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we determined that there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $17.6 million which we deemed as temporary and included in Other Comprehensive Income. 10 Table of Contents The valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes in credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. If the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required in future periods to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income (loss) or depending on the circumstances existing at the time, such losses may be considered other than temporary and recorded as a component of net income (loss). The mortgage, financial and credit markets have been and continue to experience unprecedented disruption, which have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis could impact our business in a number of ways. The U.S. residential real estate market is currently in a significant downturn due to downward pressure on housing prices, credit constraints inhibiting home buyers and an exceptionally large inventory of unsold homes. We cannot predict when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to normal conditions. Until market conditions improve, our customers’ ability to continue advertising on our sites could be adversely impacted. We could be required to expend substantial amounts in connection with continuing indemnification obligations to a purchaser of one of our businesses. As part of the sale in 2002 of our ConsumerInfo division to Experian Holdings, Inc. (“Experian”), $10.0 million of the purchase price was put in escrow to secure our indemnification obligations (the “Indemnity Escrow”). The Indemnity Escrow was scheduled to terminate in the third quarter of 2003, but prior to the scheduled termination, Experian demanded indemnification from us for claims made against Experian or its subsidiaries by several parties in civil actions and by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), including allegations of unfair and deceptive advertising in connection with ConsumerInfo’s furnishing of credit reports and providing “Advice for Improving Credit” that appeared on its web site both before, during and after our ownership of ConsumerInfo. Under the stock purchase agreement pursuant to which we sold ConsumerInfo to Experian (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”), we could have elected to defend against the claims, but because the alleged conduct occurred both before and after our sale to Experian, we elected to rely on Experian to defend them, which they did. Substantially all of those claims have now been resolved. Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, our maximum potential liability for claims by Experian is capped at $29.25 million less the balance in escrow, which amount was approximately $8.5 million on December 31, 2008. During 2008, Experian demanded $29.25 million in indemnity payments. We denied liability for that sum and a bifurcated arbitration proceeding ensued to resolve the dispute. The parties have agreed to settle the dispute, the economic terms of which are that Experian will receive $7.4 million from the escrow and we will receive the balance of the escrow. Further, the parties agreed to execute a mutual release of all claims which, among other things, will have the legal effect of terminating our indemnification obligations and make Experian solely responsible for any unresolved third party claims for which indemnity could have been sought by Experian against us under the Stock Purchase Agreement. The parties are currently in the process of documenting this settlement agreement. We are and may continue to be involved in litigation and other disputes. Our business and operations may subject us to claims, litigation and other proceedings brought by private parties and governmental authorities. We are currently involved in several matters, which are described in Note 23, 11 Table of Contents “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 in this Form 10-K. Litigation may also result from other companies owning or obtaining patents or other intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our products and services. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, including in the Internet industry, and companies in the Internet market are increasingly making claims alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We have in the past and are currently involved in intellectual property-related litigation, and we may be involved in these and other disputes in the future, to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others. Any such lawsuit, including those we are currently defending, may result in significant monetary damages against us that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Moreover, even those intellectual property disputes that are ultimately resolved in our favor, are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and divert management’s time and attention. In addition to subjecting us to monetary damages, any intellectual property dispute could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using services that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay significant sums to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe; and • redesign those services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, such actions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Pursuant to our operating agreement with NAR, we may also be required to indemnify NAR and other third parties for liabilities arising from the infringement or alleged infringement of third parties’ intellectual property rights, and these indemnification obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights. We regard substantial elements of our web sites and underlying technology as proprietary. Despite our precautionary measures, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our proprietary information could be unsuccessful, expensive and distract management from day-to-day operations. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent or limit or interfere with use of the trademarks we use. The REALTOR.com® web site address and trademark and the REALTOR® trademark are important to our business and are licensed to us by NAR. If we were to lose the REALTOR.com® domain name or the use of these trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing an independent brand identity. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we can give no assurance regarding the future viability or value of any of these proprietary rights. Our Series B Preferred Stock could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. In November 2005, we sold to Elevation Partners, L.P. and Elevation Employee Side Fund, LLC (together, “Elevation”) an aggregate of 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Participating Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. For so long as the holders of Series B Preferred Stock hold at least one-sixth of these 100,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, we are generally not permitted, without obtaining the consent of holders representing at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, to create or issue any equity securities that rank senior or on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation. In addition, our stockholders agreement with Elevation limits the amount of debt we can incur. If we need to raise additional capital through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements to execute our business plan, we would be restricted in the 12 Table of Contents type of equity securities that we could offer and the amount of debt we can incur without the consent of Elevation. We cannot offer any assurances that we would be able to obtain that consent. If we were unable to obtain Elevation’s consent, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the amounts needed to fund our business or on terms that are desirable. Our relationship with the NAR is an important part of our business plan and our business could be harmed if we were to lose the benefits of this agreement. The REALTOR.com® trademark and web site address and the REALTOR® trademark are owned by NAR. NAR licenses these trademarks to our subsidiary RealSelect under a license agreement, and RealSelect operates the REALTOR.com® web site under an operating agreement with NAR. Our operating agreement with NAR contains restrictions on how we can operate the REALTOR.com® web site. For example, we can only enter into agreements with entities that provide us with real estate listings, such as MLSs, on terms approved by NAR. In addition, NAR can require us to include on REALTOR.com® real estate related content that it has developed. Our operating agreement with NAR, as amended, also contains a number of provisions that restrict how we operate our business. For example: • we would need to obtain the consent of NAR if we want to acquire or develop another service that provides real estate listings on an Internet site or through other electronic means; any consent from NAR, if obtained, could be conditioned on our agreeing to conditions such as paying fees to NAR or limiting the types of content or listings on the web sites or service or other terms and conditions; • we are restricted in the type and subject matter of, and the manner in which we display, advertisements on the REALTOR.com® web site; • NAR has the right to approve how we use its trademarks, and we must comply with its quality standards for the use of these marks; and • we must meet performance standards relating to the availability time of the REALTOR.com® web site. NAR also has significant influence over our corporate governance, including the right to have one representative as a member of our board of directors (out of a current total of 10) and two representatives as members of our RealSelect’s subsidiary’s board of directors (out of a current total of 8). RealSelect also cannot take certain actions, including amending its certificate of incorporation or bylaws, pledging its assets and making changes in its executive officers or board of directors, without the consent of at least one of NAR’s representatives on its board of directors. Although the REALTOR.com® operating agreement is a perpetual agreement and it does not contain provisions that allow us to terminate, NAR may terminate it for a variety of reasons. These include: • the acquisition of us or RealSelect by another party without NAR’s consent; • if traffic on the REALTOR.com® site falls below 500,000 unique users per month; • a substantial decrease in the number of property listings on our REALTOR.com® site; and • a breach of any of our other obligations under the agreement that we do not cure within 30 days of being notified by NAR of the breach. If our operating agreement with NAR were terminated, we would be required to transfer a copy of the software that operates the REALTOR.com® web site and provide copies of our agreements with data content providers, such as real estate brokers or MLSs, to NAR. NAR would then be able to operate the REALTOR.com® web site itself or with another third party. We must dedicate significant resources to market our subscription products and services to real estate professionals. Real estate agents are generally independent contractors rather than employees of brokers and typically spend a majority of their time outside the office. As a result, it is often necessary for us to communicate with them on an 13 Table of Contents individual basis. This results in relatively high fixed costs associated with our inside and field-based sales activities. In addition, since we offer services to both real estate brokers and agents, we are often required to contact them separately when marketing our products and services. Our future success depends largely on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of key employees would likely have a significantly detrimental effect on our business. Several of our key senior management have employment agreements that we believe will assist in our ability to retain them. However, many other key employees do not have employment agreements. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and geographical locations is intense. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel with experience in the real estate industry, a complex industry that requires a unique knowledge base, is an additional challenge for us. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, retaining and motivating a sufficient number of qualified employees to conduct our business in the future. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, excessive turnover of our work force, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our net operating loss carry forwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. At December 31, 2008, we had gross net operating losses carry forwards (“NOLs”) for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $934.6 million and $351.3 million, respectively, and we could generate NOLs in future years. The federal NOLs will begin to expire in 2018. Approximately $20.1 million of the state NOLs expired in 2008 and the state NOLs will continue to expire from 2009 to 2027. Gross net operating loss carry forwards for both federal and state tax purposes may be subject to an annual limitation under relevant tax laws. Utilization of the NOLs may also be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), as well as similar state limitations. These ownership changes may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually to offset future federal taxable income. Section 382 of the Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOLs and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules impact any ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5% stockholders, our ability to use our NOLs and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations under Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOLs could expire before we would be able to recognize the benefit of using them. Our inability to utilize our NOLs could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our operating agreement with NAR, other agreements with business partners and our stockholders agreement with Elevation could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our stockholders are unable to act by written consent or to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors. Our stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders for any purpose, including removing any director or the entire Board of Directors without cause. Certain terms of the Series B Preferred Stock could also discourage a third party from acquiring us. Upon a change in control, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase all of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for total cash consideration generally equal to 101% of the liquidation preference ($100 million plus all accrued and unpaid dividends) plus, under certain 14 Table of Contents circumstances, 101% of a portion of the dividends which would have accrued had the Series B Preferred Stock remained outstanding. In addition, NAR could terminate the REALTOR.com® operating agreement if we are acquired and they do not consent to the acquisition. Real Estate Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the strength of the real estate industry, which is both cyclical and seasonal and is affected by general economic conditions. The real estate industry traditionally has been cyclical. Economic swings in the real estate industry may be caused by various factors. When interest rates are high or general national and global economic conditions are or are perceived to be weak, there is typically less sales activity in real estate. A decrease in the current level of sales of real estate and products and services related to real estate could adversely affect demand for our products and services. In addition, reduced traffic on our web sites could cause our subscription and advertising revenue to decline, which would adversely affect our business. During recessionary periods, there tends to be a corresponding decline in demand for real estate, generally and regionally, that could adversely affect certain segments of our business. Such adverse effects typically are a general decline in rents and sales prices, a decline in leasing activity, a decline in the level of investments in, and the value of real estate, and an increase in defaults by tenants under their respective leases. All of these, in turn, adversely affect revenue for fees and brokerage commissions, which are derived from property sales, annual rental payments, and property management fees which may or may not influence advertising. Purchases of real property and related products and services are particularly affected by negative trends in the general economy. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and business spending, and the overall economy, as well as regional and local economic conditions in markets where we operate, including interest rates, taxation policies, availability of credit, employment levels, wage and salary levels and fears of terrorist attacks or threats of war. We could also experience seasonality in our business as we offer new products and new pricing models. The real estate industry, in most areas of the United States, generally experiences a decrease in activity during the winter months and traffic on our web sites generally declines during the fourth quarter, which can negatively affect revenue from our products that are directly tied to such traffic. We have risks associated with changing legislation in the real estate industry. Real estate is a heavily regulated industry in the U.S., including regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and state advertising laws. In addition, states could enact legislation or regulatory policies in the future, which could require us to expend significant resources to comply. These laws and related regulations may limit or restrict our activities. As the real estate industry evolves in the Internet environment, legislators, regulators and industry participants may advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives. Should existing laws or regulations be amended or new laws or regulations be adopted, we may need to comply with additional legal requirements and incur resulting costs, or we may be precluded from certain activities. For instance, our Move® Rentals business required us to qualify and register as a real estate agent/broker in the State of California. To date, we have not spent significant resources on lobbying or related government issues. Any need to significantly increase our lobbying or related activities could substantially increase our operating costs. Internet Industry Risks Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems. Temporary or permanent outages of our computers or software equipment could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have not experienced any material outages to date, we currently do not have fully redundant systems for our web sites and other services at an alternate site. Therefore, our systems are vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage, while adequate to replace assets and compensate for losses incurred, may not be adequate to 15 Table of Contents compensate for the disruption it causes our customers and consumers, which could affect our future revenues and traffic. Experienced computer programmers seeking to intrude or cause harm, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any material security breaches to date, if a hacker were to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a risk of loss. We depend on continued improvements to our computer network. Any failure of our computer systems that causes interruption or slower response time of our web sites or services could result in a smaller number of users of our web sites or the web sites that we host for real estate professionals. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our web sites to consumers and our subscription products and services to real estate professionals, providers of real estate-related products and services and other Internet advertisers. Increases in the volume of our web site traffic could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause the number of real property search inquiries, advertising impressions, other revenue producing offerings and our informational offerings to decline, any of which could hurt our revenue growth and our brand loyalty. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if our systems cannot handle current or higher volumes of traffic. We may not be able to project accurately the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business, or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. We could face liability for information on our web sites and for products and services sold over the Internet. We provide third-party content on our web sites, particularly real estate listings. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this third-party information. Persons might assert, among other things, that by directly or indirectly providing a link to web sites operated by third parties, we should be liable for copyright or trademark infringement or other wrongful actions by the third parties operating those web sites. They could also assert that our third-party information contains errors or omissions, and consumers could seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information. We enter into agreements with other companies under which we share with these other companies’ revenue resulting from advertising or the purchase of services through direct links to or from our web sites. These arrangements may expose us to additional legal risks and uncertainties, including local, state, federal and foreign government regulation and potential liabilities to consumers of these services, even if we do not provide the services ourselves. We cannot offer any assurance that any indemnification provided to us in our agreements with these parties, if available, will be adequate. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 