ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to other factors and matters discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that Puget Energy and PSE may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may impair PSE’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, Puget Energy’s and PSE’s business, results of operations and financial conditions would suffer. RISKS RELATING TO THE UTILITY BUSINESS The actions of regulators can significantly affect PSE’s earnings, liquidity and business activities. The rates that PSE is allowed to charge for its services is the single most important item influencing its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE is highly regulated and the rates that it charges its customers are determined by the Washington Commission. PSE is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Washington Commission with respect to accounting, the issuance of securities and certain other matters, and the regulatory authority of FERC with respect to the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting and certain other matters. Policies and regulatory actions by these regulators could have a material impact on PSE’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE’s recovery of costs is subject to regulatory review and its operating income may be adversely affected if its costs are disallowed or recovery is delayed. The Washington Commission determines the rates PSE may charge to its retail customers based on a normalized cost of producing power. If in a specific year PSE’s costs are higher than normal, rates will not be sufficient to permit PSE to earn the allowed return or to cover its costs and recovery of energy costs will be deferred until subsequent ratemaking proceedings. In addition, the Washington Commission decides what level of expense and investment is reasonable and prudent in providing service. If the Washington Commission decides that part of PSE’s costs do not meet the standard, those costs may be disallowed partially or entirely and not recovered in rates. For these reasons, the rates authorized by the Washington Commission may not be sufficient to earn the allowed return or recover the costs incurred by PSE in a given period. The PCA mechanism by which variations in PSE’s power costs are apportioned between PSE and its customers is no longer subject to a cap, which could result in significant increases in PSE’s expenses. PSE has a PCA mechanism that provides for recovery of power costs from customers or refunding of power cost savings to customers, as those costs vary from the “power cost baseline” level of power costs which are set in part based on normalized assumptions about weather and hydro conditions. Excess power costs or power cost savings will be apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to the graduated scale set forth in the PCA mechanism. Beginning after June 30, 2006, PSE’s share of power cost variations is no longer capped. As a result, if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline level, PSE’s expenses could significantly increase. PSE may be unable to acquire energy supply resources to meet projected customer needs or may fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions. PSE projects that future energy needs will exceed current purchased and Company-controlled power resources. As part of PSE’s business strategy, it plans to acquire additional electric generation and delivery infrastructure to meet customer needs. If PSE cannot acquire further additional energy supply resources at a reasonable cost, it may be required to purchase additional power in the open market at a cost that could significantly increase its expenses and reduce earnings and cash flows. Additionally, PSE may not be able to timely recover some or all of those increased expenses through ratemaking. While PSE expects to identify the benefits of new energy supply resources prior to their acquisition and integration, it may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such energy supply sources. The Company’s cash flow and earnings could be adversely affected by potential high prices and volatile markets for purchased power, increased customer demand for energy, recurrence of low availability of hydroelectric resources, outages of its generating facilities or a failure to deliver on the part of its suppliers. The utility business involves many operating risks. If PSE’s operating expenses, including the cost of purchased power and natural gas, significantly exceed the levels recovered from retail customers for an extended period of time, its cash flow and earnings would be negatively affected. Factors which could cause purchased power and natural gas costs to be higher than anticipated include, but are not limited to, high prices in western wholesale markets during periods when PSE has insufficient energy resources to meet its load requirements and/or high volumes of energy purchased in wholesale markets at prices above the amount recovered in retail rates due to: · Increases in demand due, for example, either to weather or customer growth; · Below normal energy generated by PSE-owned hydroelectric resources due to low streamflow conditions; · Extended outages of any of PSE-owned generating facilities or the transmission lines that deliver energy to load centers; · Failure to perform on the part of any party from which PSE purchases capacity or energy; and · The effects of large-scale natural disasters, such as the hurricanes recently experienced in the southern United States. PSE’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. PSE owns and operates coal, natural gas-fired, hydro, wind-powered and oil-fired generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are: · Increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; · Facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply; · Disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; · Labor disputes; · Inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; · Disruptions in the delivery of electricity; · Operator error; · Terrorist attacks; and · Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. PSE is subject to the commodity price, delivery and credit risks associated with the energy markets. In connection with matching loads and resources, PSE engages in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity and energy, and, accordingly, is subject to commodity price risk, delivery risk, credit risk and other risks associated with these activities. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties owing PSE money or energy will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, PSE may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, PSE’s financial results could be adversely affected. Although PSE’s models take into account the expected probability of default by counterparties, actual exposure to a default by a particular counterparty could be greater than the models predict. To lower its financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, PSE may use forward delivery agreements, swaps and option contracts to hedge commodity price risk with a diverse group of counterparties. However, PSE does not always cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent PSE has unhedged positions or its hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could adversely impact its results of operations. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. PSE is in the process of renewing the federal licenses for its Baker River hydroelectric project and implementing the federal licensing requirements for the Snoqualmie Falls hydroelectric project. The relicensing process is a political and public regulatory process that involves sensitive resource issues. PSE cannot predict with certainty the conditions that may be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, whether new licenses will ultimately be issued, modified, or whether PSE will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating these hydroelectric projects. Costs of compliance with environmental, climate change and endangered species laws are significant and the cost of compliance with new and emerging laws and regulations and the incurrence of associated liabilities could adversely affect PSE’s results of operations. PSE’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, climate change and endangered species protection. To comply with these legal requirements, PSE must spend significant sums on measures including resource planning, remediation, monitoring, pollution control equipment and emissions related abatement and fees. New environmental, climate change and endangered species laws and regulations affecting PSE’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to PSE or its facilities which may substantially increase environmental, climate change and endangered species expenditures made by PSE in the future. Compliance with these or other future regulations could require significant capital expenditures by PSE and adversely affect PSE’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, PSE may not be able to recover all of its costs for such expenditures through electric and natural gas rates at current levels in the future. With respect to endangered species laws, the listing or proposed listing of several species of salmon in the Pacific Northwest is causing a number of changes to the operations of hydroelectric generating facilities on Pacific Northwest rivers, including the Columbia River. These changes could reduce the amount, and increase the cost, of power generated by hydroelectric plants owned by PSE or in which PSE has an interest and increase the cost of the permitting process for these facilities. Under current law, PSE is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that it currently owns or operates or has previously owned or operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before or during the time the facility was owned or operated by PSE. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or the new regulations governing such liability could result in substantial future costs and have a material adverse effect on PSE’s results of operations and financial condition. Specific to climate change, Washington State has adopted both a renewable portfolio standard and greenhouse gas legislation, including an emission performance standard provision. Recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions related to climate change have also drawn greater attention to this issue at the federal, state and local level. PSE cannot yet determine the costs of compliance with the recently enacted legislation. The Company’s business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital markets. The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets as a source of liquidity and longer-term capital markets to fund its utility construction program and other capital expenditure requirements not satisfied by cash flow from its operations. If the Company is unable to access capital on reasonable terms, its ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions, including generating capacity, which may be relied on for future growth and to otherwise implement its strategy, could be adversely affected. Capital and credit market disruptions or a downgrade of the Company’s credit rating may increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. A downgrade in the Company’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital and the ability to hedge in wholesale markets. Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services rate PSE’s senior secured debt at “BBB+” with a negative outlook and “Baa2” with a stable outlook, respectively. Although the Company is not aware of any current plans of S&P or Moody’s to lower their respective ratings on PSE’s debt, the Company cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not be downgraded. Although neither Puget Energy nor PSE has any rating downgrade provisions in its credit facilities that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to renew existing or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities. For example, under PSE’s revolving credit facility, the spreads over the index and commitment fee increase as PSE’s corporate credit ratings decline. A downgrade in commercial paper ratings could preclude PSE’s ability to issue commercial paper under its current programs. Any downgrade below investment grade of PSE’s senior secured debt could allow counterparties in the wholesale electric, wholesale natural gas and financial derivative markets to require PSE to post a letter of credit or other collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other mutually agreeable security, all of which would expose PSE to additional costs. The Company’s operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. PSE’s business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on its operating performance. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, demand depends heavily on weather patterns in PSE’s service territory, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. However, the recent increase in the price of natural gas as well as conservation efforts may result in decreased customer demand, despite normal or lower than normal temperatures. Demand for electricity is also greater in the winter months associated with heating. Accordingly, PSE’s operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter. In the event that the Company experiences unusually mild winters, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company may be adversely affected by legal proceedings arising out of the electricity supply situation in the western power markets, which could result in refunds or other liabilities. The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and complaints with respect to power markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in western power markets in 2000 and 2001, which allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices and allegedly may have been the result of manipulations by certain other parties. These proceedings include, but are not limited to, refund proceedings and hearings in California and the Pacific Northwest and complaints and cross-complaints filed by various parties with respect to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. Litigation is subject to numerous uncertainties and PSE is unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not materially and adversely affect PSE’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company may be negatively affected by its inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees. The Company’s ability to implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers in an aging workforce. Without a skilled workforce, the Company’s ability to provide quality service to PSE’s customers and meet regulatory requirements will be challenged and could affect earnings. The Company may be adversely affected by extreme events in which the Company is not able to promptly respond and repair the electric and gas infrastructure system. The Company must maintain an emergency planning and training program to allow the Company to quickly respond to extreme events. Without emergency planning, the Company is subject to availability of outside contractors during an extreme event which may impact the quality of service provided to PSE’s customers. In addition, a slow response to extreme events may have an adverse affect on earnings as customers may be without electricity and natural gas for an extended period of time. The Company may be negatively affected by unfavorable changes in the tax laws or their interpretation. Changes in tax law, related regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The tax law, related regulations and case law are inherently complex. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. The Company’s tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use, business and occupation and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities. RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY’S PROPOSED MERGER AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE There are risks if the Company does not complete the proposed merger with the Consortium. If the merger the Company announced on October 26, 2007 is not completed for any reason, Puget Energy will remain an independent public company and the common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. While we expect that management will operate the business in a manner similar to that in which it is being operated today, if the merger is not completed, Puget Energy may suffer negative financial ramifications, including the following: · The current market price of Puget Energy’s common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by investors in Puget Energy generally and could cause a decline in the market price of Puget Energy’s common stock. This could affect Puget Energy’s ability to access the equity markets to fund PSE’s construction program and working capital needs. · Puget Energy might be required to pay an up to $40.0 million termination fee, and up to $10.0 million of expenses, to the Consortium, which could adversely impact liquidity (or if no termination fee is payable, up to $15.0 million). As a holding company, Puget Energy is subject to restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, the primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to its shareholders is dividends PSE pays to Puget Energy. PSE is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to pay any amounts to Puget Energy, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of PSE to pay dividends or make distributions to Puget Energy, and accordingly, Puget Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock, will depend on its earnings, capital requirements and general financial condition. If Puget Energy does not receive adequate distributions from PSE, it may not be able to make or may have to reduce dividend payments on its common stock. PSE’s payment of common stock dividends to Puget Energy is restricted by provisions of covenants applicable to its preferred stock and long-term debt contained in its restated articles of incorporation and electric and natural gas mortgage indentures. Puget Energy’s Board of Directors reviews the dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above and cannot assure shareholders of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Future sales of Puget Energy’s common stock on the public market could lower the stock price. Puget Energy may sell additional shares of common stock in public offerings, through the stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan or through common stock offering programs which it has entered into with two financial institutions. Puget Energy cannot predict the size of future issuances of common stock, or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of common stock will have on the market price of common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of common stock. The market price for common stock is uncertain and may fluctuate significantly. Puget Energy cannot predict whether the market price of its common stock will rise or fall. Numerous factors influence the trading price of its common stock. These factors may include changes in financial condition, results of operations and prospects, legal and administrative proceedings and political, economic, financial and other factors that can affect the capital markets generally, the stock exchanges on which Puget Energy’s common stock is traded and its business segments. Certain provisions of law, as well as provisions in the restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholders rights plan, may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of Puget Energy. Puget Energy is a Washington corporation and certain anti-takeover provisions of Washington laws apply and create various impediments to the acquisition of control of Puget Energy or to the consummation of certain business combinations. In addition, Puget Energy’s restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholders rights plan contain provisions which may make it more difficult to remove incumbent directors or effect certain business combinations with Puget Energy without the approval of the Board of Directors. These provisions of law and of Puget Energy’s corporate documents, individually or in the aggregate, could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual shareholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 