Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Prolonged economic weakness, particularly in the middleware, software and services market, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the levels of business activities of our clients, which can be affected by economic conditions in the United States (“U.S.”) and worldwide. During periods of economic downturns, our clients may decrease their demand for information technology services. In 2008 and 2009, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, capital spending, and adverse business conditions. If these conditions continue, they may cause our customers to delay or cancel information technology projects, reduce their overall information technology budgets and/or reduce or cancel orders for our services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection issues, and may also result in price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and operating margins. Additionally, if our clients cancel or delay their business and technology initiatives or choose to move these initiatives in-house, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The market for the information technology consulting services we provide is competitive, has low barriers to entry and is becoming increasingly consolidated, which may adversely affect our market position. The market for the information technology consulting services we provide is competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into this market and therefore new entrants may compete with us in the future. For example, due to the rapid changes and volatility in our market, many well-capitalized companies, including some of our partners, that have focused on sectors of the software and services industry that are not competitive with our business may refocus their activities and deploy their resources to be competitive with us. An increasing amount of information technology services are being provided by lower-cost non-domestic resources. The increased utilization of these resources for U.S.-based projects could result in lower revenues and margins for U.S.-based information technology companies. Our ability to compete utilizing higher-cost domestic resources and/or our ability to procure comparably priced offshore resources could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our future financial performance will depend, in large part, on our ability to establish and maintain an advantageous market position. We currently compete with regional and national information technology consulting firms, and, to a limited extent, offshore service providers and in-house information technology departments. Many of the larger regional and national information technology consulting firms have substantially longer operating histories, more established reputations and potential vendor relationships, greater financial resources, sales and marketing organizations, market penetration, and research and development capabilities, as well as broader product offerings and greater market presence and name recognition. We may face increasing competitive pressures from these competitors. This may place us at a disadvantage to our competitors, which may harm our ability to grow, maintain revenues or generate net income. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation in our industry and we expect that there will be additional consolidation in the future. As a result of this increasing consolidation, we expect that we will increasingly compete with larger firms that have broader product offerings and greater financial resources than we have. We believe that this competition could have a negative effect on our marketing, distribution and reselling relationships, pricing of services and products, and our product development budget and capabilities. One or more of our competitors may develop and implement methodologies that result in superior productivity and price reductions without adversely affecting their profit margins. In addition, competitors may win client engagements by significantly discounting their services in exchange for a client’s promise to purchase other goods and services from the competitor, either concurrently or in the future. These activities may potentially force us to lower our prices and suffer reduced operating margins. Any of these negative effects could significantly impair our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully against new or existing competitors. 9 Our business will suffer if we do not keep up with rapid technological change, evolving industry standards or changing customer requirements. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs are common in the software and services market. We expect technological developments to continue at a rapid pace in our industry. Technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs could cause our business to be rendered obsolete or non-competitive, especially if the market for the core set of business-driven technology solutions and software platforms in which we have expertise does not grow or if such growth is delayed due to market acceptance, economic uncertainty or other conditions. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: · continue to develop our technology expertise; · enhance our current services; · develop new services that meet changing customer needs; · advertise and market our services; and · influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We must accomplish all of these tasks in a timely and cost-effective manner. We might not succeed in effectively doing any of these tasks, and our failure to succeed could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, including materially reducing our revenues and operating results. We may also incur substantial costs to keep up with changes surrounding the Internet. Unresolved critical issues concerning the commercial use and government regulation of the Internet include the following: · security; · intellectual property ownership; · privacy; · taxation; and · liability issues. Any costs we incur because of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reduced net income. International operations subject us to additional political and economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our business. We maintain a global development center in Hangzhou, China and a technology consulting recruiting facility in Chennai, India. Because of our limited experience with facilities outside of the U.S., we are subject to certain risks related to expanding our presence into non-U.S. regions, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies, and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Furthermore, there are risks inherent in operating in and expanding into non-U.S. regions, including, but not limited to: · political and economic instability; · global health conditions and potential natural disasters; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · international currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and · additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting American interests abroad. Any one or more of the factors set forth above could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Immigration restrictions related to H1-B visas could hinder our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 23% of our billable workforce is comprised of skilled foreign nationals holding H1-B visas. We also own a recruiting facility in Chennai, India, to continue to grow our base of H1-B foreign national colleagues. The H1-B visa classification enables us to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require the equivalent of at least a bachelor’s degree in the U.S. in a specialty occupation such as technology systems engineering and analysis. The H1-B visa generally permits an individual to work and live in the U.S. for a period of three to six years, with some extensions available. The number of new H1-B petitions approved in any federal fiscal year is limited, making the H1-B visas necessary to bring foreign employees to the U.S. unobtainable in years in which the limit is reached. If we are unable to obtain all of the H1-B visas for which we apply, our growth may be hindered. We may not be able to attract and retain information technology consulting professionals, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, retain, motivate, manage, and effectively utilize highly skilled information technology consulting professionals. There is often considerable competition for qualified personnel in the information technology services industry. Additionally, our technology professionals are primarily at-will employees. We also use independent subcontractors where appropriate to supplement our employee capacity. Failure to retain highly skilled technology professionals or hire qualified independent subcontractors would impair our ability to adequately manage staff and implement our existing projects and to bid for or obtain new projects, which in turn would adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends on attracting and retaining senior management and key personnel. The information technology services industry is highly specialized and the competition for qualified management and key personnel is intense. We believe that our success depends on retaining our senior management team and key technical and business consulting personnel. Retention is particularly important in our business as personal relationships are a critical element of obtaining and maintaining strong relationships with our clients. In addition, as we grow our business, our need for senior experienced management and implementation personnel increases. If a significant number of these individuals resign, or if we are unable to attract top talent, our level of management, technical, marketing, and sales expertise could diminish or otherwise be insufficient for our growth. We may be unable to achieve our revenues and operating performance objectives unless we can attract and retain technically qualified and highly skilled sales, technical, business consulting, marketing, and management personnel. These individuals would be difficult to replace, and losing them could seriously harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon building long-term relationships with our clients and our operating results could suffer if we fail to maintain these relationships. Our professional services agreements with clients are in most cases terminable on 10 to 30 days notice. A client may choose at any time to use another consulting firm or choose to perform services we provide through their own internal resources. A sustained decrease in a client’s business activity could cause the cancellation of projects. Accordingly, we rely on our clients' interests in maintaining the continuity of our services rather than on contractual requirements. Termination of a relationship with a significant client or with a group of clients that account for a significant portion of our revenues could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If we fail to meet our clients' performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed. As a services provider, our ability to attract and retain clients depends to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality services and integrity. We also believe that the importance of reputation and name recognition is increasing and will continue to increase due to the number of providers of information technology services. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services or does not perceive our solutions to be effective or of high quality, our reputation may be damaged and we may be unable to attract new, or retain existing, clients and colleagues. 11 We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we do not protect client data or information systems or if our information systems are breached. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation. We may face potential liability to customers if our customers' systems fail. Our technology solutions are often critical to the operation of our customers' businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. If one of our customers' systems fails, the customer could make a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for that failure. The limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable in all instances and may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. In addition, a given insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claims. Due to the nature of our business, it is possible that we will be sued in the future. If we experience one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or result in changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, our business and financial results could suffer. Our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot be sure that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us. These claims may harm our reputation, cause our management to expend significant time in connection with any defense and cost us money. We may be required to indemnify clients for any expense or liabilities they incur resulting from claimed infringement and these expenses could exceed the amounts paid to us by the client for services we have performed. Any claims in this area, even if won by us, can be costly, time-consuming and harmful to our reputation. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we help create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. If our negotiated fees do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate fees with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions, including time and materials and fixed fee contracts. Our fees are highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. We could face greater risk when negotiating fees for our contracts that involve the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations and/or utilizing workforces with different skillsets and competencies. There is a risk that we will under-price our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings, or unexpected risks we encounter in connection with the performance of this work, including those caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margin. 12 We could be subject to liabilities if our subcontractors or the third parties with whom we partner cannot deliver their project contributions on time or at all. Large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver and implement our solutions in a timely manner depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to meet their project obligations in a timely manner, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. The quality of our services and solutions could suffer if our subcontractors or the third parties with whom we partner do not deliver their products and services in accordance with project requirements. If our subcontractors or these third parties fail to deliver their contributions on time or at all or if their contributions do not meet project requirements or require us to incur unanticipated costs to meet these requirements, then our ability to perform could be adversely affected and we might be subject to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profitability, or cash flow. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to control our costs. Our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency affects our profitability. As the continuation of pricing pressures could result in permanent changes in pricing policies and delivery capabilities, we must continuously improve our management of costs. Our short-term cost reduction initiatives, which focus primarily on reducing variable costs, might not be sufficient to deal with all pressures on our pricing. Our long-term cost-reduction initiatives, which focus on reductions in costs for service delivery and infrastructure, rely upon our successful introduction and coordination of multiple geographic and competency workforces and a growing focus on our offshore capabilities. As we increase the number of our professionals and execute our strategies for growth, we might not be able to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces, control our costs or improve our efficiency, and our profitability could be negatively affected. We are subject to credit risk related to our accounts receivable. We provide credit to our customers in the normal course of business and we do not generally obtain collateral or up-front payments. Accordingly, we are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by our customers. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for potential credit losses, such actions and procedures may not be effective in reducing our credit risks and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. During periods of economic decline, our exposure to credit risks related to our accounts receivable increases. The loss of one or more of our significant software vendors would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business relationships with software vendors enable us to reduce our cost of sales and increase win rates through leveraging our vendors’ marketing efforts and strong vendor endorsements. The loss of one or more of these relationships and endorsements could increase our sales and marketing costs, lead to longer sales cycles, harm our reputation and brand recognition, reduce our revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not effectively manage expected future growth, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our ability to operate profitably with positive cash flows depends partially on how effectively we manage our expected future growth. In order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate an increase in demand for our services, we may need to implement new or upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, open new offices, and hire additional colleagues. Implementation of these new or upgraded systems, procedures and controls may require substantial management efforts and our efforts to do so may not be successful. The opening of new offices (including international locations) or the hiring of additional colleagues may result in idle or underutilized capacity. We continually assess the expected capacity and utilization of our offices and professionals. We may not be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our offices and professionals. If demand for our services does not meet our expectations, our revenues and cash flows may not be sufficient to offset these expenses and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may be volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have varied in the past and could vary in the future, which could lead to volatility in our stock price. In addition, many factors affecting our operating results are outside of our control, such as: · demand for software and services; · customer budget cycles; · changes in our customers' desire for our partners' products and our services; · pricing changes in our industry; and · government regulation and legal developments regarding the use of the Internet. 13 As a result, if we experience unanticipated changes in the number or nature of our projects or in our employee utilization rates, we could experience large variations in quarterly operating results. Our services revenues may fluctuate quarterly due to seasonality or timing of completion of projects. We may experience seasonal fluctuations in our services revenues. We expect that services revenues in the fourth quarter of a given year may typically be lower as there are fewer billable days as a result of vacations and holidays. In addition, we generally perform services on a project basis. While we seek to counterbalance periodic declines in services revenues when a project or engagement is completed or canceled by entering into arrangements to provide additional services to the same or other clients, we may not be able to avoid declines in services revenues when projects are completed. Our inability to obtain sufficient new projects to counterbalance any decreases in work may materially affect our quarter-to-quarter revenues, margins and operating results. Our software revenues may fluctuate quarterly, leading to volatility in our results of operations. Our software revenues may fluctuate quarterly and be higher in the fourth quarter of a given year as procurement policies of our clients may result in higher technology spending towards the end of budget cycles. This seasonal trend may materially affect our quarter-to-quarter revenues, margins and operating results. Our services gross margins are subject to fluctuations as a result of variances in utilization and billing rates. Our services gross margins are affected by trends in the utilization rate of our professionals, defined as the percentage of our professionals' time billed to customers divided by the total available hours in a period, and in the billing rates we charge our clients. Our operating expenses, including salary, rent and administrative expenses, are relatively fixed and cannot be reduced on short notice to compensate for unanticipated variations in the number or size of projects in process. If a project ends earlier than scheduled, we may need to redeploy our project personnel. Any resulting non-billable time may adversely affect our gross margins. The average billing rates for our services may decline due to rate pressures from significant customers and other market factors, including innovations and average billing rates charged by our competitors. If there is a sustained downturn in the U.S. economy or in the information technology services industry, rate pressure may increase. Also, our average billing rates will decline if we acquire companies with lower average billing rates than ours. To sell our products and services at higher prices, we must continue to develop and introduce new services and products that incorporate new technologies or high-performance features. If we experience pricing pressures or fail to develop new services, our revenues and gross margins could decline, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to complete fixed fee contracts within budget and on time, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In 2009, approximately 11% of our services revenues were earned from engagements performed on a fixed fee basis, rather than on a time and materials basis. Under these contractual arrangements, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays, wage inflation and other cost increases. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required to complete a project or fail to complete our contractual obligations within the scheduled timeframe, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that we will price these contracts appropriately in the future, which may result in losses. We may not be able to maintain profitability. Although we have been profitable for the past six years, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future and in fact could experience decreased profitability. If we fail to meet public market analysts' and investors' expectations, the price of our common stock will likely fall. Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions could divert management's attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. If we pursue any acquisition, our management could spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to pursue and integrate the acquired business with our existing business. To pay for an acquisition, we might use capital stock, cash or a combination of both. Alternatively, we may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity may be reduced and the interest on any debt financing could adversely affect our results of operations. From an accounting perspective, an acquisition that does not perform as well as originally anticipated may involve amortization or the impairment of significant amounts of intangible assets that could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, and completion of due diligence with respect to these efforts, an acquisition may not produce the anticipated revenues, earnings or business synergies for a variety of reasons, including: · difficulties in the integration of services and personnel of the acquired business; · the failure of management and acquired services personnel to perform as expected; · the acquisition of fixed fee customer agreements that require more effort than anticipated to complete; · the risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience, including offshore operations in countries in which we have no prior experience; · the failure to identify or adequately assess any undisclosed or potential liabilities or problems of the acquired business including legal liabilities; · the failure of the acquired business to achieve the forecasts we used to determine the purchase price; or · the potential loss of key personnel of the acquired business. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and colleagues, increase our expenses and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may have difficulty in identifying and competing for strategic acquisition and vendor opportunities. We may acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic alliances with third parties in the future in order to expand our business. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition and vendor opportunities, or if we do identify a suitable opportunity, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially favorable to us, or at all. We have historically paid a portion of the purchase price for acquisitions with shares of our common stock. Volatility in our stock prices, or a sustained price decline, could adversely affect our ability to attract acquisition opportunities. If we fail to identify and successfully complete these transactions, our competitive position and our growth prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, we may face competition from other companies with significantly greater resources for acquisition candidates, making it more difficult for us to acquire suitable companies on favorable terms. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely. Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “PRFT.” Our common stock price has been volatile. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of announcements of new services and products by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, the gain or loss of significant customers, and changes in public market analysts' estimates and market conditions for information technology consulting firms and other technology stocks in general. We periodically review and consider possible acquisitions of companies that we believe will contribute to our long-term objectives. In addition, depending on market conditions, liquidity requirements and other factors, from time to time we consider accessing the capital markets. These events may also affect the market price of our common stock. Declines in our stock price and/or operating performance could result in a future impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. We assess potential impairments to goodwill annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We also assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. General economic conditions in the U.S. can adversely impact the trading prices of securities of many companies, including ours, due to concerns regarding recessionary economic conditions, a lending and financial crisis, a substantial slowdown in economic activity, decreased consumer confidence and other factors. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to these factors. If the trading price of our common stock were to be adversely affected due to worsening general economic conditions, significant changes in our financial performance or other factors, these events could result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our goodwill or long-lived assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet. 15 Our officers, directors, and 5% and greater stockholders own a large percentage of our voting securities and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and 5% and greater stockholders beneficially own or control approximately 26% of the voting power of our common stock. This concentration of voting power of our common stock may make it difficult for our other stockholders to successfully approve or defeat matters that may be submitted for action by our stockholders. It may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. The raising of any additional capital may dilute your ownership percentage in our stock. We had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaling $28 million and a borrowing capacity of $50 million at December 31, 2009. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds if our capital is insufficient to pursue business opportunities and respond to business challenges. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. It may be difficult for another company to acquire us, and this could depress our stock price. In addition to the large percentage of our voting securities held by our officers, directors and 5% and greater stockholders, provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock. In addition, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law also restrict some business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow the Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this annual report that are not purely historical statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Those statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The “forward-looking” information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. In some cases, you can identify these so-called forward-looking statements by words like “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of those words and other comparable words. You should be aware that those statements only reflect our predictions. Actual events or results may differ substantially. Important factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the forward-looking statements are disclosed under the heading “Risk Factors” in this annual report. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report to conform such statements to actual results. All forward-looking statements, express or implied, included in this report and the documents we incorporate by reference and attributable to Perficient, Inc. are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. This cautionary statement should also be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that Perficient, Inc. or any persons acting on our behalf may issue. 