ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to other factors and matters discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that Puget Energy and PSE may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial also may impair PSE’s business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, Puget Energy’s and PSE’s business, results of operations and financial conditions would suffer. RISKS RELATING TO THE UTILITY BUSINESS The actions of regulators can significantly affect PSE’s earnings, liquidity and business activities. The rates that PSE is allowed to charge for its services is the single most important item influencing its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE is highly regulated and the rates that it charges its wholesale and retail customers are determined by both the Washington Commission and FERC. PSE is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Washington Commission with respect to accounting, operations, the issuance of securities and certain other matters, and the regulatory authority of FERC with respect to the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting and certain other matters. Policies and regulatory actions by these regulators could have a material impact on PSE’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PSE’s recovery of costs is subject to regulatory review and its operating income may be adversely affected if its costs are disallowed. The Washington Commission determines the rates PSE may charge to its electric retail customers based in part on historic test year costs plus weather normalized assumptions about rate year hydro conditions and power costs. Non-energy costs for natural gas retail customers are based on historic test year costs. If in a specific year PSE’s costs are higher than what is allowed to be recovered in rates, revenues may not be sufficient to permit PSE to earn its allowed return or to cover its costs. In addition, the Washington Commission decides what level of expense and investment is reasonable and prudent in providing electric and natural gas service. If the Washington Commission decides that part of PSE’s costs do not meet the standard, those costs may be disallowed partially or entirely and not recovered in rates. For these reasons, the rates authorized by the Washington Commission may not be sufficient to earn the allowed return or recover the costs incurred by PSE in a given period. The PCA mechanism by which variations in PSE’s power costs are apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to a graduated scale, could result in significant increases in PSE’s expenses if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate. PSE has a PCA mechanism that provides for recovery of power costs from customers or refunding of power cost savings to customers, as those costs vary from the “power cost baseline” level of power costs which are set, in part, based on normalized assumptions about weather and hydro conditions. Excess power costs or power cost savings will be apportioned between PSE and its customers pursuant to the graduated scale set forth in the PCA mechanism. As a result, if power costs are significantly higher than the baseline rate, PSE’s expenses could significantly increase. PSE may be unable to acquire energy supply resources to meet projected customer needs or may fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions. PSE projects that future energy needs will exceed current purchased and Company-controlled power resources. As part of PSE’s business strategy, it plans to acquire additional electric generation and delivery infrastructure to meet customer needs. If PSE cannot acquire further additional energy supply resources at a reasonable cost, it may be required to purchase additional power in the open market at a cost that could significantly increase its expenses and reduce earnings and cash flows. Additionally, PSE may not be able to timely recover some or all of those increased expenses through ratemaking. While PSE expects to identify the benefits of new energy supply resources prior to their acquisition and integration, it may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such energy supply sources. PSE’s cash flow and earnings could be adversely affected by potential high prices and volatile markets for purchased power, increased customer demand for energy, recurrence of low availability of hydroelectric resources, outages of its generating facilities or a failure to deliver on the part of its suppliers. The utility business involves many operating risks. If PSE’s operating expenses, including the cost of purchased power and natural gas, significantly exceed the levels recovered from retail customers, its cash flow and earnings would be negatively affected. Factors which could cause purchased power and natural gas costs to be higher than anticipated include, but are not limited to, high prices in western wholesale markets during periods when PSE has insufficient energy resources to meet its load requirements and/or high volumes of energy purchased in wholesale markets at prices above the amount recovered in retail rates due to: · Increases in demand due, for example, either to weather or customer growth; · Below normal energy generated by PSE-owned hydroelectric resources due to low streamflow conditions or precipitation; · Extended outages of any of PSE-owned generating facilities or the transmission lines that deliver energy to load centers; · Failure to perform on the part of any party from which PSE purchases capacity or energy; and · The effects of large-scale natural disasters, such as the hurricanes recently experienced in the southern United States. PSE’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. PSE owns and operates coal, natural gas-fired, hydro, wind-powered and oil-fired generating facilities. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks that can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are: · Increased prices for fuel and fuel transportation as existing contracts expire; · Facility shutdowns due to a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply; · Disruptions in the delivery of fuel and lack of adequate inventories; · Labor disputes; · Inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; · Disruptions in the delivery of electricity; · Operator error; · Terrorist attacks; and · Catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. PSE is subject to the commodity price, delivery and credit risks associated with the energy markets. In connection with matching loads and resources, PSE engages in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity and energy, and, accordingly, is subject to commodity price risk, delivery risk, credit risk and other risks associated with these activities. Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties owing PSE money or energy will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, PSE may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, PSE’s financial results could be adversely affected. Although PSE takes into account the expected probability of default by counterparties, the actual exposure to a default by a particular counterparty could be greater than predicted. To lower its financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, PSE may use forward delivery agreements, swaps and option contracts to hedge commodity price risk with a diverse group of counterparties. However, PSE does not always cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent PSE has unhedged positions or its hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could adversely impact its results of operations. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. PSE is in the process of implementing the federal licensing requirements for the Snoqualmie Falls hydroelectric project and the Baker River hydroelectric project. The implementation of federal licensing requirements is an ongoing political and public regulatory process that involves sensitive resource issues. PSE cannot predict with certainty the conditions that may be imposed during the implementation process, or the economic impact of those requirements, or whether PSE will be able to meet all of these requirements or will need to seek modifications or amendments of the license. Costs of compliance with environmental, climate change and endangered species laws are significant and the cost of compliance with new and emerging laws and regulations and the incurrence of associated liabilities could adversely affect PSE’s results of operations. PSE’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, climate change and endangered species protection. To comply with these legal requirements, PSE must spend significant sums on measures including resource planning, remediation, monitoring, pollution control equipment and emissions related abatement and fees. New environmental, climate change and endangered species laws and regulations affecting PSE’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to PSE or its facilities which may substantially increase environmental, climate change and endangered species expenditures made by PSE in the future. Compliance with these or other future regulations could require significant capital expenditures by PSE and adversely affect PSE’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, PSE may not be able to recover all of its costs for such expenditures through electric and natural gas rates at current levels in the future. With respect to endangered species laws, the listing or proposed listing of several species of salmon in the Pacific Northwest is causing a number of changes to the operations of hydroelectric generating facilities on Pacific Northwest rivers, including the Columbia River. These changes could reduce the amount, and increase the cost, of power generated by hydroelectric plants owned by PSE or in which PSE has an interest and increase the cost of the permitting process for these facilities. Under current law, PSE is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that it currently owns or operates or has previously owned or operated. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or the new regulations governing such liability could result in substantial future costs and have a material adverse effect on PSE’s results of operations and financial condition. Specific to climate change, Washington State has adopted both a renewable portfolio standard and greenhouse gas legislation, including an emission performance standard provision. Recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions related to climate change have also drawn greater attention to this issue at the federal, state and local level. PSE cannot yet determine the costs of compliance with the recently enacted legislation. PSE’s business is dependent on its ability to successfully access capital. PSE relies on access to bank borrowings and short-term money markets as sources of liquidity and longer-term debt markets to fund its utility construction program and other capital expenditure requirements not satisfied by cash flow from its operations or equity investment from its parent, Puget Energy. If PSE is unable to access capital on reasonable terms, its ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions, including generating capacity, which may be relied on for future growth and to otherwise implement its strategy, could be adversely affected. Capital and credit market disruptions or a downgrade of PSE’s credit rating may increase PSE’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. A downgrade in the Company’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital and the ability to hedge in wholesale markets. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investor Services rate PSE’s senior secured debt at “A-” with a stable outlook and “Baa2” with a stable outlook, respectively. Although the Company is not aware of any current plans of S&P or Moody’s to lower their respective ratings on PSE’s debt, the Company cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not be downgraded. Although neither Puget Energy nor PSE has any rating downgrade provisions in its credit facilities that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt, a downgrade in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to renew existing or obtain access to new credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities. For example, under Puget Energy’s and PSE’s facilities, the borrowing spreads over LIBOR and commitment fees increase if their respective corporate credit ratings decline. A downgrade in commercial paper ratings could increase the cost of commercial paper and limit or preclude PSE’s ability to issue commercial paper under its current programs. Any downgrade below investment grade of PSE’s senior secured debt could cause counterparties in the wholesale electric, wholesale natural gas and financial derivative markets to require PSE to post a letter of credit or other collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other mutually agreeable security, all of which would expose PSE to additional costs. The Company’s operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. PSE’s business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on its revenues, expenses and operating results. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, demand depends heavily on weather patterns in PSE’s service territory, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season. However, the recent increase in the price of natural gas as well as conservation efforts may result in decreased customer demand, despite normal or lower than normal temperatures. Demand for electricity is also greater in the winter months associated with heating. Accordingly, PSE’s operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter. In the event that the Company experiences unusually mild winters, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company may be adversely affected by legal proceedings arising out of the electricity supply situation in the western power markets, which could result in refunds or other liabilities. The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings and complaints with respect to power markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in western power markets in 2000 and 2001, which allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices and allegedly may have been the result of manipulations by certain other parties. These proceedings include, but are not limited to, refund proceedings and hearings in California and the Pacific Northwest and complaints and cross-complaints filed by various parties with respect to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. Litigation is subject to numerous uncertainties and PSE is unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The Company may be negatively affected by its inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees. The Company’s ability to implement a workforce succession plan is dependent upon the Company’s ability to employ and retain skilled professional and technical workers in an aging workforce. Without a skilled workforce, the Company’s ability to provide quality service to PSE’s customers and meet regulatory requirements will be challenged and could affect earnings. The Company may be adversely affected by extreme events in which the Company is not able to promptly respond and repair the electric and gas infrastructure system. The Company must maintain an emergency planning and training program to allow the Company to quickly respond to extreme events. Without emergency planning, the Company is subject to availability of outside contractors during an extreme event which may impact the quality of service provided to PSE’s customers. In addition, a slow response to extreme events may have an adverse affect on earnings as customers may be without electricity and natural gas for an extended period of time. The Company may be negatively affected by unfavorable changes in the tax laws or their interpretation. Changes in tax law, related regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdiction could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The tax law, related regulations and case law are inherently complex. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority in examination, upon appeal or through litigation. The Company’s tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities. Poor performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs could unfavorably impact the Company’s cash flows and liquidity. PSE provides a defined benefit pension plan to PSE employees and postretirement benefits to certain PSE employees and former employees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plan’s assets and therefore, continued adverse market performance could result in lower rates of return for the investments that fund the Company’s pension and postretirement benefits plans and could increase the Company’s funding requirements related to the pension plans. Any contributions to PSE’s plans in 2009 and beyond and the timing of the recovery of such contributions in general rate cases could impact the Company’s cash flow and liquidity. The Company depends on an aging work force and third party vendors to perform certain important services. The Company continues to be concerned about the availability and aging of skilled workers for special complex utility functions. The Company also hires third parties to perform a variety of normal business functions, such as data warehousing and management, electric transmission, electric and gas distribution construction and maintenance, and certain billing and metering processes. The unavailability of skilled workers or unavailability of such vendors could adversely affect the quality and cost of the Company’s gas and electric service, and accordingly, the Company’s results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO PUGET ENERGY’S CORPORATE STRUCTURE As a holding company, Puget Energy depends on PSE’s ability to pay dividends. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, the primary source of funds for the repayment of debt and other expenses, as well as payment of dividends to its shareholder, is cash dividends PSE pays to Puget Energy. PSE is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to pay any amounts to Puget Energy, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of PSE to pay dividends or make distributions to Puget Energy, and accordingly, Puget Energy’s ability to pay dividends or repay debt or other expenses, will depend on its earnings, capital requirements and general financial condition. If Puget Energy does not receive adequate distributions from PSE, it may not be able to meet its obligations or pay dividends. The payment of dividends by PSE to Puget Energy is restricted by provisions of certain covenants applicable to long-term debt contained in the Mortgage Indentures. In addition, beginning February 6, 2009, as approved in the Washington Commission merger order, PSE dividends may not be declared or paid if its common equity ratio is 44.0% or below except to the extent a lower equity ratio is ordered by the Washington Commission. In addition, pursuant to the merger order, PSE cannot declare or make any distribution on the date of distribution if either: (a) the ratio of PSE’s Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) to PSE interest for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter periods prior to such date is equal or greater than three to one; or (b) PSE’s corporate credit/issuer rating is at least BBB- with Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 with Moody’s. Puget Energy’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholder is also limited by the merger order, beginning February 6, 2009. Pursuant to the merger order, Puget Energy may not declare or make a distribution unless on such date Puget Energy’s ration of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter periods prior to such date is equal or greater than two to one. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 