Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial results are subject to a number of risks. The factors discussed below highlight risks that management believes are most relevant to the Company’s current operations. This list does not capture all risks associated with the Company’s business. Additional risks, including those that generally affect the banking and financial services industries and those that management currently believes are immaterial may also negatively impact the Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. We plan to continue to grow rapidly and there are risks associated with rapid growth. Over the past five years we have experienced significant growth in net income, assets, loans and deposits, all of which have been achieved through organic growth. We intend to continue to rapidly expand our business and operations. Subject to regulatory approvals, we are targeting to open 30 new stores over the next six years. The cost to construct and furnish a new store will be approximately $1.7 million, excluding the cost to lease or purchase the land on which the store is located. In addition, we are currently constructing a new headquarters, operations and training center in Harrisburg, which we will open at the end of March 2006. The total anticipated cost to construct and furnish our new headquarters, operations and training center in Harrisburg will be approximately $19.0 million. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and competition. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are dependent on Commerce Bancorp, Inc. (“Bancorp”). Pursuant to the Network Agreement between us, the Bank, and Bancorp, which was last amended in September 2004, we have the right to use the "Commerce Bank" name and the "America's Most Convenient Bank" logo, among others, within the territory prescribed by the Network Agreement (the Pennsylvania counties of Adams, Berks, Bradford, Carbon, Centre, Clinton, Columbia, Cumberland, Dauphin, Franklin, Fulton, Huntingdon, Juniata, Lackawanna, Lancaster, Lebanon, Luzerne, Lycoming, Mifflin, Monroe, Montour, Northumberland, Perry, Pike, Potter, Schuylkill, Snyder, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Tioga, Union, Wayne, Wyoming, and York). As of December 31, 2005, Bancorp owned approximately 11.1% of our common stock, 100% of our Series A preferred stock, warrants that entitle Commerce of New Jersey to purchase 143,666 shares (adjusted for common stock dividends) of our common stock only upon our "change of control" (as defined in "Description of Our Capital Stock - Warrants") and 100% of our Trust Capital Securities. Under the Network Agreement, Bancorp, through its subsidiary, Commerce Bank, N.A., a national bank located in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, provides various services to the Bank including: maintaining the computer wide area network; proof and encoding services; deposit and loan account statement rendering; data processing; and advertising support. The Bank may only use these services in the territory prescribed by the Network Agreement. This restriction limits our growth to these areas as long as we are a party to the Network Agreement. 8 Bancorp can terminate the Network Agreement upon 360 days prior notice (a) on a fifth anniversary date of the Network Agreement (the next fifth anniversary date is January 1, 2010); (b) upon our change of control; or (c) upon the occurrence of specified events. If the Network Agreement is terminated, we will no longer be able to continue to operate under the Commerce name or logos. In addition, if the Network Agreement is terminated, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain or provide these services at similar cost, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any material adverse change to the business, results of operations and financial condition of Bancorp could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any acquisition of Bancorp or similar transaction could have an adverse effect on us. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income and cash flows. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, referred to as "FRB." If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws or any applicable accounting principles may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and shareholders. 9 "Anti-takeover" provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, our articles of incorporation provide that our board of directors may issue up to 960,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, subject to the rights of the outstanding preferred shares. In addition, "anti-takeover" provisions of our articles of incorporation, federal and state laws, and Pennsylvania law may restrict a third party's ability to obtain control of Pennsylvania Commerce and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental agency and, therefore, investment in it involves risk. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank, and is not insured by the FDIC, or any other governmental agency, and is subject to investment risk, including possible loss. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ National Market. Prior to October 13, 2004, our common stock was traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the average daily trading volume for our common stock was approximately 7,000 shares. The sale of a large number of these shares could adversely affect our stock price and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. Sales of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. As of December 31, 2005, there were 6,013,859 shares of our common stock outstanding. Most of these shares are available for resale in the public market without restriction, except for shares held by our affiliates. Generally, our affiliates may either sell their shares under a registration statement or in compliance with the volume limitations and other requirements imposed by Rule 144 adopted by the SEC. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had the authority to issue up to approximately 125,134 shares of our common stock under our stock option plans and 390,000 shares under our Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Additionally, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 287,332 shares of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and other five percent or greater shareholders own a large percentage of our company, and could influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers and directors owned and had the right to vote approximately 27.25% of our outstanding stock and other five percent or greater shareholders owned and had the right to vote approximately 19.85% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders, acting together, would be able to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Pennsylvania Commerce. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 