Item 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Certain Other Information This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The statements contained in this report, which are not historical facts, may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial or business performance, and are identified by terminology such as “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “scheduled,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in these forward-looking statements. In particular, the risks and uncertainties include, among other things, those described below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) copies of which may be accessed through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Existing and prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance 16 on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or revise the information contained in this report, whether as a result of new information, future events or circumstances or otherwise. Risks Relating To Our Business We Have Incurred Losses And Expect Our Losses To Continue We have incurred significant losses since our inception and have experienced negative operating cash flow for each fiscal year since our formation. We expect to continue to incur significant losses throughout 2006 and there can be no assurance that we will achieve positive operating cash flow for any future financial periods. Failure to generate sufficient revenues, contain certain discretionary spending, achieve certain other business plan objectives or raise additional funds could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, including our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has noted in its report on our audited financial statements and related notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 that our sustained operating losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We intend to use our cash resources to finance our operating losses, capital expenditures, lease payments, and working capital requirements, and for other general corporate purposes. Our cash requirements and financial performance, including our ability to achieve and sustain profitability or become and remain cash flow positive, may vary based upon a number of factors, including: · our ability to raise sufficient additional capital; · if our business plans or projections change or prove to be inaccurate; · if we curtail and/or reorganize our operations, and/or sell all or a portion of our assets; · the development of the high-speed data and integrated voice and data communications industries and our ability to compete effectively in such industries; · the amount, timing and pricing of customer revenue; · the availability, timing and pricing of acquisition opportunities, and our ability to capitalize on such opportunities; · the identification of and generation of synergies with potential business combination candidates, and our ability to close any transactions with such parties on favorable terms, if at all; · the commercial acceptance of our services and our ability to attain expected penetration within our target markets; · our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; · up front sales and marketing expenses; 17 · the cost and utilization of our network components that we lease from other telecommunications providers and that hinge, in substantial part, on government regulation that has been subject to considerable flux in recent years; · our ability to establish and maintain relationships with marketing partners; · the successful implementation and management of financial, information management and operations support systems to efficiently and cost-effectively manage our operations and growth; and · the favorable outcomes of numerous federal and state regulatory proceedings and related judicial proceedings, including proceedings relating to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended (the “1996 Telecommunications Act”). There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our business plan objectives or that we will achieve cash flow positive operating results. If we are unable to generate adequate funds from our operations or raise additional funds, we may not be able to repay our existing senior secured debt, continue to operate our network, respond to competitive pressures or fund our operations. As a result, we may be required to sell all or a portion of our assets, significantly reduce, reorganize, discontinue or shut down our operations, or seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the above uncertainties. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Has Raised Questions About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern In Their Report On Our Audited Financial Statements, Which May Have An Adverse Impact On Our Ability To Raise Additional Capital And On Our Stock Price Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern. This explanatory paragraph includes the following language: “The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations that raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.” The inclusion of this explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital and on our stock price. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue as a going concern. We Have Incurred, And May Incur Additional, Significant Amounts Of Debt To Implement Our Business Plan And This Indebtedness Creates Greater Financial And Operating Risk And Limits Our Flexibility In connection with our convertible note and warrant financing, on October 7, 2004, we issued a minimum borrowing note for $4,250,000 and a revolving note for $750,000. In addition, as a result of a series of transactions which closed on November 2, 2005 and February 1, 2006, we consummated the private placement of senior secured debentures in aggregate principal 18 amount of $13,000,000. Those notes and debentures contain provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and place other restrictions on our business. We are pursuing additional financing, which may include additional debt financing, the terms of which may create greater financial and/or operating risk and/or limit our ability to take certain actions. If we incur additional debt, we may be required to devote increased amounts of our cash flow to service indebtedness. Our incurrence of additional debt, and/or our inability to repay or finance any existing or future senior secured debt, could require us to modify, delay or abandon certain aspects of our business plan, or require us to sell or a portion of our assets, significantly reduce, reorganize, discontinue or shut down our operations, or seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. We Must Obtain The Prior Approval Of DunKnight Telecom Partners LLC To Effect Certain Expenditures Pursuant to our $13,000,000 aggregate principal amount secured debentures issued to DunKnight Telecom Partners LLC (“DunKnight”) and its designated co-investor on November 2, 2005 and February 1, 2006, we are prevented from entering into any agreement, contract or understanding with any third party, whether for the receipt or provision of goods or services, requiring the expenditure by us of more than $150,000 in any one or a series of related transactions without obtaining the prior written consent of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of all such debentures. Such prior approval is in the sole discretion of such debenture holders, and, therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully implement those aspects of our business plan for which debenture holder approval is required but not obtained. A failure to obtain such approval for any given item or series of items may delay, curtail, prevent or render more costly our achievement of certain business plan objectives and operational initiatives. Additional Financing Will Be Required If We Are To Sustain Our Operations, Repay All Of Our Senior Secured Debt Or Achieve Our Strategic and Operating Objectives Based on our current business plans and projections, we believe that our existing cash resources and cash expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating losses, capital expenditures, lease payments, and working capital requirements through the second quarter of 2006. As a result, we will need to raise additional financing, through some combination of borrowings or the sale of equity or debt securities, during the second quarter of 2006 to finance our 2006 cash requirements and to enable us to repay all of our existing senior secured debt. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional debt, equity or other capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to generate sufficient revenues, contain certain discretionary spending, achieve certain other business plan objectives, refinance our senior secured debt or raise additional funds could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, including our ability to continue as a going concern, and may require us to sell all or a portion of our assets, significantly reduce, reorganize, discontinue or shut down our operations, or seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. Because The High-Speed Data And Integrated Voice And Data Communications Industries Continue to Rapidly Evolve, We Cannot Predict Their Future Growth Or Ultimate Size The high-speed data and integrated voice and data communications industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Because the technologies available for high-speed data and integrated voice and data communications services are rapidly evolving, we cannot accurately predict the rate at which the market for our services will grow, if at all, or whether emerging technologies will render our services less competitive or obsolete. If the market for our 19 services fails to develop or grows more slowly than anticipated, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many providers of high-speed data and integrated voice and data communication services are testing products from numerous suppliers for various applications. Our Business Model Is Unproven, And May Not Be Successful We do not know whether our business model and strategy will be successful. If the assumptions underlying our business model are not valid or we are unable to implement our business plan, achieve acceptable levels of market penetration or obtain the desired level of pricing of our services for sustained periods, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have adopted a different strategy than certain other Internet service providers and broadband providers. We focus on selling directly, and through resellers, to small and medium sized businesses and branch offices of larger businesses and their remote office users. Our unproven business model makes it difficult to predict the extent to which our services will achieve market acceptance. It is possible that our efforts will not result in significant market penetration, favorable operating results or profitability. If Our Services Fail To Achieve Or Sustain Market Acceptance At Desired Pricing Levels, Our Ability To Achieve Profitability Or Positive Cash Flow Would Be Impaired Prices for digital communication services have fallen historically. Accordingly, we cannot predict to what extent we may need to reduce our prices to remain competitive or whether we will be able to sustain future pricing levels as our competitors introduce competing services or similar services at lower prices. If our services fail to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels, our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow would be impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We May Be Subject To Risks Associated With Strategic Opportunities We may not be able to compete successfully for strategic opportunities, including merger and acquisition, business combination and strategic partnering opportunities. We may not have the capital resources available to make strategic acquisitions that would accelerate our growth or expand our services and, if we complete further acquisitions, we may not have sufficient working capital to operate the acquired assets or businesses profitably. We have made a number of strategic asset and business acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek strategic opportunities that we believe represent distinct market opportunities to accelerate our growth. We continuously identify and evaluate strategic opportunities, including strategic partnerships, business combinations, and merger and acquisition candidates, and in many cases engage in discussions and negotiations regarding potential transactions. Our discussions and negotiations may not result in any transaction. There is significant competition for strategic opportunities in our business. As the consolidation in our industry continues, this competition may intensify and increase the costs of capitalizing on such opportunities. We compete for acquisition opportunities with companies that have significantly greater financial and management resources. Our ability to pursue a future customer acquisition or similar strategic acquisition for cash is dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital. Also, to the extent all or part of the purchase price of any future acquisition is paid in cash, such payment would deplete our remaining cash resources. In addition, an acquisition may not produce the revenue, earnings, cash flows or business synergies that we anticipate, an acquired asset or business might not perform as we anticipated, and a strategic transaction such as a merger might not yield positive operating results for the combined 20 businesses. Any such event may delay the time at which we expect to achieve profitability or positive cash flows. Further, if we pursue any future acquisition or other strategic opportunities, our management could spend a significant amount of time and effort in identifying and completing the transaction and may be distracted from the operation of our business. We will also have to devote a significant amount of management resources to integrating any acquired businesses, with our existing operations, and that may not be successful. We Need Additional Funding To Support Increased Sales And Marketing Initiatives And Customer Acquisitions In Order To Offset The Effects of Churn Like many of our competitors, we experience a degree of customer disconnects or “churn” due to competitive pricing pressures, customers’ ceasing their operations, and other factors, which churn was, during 2005, in excess of the rate that we acquired new customers. While we have taken measures to control churn, our ability to generate positive operating cash flow in future periods will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to obtain additional funding to increase our sales and customer acquisition activities to out-pace customer churn and absorb operating expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funding, increase our subscriber line base at a rate in excess of our churn or obtain positive operating cash flows in future periods. In the absence of our raising additional funding to finance increased sales and marketing activities and new customer acquisitions, our subscriber line churn may continue to exceed the rate at which we can replace such disconnected lines. As a result, we anticipate that our subscriber line churn in the near term will continue to result in declining revenue and will adversely affect our cash generated from operations. Our Management Team Is Critical And The Loss Of Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business We depend on a small number of executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team, to execute our business strategy and business plan, and to manage employees located in several locations across the United States. The loss of key managers or their failure to work effectively as a team could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot guarantee that our key employees will desire to continue their employment with DSL.net over any period of time and thus there is the risk that any or all of these individuals may seek employment opportunities with other employers at any time. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to attract highly-qualified employees, as we have in the past, to replace key personnel in the future. If We Fail To Retain Our Employees Or Recruit Qualified Personnel In A Timely Manner, We Will Not Be Able To Execute Our Business Plan And Our Business Will Be Harmed To execute our business plan, we need to hire and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain our employees or recruit qualified personnel in a timely manner, we will not be able to execute our business plan. The reductions in workforce that we have made since 2000, including the restructuring of our sales team and our work force reduction in September 2004, the competitive nature of our industry, and our need for additional working capital may make it difficult for us to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis and to retain our employees. Disappointing Quarterly Revenue, Operating Results Or Operating Statistics Could Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Fall Our quarterly revenue, operating results and operating statistics are difficult to predict and 21 may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly revenue, operating results or operating statistics fall below the expectations of investors or security analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and operating statistics may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: · the timing and success of acquisitions, if any; · the timing of the rollout of our services and any additional infrastructure, and the amount and timing of expenditures relating thereto; · regulatory and legal developments; · the rate at which we are able to attract customers and our ability to retain these customers at sufficient aggregate revenue levels; · the availability of financing; · technical difficulties or network service interruptions; and · the introduction of new services or technologies by our competitors and resulting pressures on the pricing of our services. The Failure Of Our Customers To Pay Their Bills On A Timely Basis Could Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow Our target customers consist mostly of small and medium sized businesses. We bill and collect numerous relatively small customer accounts. We may experience difficulty in collecting amounts due on a timely basis. In addition, we sell our services to various resellers, such as Internet service providers, who then resell such services to their end users. Our failure to collect accounts receivable owed to us by our customers on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flow. We Depend On Wholesale DSL And T-1 Providers, Some Of Whom Are Competitors, To Provide Us With Local Facilities In Areas Where We Have Not Deployed Our Own Equipment In markets where we have not deployed our own local DSL and T-1 equipment, we utilize local facilities from wholesale providers, including Covad Communications, in order to provide service to our end-user customers. In these cases, we are dependent upon these wholesale carriers to provide, or arrange the provisioning of, the equipment and on-site wiring required to provide local DSL or T-1 services to our end-user customers, as well as to provide and maintain the local DSL or T-1 line. In general, these carriers may terminate the service they provide to us with little or no notice. These carriers may not continue to provide us with acceptable local services for our customers on the scale, at the price levels and within the time frames we require, or at all. If we are unable to obtain acceptable services from these wholesale carriers or they terminate the services they provide us, we may be required to install our own equipment in a central office and provide and install new equipment for our customers, or arrange for another wholesale carrier to do so. Obtaining space and provisioning equipment in a new central office is a lengthy and costly process. We cannot assure you that we, or another carrier with whom we work, would be able to 22 obtain the space required in a central office on a cost effective basis, if at all, or that we could provide services to such customers on a timely basis. Our failure to install and provide services to customers on a timely basis, or the disruption in the services provided to our customers, would likely result in the loss of many, if not all, of the customers in the affected locations, and could result in claims brought by these customers against us. This could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations, financial position and prospects. Certain wholesale providers with whom we work offer services that compete with ours, or have other customers whose services compete with ours. Such competing interests may affect the ability or willingness of these providers to provide us with acceptable services on acceptable terms. In addition, certain of these providers are relatively young companies that are facing substantial operational and financial challenges. The operational success and abilities of these carriers to operate their businesses could materially affect our business. The failure of any of these companies could cause us to lose customers and revenue, expose us to claims and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations, financial position and prospects. Our Services Are Subject To Federal, State And Local Regulation, And Changes In Laws Or Regulations Could Adversely Affect The Way We Operate Our Business The facilities we use and the services we offer are subject to varying degrees of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Changes in applicable laws or regulations could, among other things, increase our costs, restrict our access to the network elements and central offices of the traditional local telephone companies, or restrict our ability to provide our services. For example, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which, among other things, requires traditional telephone companies to unbundle network elements (“UNE(s)”) and to allow competitors such as us to locate their equipment in the traditional local telephone companies’ central offices, has been the subject of proceedings at the federal and state levels, litigation in federal and state courts, and legislation in federal and state legislatures. We rely on access to the incumbents’ network, including DS-1 loops and DS-1 and DS-3 transport network elements purchased as UNEs, in order to provide service to our customers. In August 2003, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) released its Triennial Review Order (“TRO”) that, among other things, largely preserved our access to these UNEs at forward-looking or Total Element Long Run Incremental Cost (“TELRIC”) rates, which rates reflect the efficient cost of such elements to the traditional telephone companies, plus a reasonable profit. These rates are substantially lower than rates charged on network elements for which TELRIC rates do not apply. On February 4, 2005, the FCC issued its Triennial Review Remand Order (“TRRO”) that again modified the unbundling obligations for the DS-1 and DS-3 UNEs that we purchase from traditional telephone companies. The new rules, among other things, remove under certain circumstances the unbundling obligations of traditional telephone companies with regard to local loops and dedicated transport. The availability of loops and transport UNEs varies based upon the capacity of the loop and availability of competitive alternatives to the traditional telephone company at or between specific telephone company wire centers. Some of the loops and transport that we used were subject to the new rules. For those loops and transport that are affected, we were able to obtain them at 15% above regulated rates through March 10, 2006. After that date, we are able to purchase affected loops and transport from competitors or traditional telephone companies at market prices and/or regulated prices as special access. While we have taken significant steps to reconfigure our network to avoid or limit our utilization of network facilities affected by the TRRO, and have negotiated special rates for certain affected network facilities, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain increased network costs resulting from the TRRO or that 23 we will continue to be able to negotiate favorable rates for affected network facilities with traditional telephone companies and/or alternative providers. The TRRO has been appealed by both the traditional telephone companies and competitive carriers. We cannot anticipate the outcome of that appeal. We also cannot predict future legislation or FCC regulatory action or whether such actions will adversely affect the way we operate our business or our ability to continue to compete in the market place. At least one portion of the TRO relating to an exemption provided to traditional local telephone companies from unbundling obligations on certain loop transmission facilities that use fiber and new technologies could materially affect our business in the long-term. This exemption arguably applies only for loops that serve residential customers and “very small” businesses. The FCC has not defined “very small” business, and, if it does not do so in a rulemaking proceeding, the definition may be established in interconnection agreement arbitrations at the state commissions as interconnection agreements are renewed or renegotiated. Subsequent to the TRO, the FCC has on two occasions added additional loop architectures to this exemption, and it has also held that the traditional local telephone companies do not have to make these facilities available to competitors at any price, discounted or otherwise. The traditional local telephone companies are continuing to lobby the FCC to expand these exemptions much deeper into the business market, and alternatively at times appear to suggest that the exemption already applies to all markets. Depending on how these rules are implemented, the traditional local telephone companies over time may decide to modify, characterize or replace their facilities in ways that would qualify them for this exemption and thereby preclude us from accessing these facilities pursuant to the terms of their interconnection agreements. Without access to these facilities, we may not be able to provide all or certain of our services in these areas. In addition, if we are unable to obtain unbundled access to these fiber facilities, we may not be able to offer services that are competitive with the new offerings of the traditional local telephone companies. Our Success Depends On Negotiating And Entering Into Interconnection Agreements With Traditional Local Telephone Companies We must enter into and renew interconnection agreements with traditional local telephone companies in each market in which we deploy our own equipment. These agreements govern, among other things, the price and other terms regarding our location of equipment in the traditional local telephone companies’ offices, known as central offices, and our lease of copper telephone lines that connect those central offices to our customers. We have entered into agreements with AllTel, BellSouth, Cincinnati Bell, Frontier, SBC Communications, Qwest, Sprint and Verizon, or their subsidiaries, which govern our relationships in 49 states and the District of Columbia. Delays in obtaining or renewing interconnection agreements would delay our entrance into new markets or impact our operations in existing markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, disputes have arisen, and will likely arise in the future, regarding the interpretation of these interconnection agreements. These disputes have, in the past, delayed the deployment of our network. Our interconnection agreements generally have limited terms of one to two years and we cannot assure you that new agreements will be negotiated on a timely basis, if at all, or that existing agreements will be extended on terms favorable to us. Interconnection agreements must be approved by state regulators and are also subject to oversight by the FCC and the courts. These governmental authorities may modify the terms or prices of our interconnection agreements in ways that could adversely affect our ability to deliver service and our business and results of operations. 24 Failure To Negotiate Interconnection Agreements With The Traditional Local Telephone Companies Could Lead To Costly And Lengthy Arbitration Which May Not Be Resolved In Our Favor Under federal law, traditional local telephone companies have an obligation to negotiate with us in good faith for agreements for interconnection and access to certain individual elements of their networks that the FCC or a state utility commission has required them to provide to competitors such as us. In August 2003 and again in February 2005, the FCC adopted new unbundling rules for network elements that have not yet been fully implemented in all of our interconnection agreements. The FCC’s new rules have reduced the traditional local telephone companies’ obligations to provide us with certain network elements at unbundled element discount prices, including DS1 loops and DS1 and DS3 transport facilities in certain central offices. Consequently, our future interconnection agreements with traditional local telephone companies are likely to contain terms and conditions less favorable to us than those in our current agreements and could result in our incurring increased network operating costs. During our interconnection agreement negotiations, either the telephone company or we may submit disputes to the state regulatory commissions for mediation. Also, after the expiration of the statutory negotiation period set forth in the 1996 Telecommunications Act, we may submit outstanding disputes to the states for binding arbitration, in which the state regulatory commissions may arbitrate a new agreement or particular portions thereof. Arbitration is a costly and lengthy process that could delay our entry into markets and could harm our ability to compete. Interconnection agreements resulting from arbitration must be approved by state regulators. We cannot assure you that a state regulatory authority would resolve disputes in our favor. Our Success Depends On Traditional Local Telephone Companies Providing Acceptable Transmission Facilities And Copper Telephone Lines We interconnect with and use the networks of traditional local telephone companies to provide services to our customers in the markets where we have deployed our own equipment. In markets where we utilize the local facilities of other carriers to provide our service, those carriers must interconnect with and use the networks of traditional local telephone companies to provide this service. We cannot assure you that these networks will be able to meet the telecommunications needs of our customers or maintain our service standards. We also depend on the traditional local telephone companies to provide and maintain their transmission facilities and the copper telephone lines between our network and our customers’ premises. The FCC’s decision in 2003 to exempt the traditional local telephone companies from their obligation to provide access to certain loop transmission facilities that use fiber or new technologies to competitors such as us may motivate the traditional local telephone companies to modify, characterize or replace their facilities in ways that would qualify them for this exemption and thereby preclude us from accessing those facilities. Our dependence on traditional local telephone companies could cause delays in establishing our network and providing our services. Any such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. We, and the other competitive carriers with which we work, lease copper telephone lines running from the central office of the traditional local telephone companies to each customer’s location. In many cases, the copper telephone lines must be specially conditioned by the telephone company to carry digital signals. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of acceptable telephone lines on acceptable terms, if at all. Traditional telephone companies often rely on unionized labor and labor-related issues have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect the services provided by the traditional telephone companies. 25 We Compete With The Traditional Local Telephone Companies On Which We Depend Most of the traditional local telephone companies, including those created by AT&T’s divestiture of its local telephone service business, offer DSL-based services. In addition, these companies also currently offer high-speed data communications services that use other technologies, including T-1 services. Consequently, these companies have certain incentives to delay: · our entry into, and renewals of, interconnection agreements with them; · our access to their central offices to install our equipment and provide our services; · provisioning of acceptable transmission facilities and copper telephone lines on our behalf; and · our introduction and expansion of various services. Any such delays could negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan and harm our competitive position, business and prospects. In addition, the other carriers whose local facilities we utilize in markets where we have not deployed our own equipment also compete with the traditional local telephone companies and rely on these companies for the same facilities and services that we do. Any delay in the provision of acceptable transmission facilities and copper telephone lines provided by the traditional local telephone companies to these carriers which are used in the provision of our service could negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan and harm our competitive position, business and prospects. Competition from the traditional local telephone companies offering DSL, T-1 or other competitive high-speed data and integrated voice and data communications services in a specific market may adversely impact our ability to obtain customers in that area and harm our competitive position, business and prospects. These companies have established brand names and reputations for quality in their service areas, possess a large, existing customer base to whom they can market their various products and services, possess sufficient capital to deploy broadband equipment rapidly, have their own copper telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing voice services to achieve a competitive advantage in serving customers. In addition, we depend upon these traditional local telephone companies to provide us access to their central offices and to individual elements of their networks. As a result, they can significantly influence the actual and perceived reliability, quality and timeliness of our services in their service areas. The perceived relative stability of the traditional local telephone companies, particularly in light of the failure of certain competitive telephone companies and the financial and operational issues surrounding other such companies, provides the traditional local telephone companies a significant competitive advantage. We Depend On Long Distance Carriers To Connect Our Network Data is transmitted across our network via transmission facilities that we lease from long distance carriers, including Level 3 Communications and MCI. Failure of these carriers to provide service or to provide quality service may interrupt the use of our services by our 26 customers. The service provided by these carriers has been interrupted in the past, which has affected the services we provide to our customers. We cannot be sure that this service will not be interrupted in the future. Intense Competition In The High-Speed Data And Integrated Voice And Data Communication Services Market May Negatively Affect The Number Of Our Customers And The Pricing Of Our Services The high-speed data and integrated voice and data communication services market is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We expect the level of competition to intensify in the future, due, in part, to increasing consolidation in the data communications industry and increased competition in the integrated voice and data communications industry as technological advances are deployed by our competitors, both established and new market entrants, in this service area. Our competitors use various high speed communications technologies for local access connections such as integrated services digital network (“ISDN”), frame relay, T-1, DSL services and wireless, satellite-based and cable networks. We expect significant competition from: · Other providers of DSL and T-1 services, including Covad Communications and New Edge Networks; · Internet service providers, such as Speakeasy, EarthLink, Netifice and MegaPath, which offer high-speed access capabilities, as well as other related products and services; · Traditional local telephone companies, including the traditional local telephone companies created by AT&T’s divestiture of its local telephone service business, which deploy DSL and T-1 services and which provide other high-speed data communications services, including fiber loops that may offer greater capacity to end users than our services; · Competitive carriers offering their own integrated voice and data services, including InfoHighway Communications, Conversent Communications and Broadview Networks; · National long distance carriers, such as AT&T, Sprint, and Verizon Business, some of which are offering competitive DSL and T-1 services and other high-speed data communications services; · Cable modem service providers, such as Time-Warner Cable, Comcast and RCN, which are offering high-speed Internet access over cable networks; and · Providers utilizing alternative technologies, such as fiber optic, broadband over powerlines, wireless and satellite-based data service providers. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, management, service support and other resources than we do. Therefore, they may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. 27 Our Failure To Develop And Maintain Good Relationships With Marketing Partners In A Local Service Market Could Adversely Affect Our Ability To Obtain And Retain Customers In That Market In addition to marketing through our direct sales force, we rely on relationships with local marketing partners, such as integrators of computer systems and networks and lead referral sources. These partners recommend our services to their clients, provide us with referrals and help us build a local presence in each market. We may not be able to identify, and maintain good relationships with, quality marketing partners and we cannot assure you that they will recommend our services rather than our competitors’ services to their customers. Our failure to identify and maintain good relationships with quality marketing partners could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and retain customers in a market and, as a result, our business would suffer. Uncertain Tax And Other Surcharges On Our Services May Increase Our Payment Obligations To Federal And State Governments Telecommunications providers are subject to a variety of federal and state surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services. These surcharges and fees may be increased and other surcharges and fees not currently applicable to our services could be imposed on us. In either case, the cost of our services would increase and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A System Failure Could Delay Or Interrupt Service To Our Customers Our operations depend upon our ability to support a highly complex network infrastructure and avoid damage from fires, earthquakes, floods, power losses, excessive sustained or peak user demand, telecommunications failures, network software flaws, computer worms and viruses, transmission cable cuts and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated interruption of service at our owned or leased facilities could cause interruptions in our services. In addition, failure of a traditional telephone company, competitive telecommunications company or other service provider to provide communications capacity or other services that we require, as a result of a natural disaster or other unanticipated interruptions, operational disruption or any other reason, could cause interruptions in our services. Any damage or failure that causes sustained interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. A Breach Of Our Network Security Could Result In Liability To Us And Deter Customers From Using Our Services Our network may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any of the foregoing problems could result in liability to us and deter customers from using our service. Unauthorized access could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in the computer systems of our customers. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the problem, and divert management’s attention. We can provide no assurance that the security measures we have implemented will not be circumvented or that any failure of these measures will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and retain customers. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 28 Our Failure To Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Rights May Adversely Affect Our Business We rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position. Our inability to protect these secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants and business partners. These agreements may be breached or terminated. In addition, third parties, including our competitors, may assert infringement claims against us. Any of such claims could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, and require us to pay damages and/or to enter into license or similar agreements under which we could be required to pay license fees or royalties. We May Be Exposed To Liability For Information Carried Over Our Network Or Displayed On Web Sites That We Host Because we provide connections to the Internet and host web sites for our customers, we may be perceived as being associated with the content carried over our network or displayed on web sites that we host. We do not and cannot screen all of this content. As a result, we may face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the content carried over our network or displayed on web sites that we host. These types of claims have been brought against providers of online services in the past and can be costly to defend regardless of the merit of the lawsuit. The protection offered by recent federal legislation that protects online services from some claims when the material is written by third parties is limited. Further, the law in this area remains in flux and varies from state to state. We may also suffer a loss of customers or reputational harm based on this content or resulting from our involvement in these legal proceedings. Risks Relating To Ownership Of Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Could Fluctuate Widely In Response To Various Factors, Many Of Which Are Beyond Our Control The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price could fluctuate widely in response to factors such as the following: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or operating statistics or our financial condition; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · conditions or trends in the telecommunications industry, including regulatory or legislative developments; · growth of Internet and on-line commerce usage and the Internet and on-line commerce industries; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, dispositions, merger or business combination, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of our key personnel; 29 · future equity or debt financings by us or our announcements of such financings; and · general market and economic conditions. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for Internet, technology and telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced large price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Certain Investors Have Significant Influence Regarding Most Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval, And Certain Corporate and Operational Transactions, Which Could Prevent Us From Effecting Certain Transactions And/Or Have A Material Adverse Effect On The Market Price Of Our Common Stock As of March 1 2006, certain affiliated investment entities known generally as VantagePoint Venture Partners (“VantagePoint”) owned of record approximately 55.1 million shares of our outstanding common stock, which represented approximately 24% of the combined voting power of all issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company. This concentration of ownership by VantagePoint gives VantagePoint an increased ability over other stockholders to influence the outcome of any given matter submitted for a vote to our common stockholders. On November 2, 2005, DunKnight became a material investor in the Company, and gained Board representation, in connection with a secured debt investment in the Company. Due to certain restrictive provisions in the applicable investment documents, DunKnight has the ability to limit or prevent the Company from effecting certain significant corporate transactions and certain operational matters without their prior consent. Depending upon the circumstances, DunKnight’s failure to authorize a given matter over which it has blocking rights could prevent or limit our ability to achieve certain business plan objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If We Effect An Equity Or Convertible Debt Financing Transaction, It May Result In Dilution We are currently pursuing additional financing to fund our working capital requirements and growth initiatives, which may include a sale of equity and/or convertible debt securities to one or more purchasers. At our current market capitalization, any significant equity-based investment in the Company at a discount to market will in all likelihood be materially dilutive to our common stockholders. If Certain Transactions Occur, The Value That The Holders Of Our Common Stock May Receive Will Be Adversely Affected by Our Outstanding Debt Obligations If the Company enters into certain transactions, the value that the holders of our common stock may receive as a result of any such transaction will be adversely affected by the Company’s outstanding senior secured debt. As of March 1, 2006, the Company’s existing secured debt consisted of $13,000,000 in aggregate principal amount outstanding under our secured debentures to DunKnight (and its co-holder) which mature on September 4, 2006 and $4,073,268 in aggregate principal amount outstanding under our secured convertible minimum borrowing note to Laurus which matures on August 1, 2006. The Company is pursuing financing and strategic 30 opportunities in order to fund our operations, growth and business plan objectives and to refinance our senior secured debt obligations. As part of this process, the Company is also considering various strategic business combination, merger and acquisition opportunities. These activities may or may not result in a sale of the Company or some or all of its assets, whether through asset sale, merger or other business combination. There can be no assurance that a sale transaction, merger or liquidating distribution by the Company will result in any minimum value or minimum amount of proceeds accreting to the benefit of our common stockholders as a result of any such transaction, should one occur. Certain Provisions Of Our Charter, By-Laws And Delaware Law Could Make A Takeover Difficult Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a third-party takeover. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders, advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders, and the rights of certain significant holders of our capital stock to designate members of our Board of Directors. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by a third-party or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 