ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this Report before deciding to invest in our shares. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties about which we currently do not know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Numerous external forces, including the recent financial crisis, could negatively affect our and our partner companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Numerous external forces, including the state of global financial markets and general economic conditions, lack of consumer confidence, lack of availability of credit, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations and national and international political circumstances (including wars and terrorist acts) could negatively affect our and our partner companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The recent global financial crisis affecting the banking system, financial markets and financial institutions has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. The length of time or severity with which these conditions may persist is unknown. As a consequence, our and our partner companies’ respective operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of expected results in future periods. In response to the financial crisis, many customers and potential customers of our partner companies may forgo, delay or reduce technology and other purchases. In connection with such crisis, our partner companies may experience reductions in the sales of their products and services, extended sales cycles, difficulties in collecting or the inability to collect accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and difficulties in obtaining or the inability to obtain financing. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the value of our partner companies and our other assets will be impaired and that the value to be captured in the future in connection with the disposition of our partner companies will be significantly lower than we initially expected. If we are not able to deploy capital effectively and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our strategy includes effectively deploying capital by acquiring interests in new partner companies. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates that fit our strategy. Even if we are able to identify such candidates, we may not be able to acquire interests in such companies due to an inability to reach mutually acceptable financial or other terms with such companies or due to competition from other potential acquirers that may have greater resources, brand name recognition, industry contacts or flexibility of structure than us. The recent turmoil in the global economy has caused significant declines and fluctuations in the valuations of publicly-traded companies and privately-held companies. Uncertainty regarding the extent to which valuations of companies that fit our acquisition criteria will continue to fluctuate may affect our ability to accurately value potential acquisition candidates. Additionally, the recent economic crisis may make it more difficult for us to obtain capital needed to deploy to new and existing partner companies. If we are unable to effectively deploy capital to partner companies on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute on our strategy, and our business may be adversely impacted. If our partner companies are unable to attract new customers or retain customers, including certain significant customers, our and our partner companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions could be negatively affected. Our partner companies may not be able to attract or retain customers due to a variety of reasons, including increased competition, the unwillingness of customers and potential customers to spend money on products and services during periods of economic turmoil and uncertainty, insolvency and the unavailability of credit. If our partner companies are unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers, our and our partner companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions could be negatively affected. 9 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2008, The Hertz Corporation, a customer of ICG Commerce, represented approximately 17% of our consolidated revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 17% and 24%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue related to a second customer of ICG Commerce, Kimberly-Clark Corporation. For each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 10% of our consolidated revenue related to The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, a third customer of ICG Commerce. If our partner companies are not able to retain significant customers, such partner companies and our respective businesses, results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. The inability of our partner companies’ customers to pay their obligations to them in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our partner companies. The financial resources of our partner companies’ customers may be negatively affected by the current economic downturn. As a result, these customers may have inadequate financial resources to meet all their obligations to our partner companies and may not make payments in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, if our partner companies’ customers do not have adequate financial resources, they may attempt to terminate or renegotiate existing contracts with our partner companies and may refrain from purchasing additional products and services from our partner companies. These factors may cause our partner companies’ results of operations and financial condition to be adversely affected. Our partner companies may not be able to compete successfully. If our partner companies are unable to compete successfully against their competitors, our partner companies may fail. Competition for Internet software and services is intense and is expected to intensify. Our partner companies’ competitors may develop products or services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than, the solutions offered by our partner companies. Many of our partner companies’ competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than our partner companies. This may place our partner companies at a disadvantage in responding to their competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances, marketing campaigns, strategic partnerships and other initiatives. The Internet software and services industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new service and product introductions and enhancements. The development of new service and product introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources, and our partner companies may not be able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to these changes, and our partner companies’ failure to do so could adversely affect our partner companies’ businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We may compete with some of our partner companies, and our partner companies may compete with each other, which could deter companies from partnering with us and may limit future business opportunities. We may compete with our partner companies to acquire interests in new partner companies, and our partner companies may compete with each other for business opportunities. This competition may deter potential acquisition targets from partnering with us and may limit our business opportunities. Our operations and growth and that of our partner companies could be impaired by limitations on our and/or their ability to raise capital or borrow money on favorable terms. We and our partner companies may need to raise additional capital or borrow money in order to sustain operations or to grow. If we or our partner companies are unable to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, our ability and the ability of our partner companies to operate and grow may be impaired. This may require us or our partner companies to take other actions, such as borrowing money on terms that may be unfavorable, or divesting of assets prematurely to raise capital. If we or our partner companies need capital and are unable to raise it, then we or they may need to limit or cease operations. Adverse changes in economic conditions and reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our and our partner companies’ respective businesses depend on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for Internet software and services that improve the productivity of our customers’ businesses. In addition, the acquisition of our partner companies’ Internet software and services is often discretionary and may require customers to make significant initial contributions of capital and other resources. During the current global financial crisis, business spending on technology infrastructure decreased dramatically. Continued weak economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if general economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business and the businesses of our partner companies in a number of ways that negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Acquisitions by our partner companies could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. As part of their growth strategies, our partner companies have and may continue to strategically acquire other companies, business and technologies. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology involves numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired company or business and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although we and our partner companies will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition transaction, there can be no assurance that we or our partner companies will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses for our partner companies; they may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of a partner company’s equity securities. Accordingly, difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our or our partner companies’ businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to maintain or be able to increase our ownership stakes in high growth partner companies could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. One of our strategies is to maintain and increase our ownership in those partner companies that we believe have major growth opportunities. We may not be able to achieve this goal because of limited resources and/or the unwillingness of such companies and/or the stockholders of such companies to enter into a transaction that would result in an increase in our ownership stake. Moreover, certain transactional growth opportunities, such as mergers and consolidations, may arise with respect to any of these partner companies that would result in potentially dilutive issuances of such partner companies equity securities. In the event that any of these select partner companies enters into such a transaction, with or without our support, we may have a decreased ability to direct the policies and affairs of the partner company or the surviving entity following the consummation of the transaction. If we do not participate in follow-on financings at our partner companies our stakes in such companies will be diluted, which could materially reduce the value of such stakes. From time to time our partner companies raise capital by issuing and selling additional equity. We generally have preemptive rights to participate in these follow-on rounds of financing; however, we may elect not to participate in such rounds or may be required to waive our preemptive rights in whole or in part so that outside investors can participate. If we do not participate in a follow-on round of a partner company, our ownership interest in such company will be diluted. Additionally, in connection with new rounds of financing, our partner companies may issue preferred stock with liquidation preferences that are senior to existing preferred stock and common stock. If we do not participate in a follow-on round at a partner company, our ownership stake will decrease and our rights to receive proceeds in connection with the sale of that partner company will be diminished, which could result in a material reduction in the value of our stake in that partner company. 11 Table of Contents We may have to buy, sell or retain assets when we would otherwise choose not to buy, sell or retain in order to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act, which would impact our business strategy. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), a company is considered to be an investment company if, among other things, it is primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the Investment Company Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy of actively managing, operating and promoting collaboration among our network of partner companies. On August 23, 1999, the SEC granted our request for an exemption under Section 3(b)(2) of the Investment Company Act, declaring us to be primarily engaged in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. This exemptive order reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk that we may have to take action to avoid registration as an investment company. For example, we might be considered to be in violation of our exemptive order if more than a certain percentage of our total assets consist of, or more than certain percentages of our income/loss and revenue over the last four quarters is derived from, ownership interests in companies that we do not primarily control. Because we do not have primary control of many of our partner companies, changes in the value of our interests in such partner companies and the income/loss and revenue attributable to such partner companies could subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act unless we take precautionary steps. For example, we may retain interests in partner companies we would otherwise want to sell and we may sell stakes in non-controlled partner companies that we would otherwise want to retain. In order to ensure that the requisite percentage of our total assets relates to partner companies that we primarily control, we may participate in follow-on financings at our controlled partner companies and refrain from participating in such financings at our non-controlled partner companies. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating majority-owned or controlled interests that we might not otherwise have acquired and may not be able to acquire “non-controlling” interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire. Our partner companies could make financial or other business decisions that are not in our best interests or that we do not agree with, which could impair the value of our partner company interests. Although we generally seek to acquire a significant equity interest and participate in the management of our partner companies, we may not acquire or maintain a controlling interest in each partner company. If we lack control or share control in a partner company we may not be able to control significant financial or other business decisions of such partner company. Management or other stockholders of a partner company could have economic or business interests or objectives that are different from ours or disagree with our advice regarding financial or operating decisions, which could impair the value of our interest, prevent us from monetizing our interest at a time or at a price that is favorable to us or negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, our inability to prevent dilution of our ownership interests in a partner company or our inability to otherwise have a controlling influence over the management and operations of a partner company could have an adverse impact on our status under the Investment Company Act. We may not be able to extract cash from those partner companies that achieve profitability and may need to continue to rely on existing cash, liquidity events and additional capital raises to fund our operations. We currently rely on existing cash, partner company liquidity events and the issuance and sale of additional securities in order to fund our operations. One of our goals is to help our partner companies achieve profitability so that we can access their cash flow. However, even if certain of our partner companies do meet that goal, we may not be able to access cash generated by such partner companies to fund our operations due to a number of factors, including the needs of such companies to reinvest in their own businesses and our inability to control the significant business or financial decisions of such companies. Our inability to access the cash of our partner companies could have a negative impact on our operations. If public capital markets are not favorable for initial public offerings, we may not be able to capture stockholder value. The market for initial public offerings has experienced significant weakness in connection with recent market volatility. If this market is weak, we may not be able to capture stockholder value by taking our partner companies public. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain maximum value in connection with the divesture of partner company and marketable security interests. From time to time, we may divest of interests in partner companies or marketable securities to generate cash or for strategic reasons. The timing of such divestures, particularly with respect to our privately-held partner companies, may not be within our control. If we need to quickly divest partner company interests to satisfy immediate cash requirements or to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be forced to sell our assets prior to canvassing the market or at a time when market conditions valuations are unfavorable. We also may not be able to identify buyers for certain of our assets, particularly given the difficulty that potential acquirers may currently face in obtaining financing. Furthermore, in connection with the sale of a private partner company, we may not receive the full amount of proceeds to which we would otherwise be entitled under such company’s certificate of incorporation if additional payments to management and/or other stockholders are made to secure the approval and/or execution of such transaction. We may be unable to sell our interests in public-traded companies at then-quoted market prices, if at all, because low trading volumes of these companies may limit our ability to sell a significant amount of such companies’ stock in the open market. Registration and other requirements under applicable securities laws may also adversely affect our ability to dispose of our interests on a timely basis. Based on the foregoing factors, when we divest of an interest in a partner company or a marketable security, we may not receive maximum value for that asset and the realizable value of our interest in such asset may ultimately be lower than the carrying value currently reflected in our consolidated financial statements and/or the expectations our investors or securities analysts. Our accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of our basis in our partner companies could change materially in the near term. Our accounting estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis, including goodwill, in our partner companies could change in the near term, and the effect of such changes on our consolidated financial statements could be significant. In 2008 we recorded impairment charges of $23.2 million. It is possible that a significant write-down or write-off of partner company carrying basis, including goodwill, may be required in the future, or that a significant loss will be recorded in the future upon the sale of one or more partner companies. Any write-down or write-off of this type could cause a decline in the price of our Common Stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. Our stock price has historically been volatile. This volatility may continue in the future, particularly in light of the current uncertainty about global economic conditions. The following factors, among others, may add to our Common Stock price’s volatility: • general economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; • the reluctance of enterprises to increase spending on new products or services; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results and those of our partner companies; • changes in the market valuations of our partner companies and other similar companies; • conditions or trends related to Internet software and services companies; • changes in our financial estimates and those of our partner companies by securities analysts; • new products or services offered by us, our partner companies and their competitors; • announcements by our partner companies and their competitors of technological innovations; • announcements by us, our partner companies or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • additional sales or repurchases of our securities; and • additions to or departures of our key personnel or the key personnel of our partner companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may decrease the market price of our Common Stock. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our quarterly results may adversely affect our stock price. We expect that our quarterly results will fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including: • the acquisition of interests in partner companies; • the operating results of our partner companies; • sales of our ownership interests in our partner companies, which could cause us to recognize gains or losses under applicable accounting rules; • significant fluctuations in the financial results of Internet software and services companies generally; • changes in estimated quarterly equity losses or income; • changes in our methods of accounting for our partner company interests, which may result from changes in our ownership percentages of our partner companies; • the pace of development or a decline in growth of the Internet software and services markets; and • competition for the goods and services offered by our partner companies. If our operating results in one or more quarters do not meet securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the price of our Common Stock could decrease. Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of our publicly-traded holdings may affect the price of our Common Stock. Currently, the Company holds stock of Blackboard and GoIndustry, each of which is a publicly-traded entity. Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of Blackboard, GoIndustry or any of our other publicly-traded holdings are likely to affect the price of our Common Stock. The price of these publicly-traded companies’ common stock has been highly volatile. As of December 31, 2008, the market value of our interest in these publicly-traded companies was $62.7 million, which was based upon a $26.23 per share closing price for Blackboard and a $0.04 per share closing price for GoIndustry. The results of operations and, accordingly, the price of the stock, of Blackboard and GoIndustry may be adversely affected by the occurrence of the risk factors contained in this Report. In addition, the results of operations and stock price of Blackboard may be adversely affected by the risk factors in Blackboard’s SEC filings, which are publicly available at www.sec.gov, and the results of operations and common stock price of GoIndustry may be adversely affected by the factors set forth in GoIndustry’s submissions on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange, which are publicly available at www.londonstockexchange.com. We have had a general history of losses and expect continued losses in the foreseeable future. We have had significant operating losses and, excluding the effect of any future non-operating gains, such as from the sale of interests in partner companies, we expect to continue incurring operating losses in the future. As a result, we may not have sufficient resources to expand or maintain our operations in the future. We can give no assurances as to when or whether we will achieve profitability, and if we ever have profits, we may not be able to sustain them. Certain of our partner companies have a limited operating history and may never be profitable. Certain of our partner companies have limited operating histories. As a result, they have only short operating histories to aid in assessing future prospects. Additionally, certain of our partner companies have significant historical losses and may never be profitable. Many of our partner companies have incurred substantial costs to develop and market their products and expand operations, have incurred net losses and cannot fund their cash needs from operations. Operating expenses of these companies could increase in the foreseeable future as they continue to develop products, increase sales and marketing efforts and expand operations. 14 Table of Contents The loss of our or our partner companies’ executive officers or other key personnel or our or our partner companies’ inability to attract additional key personnel could disrupt our business and operations. If one or more of our executive officers or key personnel, including highly trained information technology personnel, or our partner companies’ executive officers or key personnel, including highly trained information technology personnel, were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if we or our partner companies were unable to hire qualified personnel, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Our partner companies’ success depends on the integrity of their systems and infrastructure. Interruptions in their information systems may adversely affect their businesses. To succeed, our partner companies’ systems and infrastructure must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, our partner companies may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all of their systems or data unavailable or prevent them from providing services, which could adversely affect their businesses. Moreover, as traffic to their various websites and the related number of uses and customers increase and the number products and services that they introduce continues to grow, they will need to upgrade their systems, infrastructure and technologies generally to facilitate this growth. If our partner companies do not do so or if they experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with current or future upgrades, third parties with which they do business may not be able to access their services on an intermittent or prolonged basis and the quality of experience that users and customers encounter with their products and services generally could diminish. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect their businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We and our partner companies may be subject to litigation proceedings or government regulation that could harm our respective businesses. We and our partner companies may be subject to legal claims involving stockholder, consumer, competition and other matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting one of our partner companies from performing a critical activity, such as selling its software and services. If we or one of our partner companies were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a litigation matter, our and our partner companies’ respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Even if legal claims brought against us or our partner companies are without merit, defending lawsuits may take significant time, be expensive and divert our or our partner companies’ management attention from other business concerns. Our partner companies’ software and services offerings are subject to government regulation domestically and internationally in many areas, including regulation of the Internet regarding user privacy, telecommunications, data protection and online content. The application of these laws and regulations to our partner companies’ businesses is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in monetary penalties being imposed on our partner companies or orders that our partner companies cease performing a critical activity, such as selling their software and services. Some of our partner companies may be unable to protect their proprietary rights and may be subject to claims that they infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property constitutes an important part of our partner companies’ assets and competitive strengths. Although our partner companies take steps to protect the rights to their intellectual property, their efforts may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of their intellectual property, or third parties may develop similar intellectual property independently. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our partner companies based on their patents or other intellectual property claims. If it is ultimately determined that our partner companies infringe on a third-party’s patents, they may have to pay substantial damages. They may have to obtain a license to sell their products if it is determined that their products infringe another person’s intellectual property. Our partner companies might be prohibited from selling their products before they obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require them to pay substantial royalties. 15 Table of Contents We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and also provides for a staggered board of directors. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Additionally, we have a rights agreement which has the effect of discouraging any person or group from beneficially owning more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock unless our board has amended the plan or redeemed the rights. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 