ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, as well as other factors of which we may be unaware or do not currently view as significant, could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Our future revenue is unpredictable, and we expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to decline. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Moreover, our operating results in some quarters have not in the past, and may not in the future, meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. This has in the past, and may in the future, cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the evolving nature of the markets in which we compete and the size of our customer agreements, we have difficulty accurately forecasting our revenue in any given period. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations, or those of stock market analysts and investors, or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products or services by our competitors; • the relatively long sales cycles for many of our products; 8 Table of Contents • the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter or our fiscal year in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • the timing of our new products or product enhancements or any delays in such introductions; • the delay or deferral of customer implementations of our products; • changes in customer budgets and decision making processes that could affect both the timing and size of any transaction; • our dependence on large deals, which if such deals do not close, can greatly impact revenues for a particular quarter; • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • the deferral of license revenue to future periods due to the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products; • the impact of our provision of services and customer-required contractual terms on our recognition of license revenue; • any difficulty we encounter in integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our operations; • the impact of employee stock-based compensation expenses on our earnings; and • changes in local, national and international regulatory requirements. In addition, while we may in future years record positive net income and/or increases in net income over prior periods, we may not show period-over-period earnings per share growth or earnings per share growth that meets the expectations of stock market analysts or investors as a result of the number of our shares outstanding during such periods. In such case, our stock price may decline. Our stock price may be volatile, which could cause investors to lose all or part of their investments in our stock. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. During fiscal year 2006, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $9.70 and a low of $6.44. If market or industry-based fluctuations continue, our stock price could decline in the future regardless of our actual operating performance and investors could lose all or part of their investments. Increases in services revenues as a percentage of total revenues may decrease overall margins. We have in the past realized and may continue in the future to realize a higher percentage of revenues from services and maintenance on a combined basis. For example, in fiscal year 2006, our service and maintenance revenue represented 54% of our total revenue. Our profit margin for maintenance is higher than our margin for services, but both are lower than our license revenue profit margin. As a result, if services and maintenance revenues increase as a percentage of total revenues, our overall profit margin may decrease which could impact our stock price. We must overcome significant competition in order to succeed. The market for our products and services is extremely competitive and subject to rapid change. We compete with a variety of large and small providers of solutions for enterprise application integration, SOA, BPM, 9 Table of Contents business optimization and MDM, including companies such as IBM, Oracle, Microsoft, BEA, SAP, Pegasystems and webMethods. We believe that of these companies, IBM has the potential to offer the most complete competitive set of products relative to our offerings. In addition, some of our competitors are expanding their competitive product offerings and market position through acquisitions and internal research and development. For example, Sun Microsystems acquired SeeBeyond in August 2005, potentially making Sun Microsystems a direct competitor of ours as well. BEA has also acquired companies that expand its offerings, such as Fuego, in March 2006, which potentially makes BEA a more direct competitor in BPM solutions. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. We also face competition for certain aspects of our product and service offerings from major systems integrators. Further, we may face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors provide software and intellectual property, typically without charging license fees. If customers choose such open source products over our proprietary software, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories; significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources; greater name recognition; and larger customer bases than we do. Our present or future competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer; adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements; or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets or competition may intensify and harm our business and operating results. If we are not successful in developing enhancements to existing products and new products in a timely manner, achieving customer acceptance for our existing and new product offerings or generating higher average selling prices, our gross margins may decline, and our business and operating results may suffer. Furthermore, any of our new product offerings or significant enhancements to current product offerings could cause some customers to delay making new or additional purchases while they fully evaluate any new offerings we might have introduced to the market, which in turn may slow sales and adversely affect operating results for an indeterminate period of time. Our strategy contemplates possible future acquisitions which may result in us incurring unanticipated expenses or additional debt, difficulty in integrating our operations and dilution to our stockholders and may harm our operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We have in the past and may in the future, acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies. In this regard, we have made strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of certain assets of Velosel Corporation (“Velosel”) and ObjectStar International Limited (“ObjectStar”) in 2005, and the acquisition of Staffware plc (“Staffware”) and General Interface Corporation in 2004. We do not know if we will be able to complete any subsequent acquisition or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate it profitably or retain its key employees. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or technology could be expensive and time-consuming, could disrupt our ongoing business and financial performance and could distract our management. In particular, integrating sales forces and strategies for marketing and sales has in the past required and will likely require in the future, substantial time, effort and expense, especially from our management team. Therefore, we might not be able, either immediately post-acquisition or ever, to replicate the pre-acquisition revenues achieved by companies that we acquire or achieve the benefits of the acquisition we anticipated in valuing the businesses, products or technologies we acquire. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired companies in international transactions can be particularly high, due to local laws and regulations. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entity, products or technology effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results would suffer. In addition, any amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation or other charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our operating results. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we may face competition for acquisition targets from larger and more established companies with greater financial resources. Also, in order to finance any acquisition, we might need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or use our cash reserves. In that event, we could be forced to obtain equity or debt financing on terms that are not favorable to us or that result in dilution to our stockholders. Use of our cash reserves for acquisitions could limit our financial flexibility in the future. Moreover, the terms of existing loan agreements may prohibit certain acquisitions or may place limits on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions. If we are not able to acquire strategically attractive businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to remain competitive in our industry. Our business is subject to seasonal variations which make quarter-to-quarter comparisons difficult. Our business is subject to variations throughout the year due to seasonal factors in the U.S. and worldwide. These factors include fewer selling days in Europe during the summer vacation season (which has a disproportionate effect on sales in Europe), the impact of the December holidays and a slow down in capital expenditures by our customers after calendar year-end (during our first fiscal quarter). These factors typically constrain sales activity in our first and third fiscal quarters compared to the rest of the year, and they make quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results less meaningful. We cannot accurately predict the impact of stock-based compensation expense on the trading price of our common stock. On December 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. As a result, starting with fiscal year 2006, our operating results contain a charge for stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options. This charge is in addition to stock-based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods related to non-employee stock options and business acquisitions. The application of SFAS No. 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock-based awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, expected stock price volatility, expected term, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), in fiscal year 2006, our earnings were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods, and we cannot accurately predict the magnitude of this effect on our earnings in future periods. Further, we cannot predict what the impact will be on the trading price of our common stock as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Also, SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the tax benefit of stock option deductions relating to incentive stock options be recorded in the period of disqualifying disposition. This could result in significant fluctuations in our effective tax rate between accounting periods. Future changes in financial accounting standards, financial reporting regulations and interpretations of these standards and regulations may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in larger license transactions. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of license revenue. While we believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) continues to issue 11 Table of Contents implementation guidelines for these standards and the accounting profession continues to discuss a wide range of potential interpretations. Additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices that could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or to recognize lower revenue and profits. Moreover, policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, facilities consolidation charges, allowances for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. To the extent that management’s judgment is incorrect, it could result in an adverse impact on our financial statements. Some of these matters are also among topics currently under re-examination by accounting standard setters and regulators. These standard setters and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our accounting policies. The past slowdown in the market for infrastructure software and its protracted recovery have caused our revenue to decline in the past and could cause our revenue or results of operations to fall below expectations in the future. The market for infrastructure software is relatively new and evolving. We earn a substantial portion of our revenue from licenses of our infrastructure software, including application integration software and sales of related services. We expect to earn substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future from sales of these products and services. Our future financial performance will depend on continued growth in the number of organizations demanding software and services for application integration and information delivery and companies seeking outside vendors to develop, manage and maintain this software for their critical applications. Lower spending by corporate and governmental customers around the world, which has had a disproportionate impact on information technology spending, has led to a reduction in sales in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Many of our potential customers have made significant investments in internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to third-party products, which may substantially inhibit the growth of the market for infrastructure software. If the market fails to grow, or grows more slowly than we expect, our sales will be adversely affected. Also, even as corporate and governmental spending increases and companies make greater investments in information technology and infrastructure software, our revenue may not grow at the same pace. Any failure by us to meet the requirements of current or newly-targeted customers may have a detrimental impact on our business or operating results. If we fail to meet the expectations or product and service requirements of our current customers, our reputation and business may be harmed. In addition, we may wish to expand our customer base into markets in which we have limited experience. In some cases, customers in different markets, such as financial services or government, have specific regulatory or other requirements which we must meet. For example, in order to maintain contracts with the U.S. Government, we must comply with specific rules and regulations relating to and that govern such contracts. While we have historically met the requirements of our customers, if we fail to meet such requirements in the future, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability or a reduction of revenue which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any losses we incur as a result of our exposure to the credit risk of our customers could harm our results of operations. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. As we have grown our revenue and customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. Although we have not had material losses to date as a result of customer defaults, future defaults, if incurred, could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We are required to undertake an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) that may identify internal control weaknesses requiring remediation, which could harm our reputation and confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) imposes duties on us, our executives and directors. We completed our fiscal year 2006 evaluation of the design and testing of effectiveness of our ICFR required to comply with the management certification and attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. While our assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of our ICFR resulted in our conclusion that as of November 30, 2006, our ICFR were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our ICFR is not effective, we may be required to change our ICFR to remediate deficiencies, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and we may be subject to investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Also, if we identify areas of our ICFR that require improvement, we could incur additional expenses to implement enhanced processes and controls to address such issues. Any such events could adversely affect our financial results and/or may result in a negative reaction in the stock market. Regulatory requirements have caused us to incur increased costs and operating expenses, may limit our ability to obtain director and officer liability insurance and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified officers and directors. Sarbanes-Oxley and rules enacted by the SEC and Nasdaq have caused us, and we expect will continue to cause us, to incur significant costs as a result of these regulatory requirements. In this regard, achieving and maintaining compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and other rules and regulations, have caused us to hire additional personnel and use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services and may require us to do so in the future. Failure to satisfy the rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or as executive officers. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain highly skilled employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. If we fail to retain and recruit key management and other skilled employees, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. As we grow, we must invest significantly in building our sales, marketing and engineering groups. Competition for these people in the SOA market is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. We are competing against companies with greater financial resources and name recognition for these employees, and as such, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet our hiring needs or hire the most qualified candidates. The success of our business is also heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel, including Vivek Ranadivé, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued operations. In addition, we must successfully integrate new employees into our operations and generate sufficient revenues to justify the costs associated with these employees. If we fail to successfully integrate employees or to generate the revenue necessary to offset employee-related expenses, we may be forced to reduce our headcount, which would force us to incur significant expenses and would harm our business and operating results. The value of our equity incentive programs may diminish as a retention tool as a result of the changes in the financial accounting standards and our stock price volatility. We have historically used equity incentive programs, such as employee stock options and stock purchase plans, as a part of overall employee compensation arrangements. As a result of changes in the financial 13 Table of Contents accounting standards, we have changed our stock purchase plan, reduced the size and number of stock option grants we give to our employees, changed the form of equity compensation we give to some of our employees and may make further changes to our equity compensation programs, all of which may decrease the effectiveness of our plans as employee retention tools. In addition, the volatility of our stock price may negatively impact the value of such equity incentives, thereby diminishing the value of such incentive programs to employees and decreasing the effectiveness of such programs as retention tools. The inability to upsell to our current customers or the loss of any significant customer could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We do not have long-term sales contracts with any of our customers. Our customers may choose not to purchase our products in the future. As a result, a customer that generates substantial revenue for us in one period may not be a source of revenue in subsequent periods. Any inability on our part to upsell to and generate revenues from our existing customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, our use of open source software components in our products may make us vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, in particular because many of the open source software components we may incorporate with our products may be developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. “Open source software” is software that is covered by a license agreement which permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software, typically free of charge. Further, because patent applications in the United States and many other countries are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, applications covering technology used in our software products may have been filed without our knowledge. While no intellectual property infringement lawsuits have been filed against us to date, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. Although no such claims have been made in the past, our software license agreements typically provide for indemnification of our customers for intellectual property infringement claims. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and seriously harm our business. If we were to discover that our products violated the intellectual property rights of others, we would have to obtain licenses from these parties in order to continue marketing our products without substantial reengineering. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, and if we could not obtain such licenses, we might not be able to reengineer our products successfully or in a timely fashion. If we fail to address any infringement issues successfully, we would be forced to incur significant costs, including damages and potentially satisfying indemnification obligations that we have with our customers, and we could be prevented from selling certain of our products. Our intellectual property or proprietary rights could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success. Accordingly, we rely upon a combination of copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secret rights, patents, confidentiality agreements and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property. Despite these protections, a third party could misappropriate our intellectual property. Any misappropriation of our proprietary information by third parties could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary information as do the laws of the United States. If our proprietary information or material were misappropriated, we might have to engage in litigation to protect it. We might not succeed in protecting our proprietary information if we initiate intellectual property litigation, and, in any event, such litigation would be expensive and time-consuming, could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and could seriously harm our business. 14 Table of Contents Market acceptance of new platforms, standards and technologies may require us to undergo the expense of developing and maintaining compatible product lines. Our software products can be licensed for use with a variety of platforms, standards and technologies, and we are constantly evaluating the feasibility of adding new platforms, standards and technologies. There may be future or existing platforms, standards and technologies that achieve popularity in the marketplace which may not be architecturally compatible with our software products. In addition, the effort and expense of developing, testing and maintaining software products will increase as more platforms, standards and technologies achieve market acceptance within our target markets. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our software products or adapt to new platforms, standards and technologies, our sales and revenues will be adversely affected. Developing and maintaining different software products could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could harm our revenue and financial condition. If we are not able to develop software for accepted platforms, standards and technologies, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if the platforms, standards and technologies we have developed software for are not accepted, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, short-term fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to further write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily European and Asian currencies. As a response to the risks of changes in value of foreign currency denominated transactions, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments, the majority of which mature within approximately one month. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. We do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which the Company conducts business. Accordingly, such amounts denominated in foreign currencies may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 15 Table of Contents We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. Our agreement with Reuters places certain limitations on our ability to conduct our business. Pursuant to the terms of the amended license, maintenance and distribution agreement with Reuters (the “Reuters Agreement”), we are permitted to market and sell our products, other than risk management and market data distribution products, directly and through third party resellers (other than specified resellers) to customers in the financial services market. The limitations on our ability to sell risk management and market data distribution products and on reselling through the specified resellers will continue through May 2008. While we currently do not offer any risk management and market data distribution solutions as part of our product offerings, if we were to develop any such products, we would have to rely on Reuters to sell those products in the financial services market until these restrictions end. Reuters is not required to help us sell any of these products in those markets, and Reuters may choose not to sell our products over our competitors’ products. In addition, we license from Reuters the intellectual property that was incorporated into early versions of some of our software products. We do not own this licensed technology. Because Reuters has access to intellectual property used in our products, it could use this intellectual property to compete with us. Reuters is not restricted from using the licensed technology it has licensed to us to produce products that compete with our products, and it can grant limited licenses to the licensed technology to others who may compete with us. In addition, we must license to Reuters all of the products we own, and the source code for one of our messaging products, through December 2012. This may place Reuters in a position to more easily develop products that compete with ours. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in California, a seismically active region. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in a few geographic areas. A natural disaster in one of these regions could have a material adverse impact on our U.S. and foreign operations, operating results and financial condition. Further, although we have not experienced a disruption to date, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our software may have defects and errors that could lead to a loss of revenues or product liability claims. Our products and platforms use complex technologies and, despite extensive testing and quality control procedures, may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. If defects or errors are discovered after commercial release of either new versions or enhancements of our products and platforms: • potential customers may delay purchases; • customers may react negatively, which could reduce future sales; • our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; • we may have to defend product liability claims; • we may be required to indemnify our customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers or other resellers; 16 Table of Contents • we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and • we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects and errors, which may result in the delay of new product releases or upgrades. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues, incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. We operate internationally and face risks attendant to those operations. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations. As a result of these sales operations, we face risks arising from local political, legal and economic factors such as the general economic conditions in each country or region, varying regulatory requirements and compliance with international and local trade, labor and other laws. We may also face difficulties in managing our international operations, collecting receivables in a timely fashion and repatriating earnings. Any of these factors, either individually or in combination, could materially impact our international operations and adversely affect our business as a whole. The outcome of litigation pending against us could require us to expend significant resources and could harm our business and financial resources. In May 2005, three purported shareholder class action complaints were filed against us and several of our officers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The plaintiffs in such actions are seeking to represent a class of purchasers of our common stock from September 21, 2004, through March 1, 2005. Plaintiffs generally allege that we made false or misleading statements concerning our operating results, our business and internal controls and the integration of Staffware. The actions were consolidated and in September 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California dismissed the litigation with prejudice. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal. Plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously; however, we expect to incur significant costs in mounting such defense. In September 2005, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed against certain of our officers and directors in the Superior Court of the State of California, Santa Clara County. The complaint was based on substantially similar facts and circumstances as the class actions and generally alleged that the named directors and officers breached their fiduciary duties to TIBCO. In December 2006, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the litigation without prejudice. In addition, we, certain of our directors and officers and certain investment bank underwriters have been named in a putative class action for violation of the federal securities laws in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned “In re TIBCO Software Inc. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation.” This is one of a number of cases challenging underwriting practices in the initial public offerings (each, an “IPO”) of more than 300 companies, which have been coordinated for pretrial proceedings as “In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation.” Plaintiffs generally allege that the underwriters engaged in undisclosed and improper underwriting activities, namely the receipt of excessive brokerage commissions and customer agreements regarding post-offering purchases of stock in exchange for allocations of IPO shares. Plaintiffs also allege that various investment bank securities analysts issued false and misleading analyst reports. The complaint against us claims that the purported improper underwriting activities were not disclosed in the registration statements for our IPO and secondary public offering and seeks unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased our securities or sold put options during the time period from July 13, 1999, to December 6, 2000. A lawsuit with similar allegations of undisclosed improper underwriting practices, and part of the same coordinated proceedings, is pending against Talarian, which we acquired in 2002. That action is captioned “In re Talarian Corp. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation.” The complaint against Talarian, certain of its 17 Table of Contents underwriters and certain of its former directors and officers claims that the purported improper underwriting activities were not disclosed in the registration statement for Talarian’s IPO and seeks unspecified damages on behalf of a purported class of persons who purchased Talarian securities during the time period from July 20, 2000, to December 6, 2000. A proposal to settle the claims against all of the issuers and individual defendants in the coordinated litigation was accepted by us and given preliminary approval by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The completion of the settlement is subject to a number of conditions, including final approval by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Under the settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all claims against participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in the action, and the assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. Under the guaranty, the insurers will be required to pay an amount equal to $1.0 billion less any amounts ultimately collected by the plaintiffs from the underwriter defendants in all the cases. Unlike most of the defendant issuers’ insurance policies, including ours, Talarian’s policy contains a specific self-insured retention in the amount of $0.5 million for IPO “laddering” claims, including those alleged in this matter. Thus, under the proposed settlement, if any payment is required under the insurers’ guaranty, our subsidiary, Talarian, would be responsible for paying its pro rata share of the shortfall, up to $0.5 million of the self-insured retention remaining under its policy. In April 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York held a fairness hearing in connection with the motion for final approval of the settlement in the coordinated litigation. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York has yet to issue a ruling on the motion for final approval. The settlement remains subject to a number of conditions, including final court approval. In December 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York’s October 2004 order certifying a class in six test cases that were selected by the underwriter defendants and plaintiffs in the coordinated proceedings. TIBCO and Talarian are not among the test cases, and it is unclear what impact this will have on the classes certified in TIBCO’s and Talarian’s cases. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. The defense of the lawsuits could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Negative developments with respect to the lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment could seriously harm our financial condition and liquidity. The use of open source software in our products may expose us to additional risks. Certain open source software is licensed pursuant to license agreements that require a user who distributes the open source software as a component of the user’s software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. This effectively renders what was previously proprietary software open source software. As competition in our markets increases, we must reduce our product development costs. Many features we may wish to add to our products in the future may be available as open source software and our development team may wish to make use of this software to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. While we carefully monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party has incorporated certain types of open source software into its software but has failed to disclose the presence of such open source software and we embed that third party software into one or more of our products, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our product. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as a stockholder rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. We have a stockholder rights plan providing for one right for each outstanding share of our common stock. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase certain securities at a specified purchase price. The rights plan may have the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire TIBCO on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the rights plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, provisions of our current certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 