ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this Report before deciding to invest in our Common Stock. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties about which we currently do not know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Numerous external forces, including generally weak and/or uncertain economic conditions, have negatively affected our and our companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial condition in recent years, and future weak or uncertain economic conditions could result in declines in our revenue and operating results. Numerous external forces, including the state of global financial markets and general economic conditions, lack of consumer confidence, lack of availability of credit, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations and national and international political circumstances (including wars and terrorist acts) have negatively affected our and our companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial condition in recent years, and they may do so in the future. Our and our companies’ businesses also may be negatively impacted by generally weak economic conditions affecting the banking system, financial markets and financial institutions, which have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets in recent years. Since these conditions (and the length of time or severity with which they may persist) are often difficult to anticipate, our and our companies’ respective operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of expected results in future periods. In response to adverse or uncertain financial conditions, many customers and potential customers of our companies may forgo, delay or reduce technology and other purchases. In connection with these conditions, our companies may experience reductions in the sales of their products and services, extended sales cycles, difficulties in collecting (or the inability to collect) accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and difficulties in obtaining (or the inability to obtain) financing. Volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the value of our companies and our other assets will be impaired and that the value to be captured in the future in connection with the disposition of our companies will be significantly lower than we initially expected. If our companies are unable to attract new customers or retain customers, including certain significant customers, our and our companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions could be negatively affected. Our companies may not be able to attract or retain customers due to a variety of reasons, including increased competition, the unwillingness of customers and potential customers to spend money on products and services during periods of economic turmoil and uncertainty, insolvency and the unavailability of credit. If our companies are unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers, our and our companies’ respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions could be negatively affected. During the year ended December 31, 2010, two customers of Procurian, The Hertz Corporation and Kimberly-Clark Corporation, represented approximately 11% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, these two customers each represented approximately 13% of our consolidated revenue. Although no customer individually represented 10% or more of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, most of our companies have a number of important individual customer relationships. If any of our companies are not able to retain those customers, or if any such customers significantly reduce the amount of products or services that they purchase from our companies, those companies and their and our respective businesses, results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. 7 Table of Contents The inability of our companies’ customers to pay their obligations to them in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our companies. The financial resources of our companies’ customers may have been weakened by the recent economic downturn. As a result, these customers may have inadequate financial resources to meet all of their obligations to our companies and may not make payments in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, if our companies’ customers do not have adequate financial resources, they may attempt to terminate or renegotiate existing contracts with our companies and may refrain from purchasing additional products and services from our companies. Those factors may cause our companies’ results of operations and financial condition to be adversely affected. If we are not able to deploy capital effectively and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our strategy includes effectively deploying capital by acquiring interests in new companies, both directly and through the companies that we own. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates that fit our strategy of acquiring majority stakes in companies. Even if we or our companies are able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, it may not be possible to acquire interests in those companies due to an inability to reach mutually acceptable financial or other terms with those companies or due to competition from other potential acquirers that may have greater resources, brand name recognition, industry contacts or flexibility of structure than we or our companies do. The turmoil in the global economy in recent years has caused significant fluctuations in the valuations of companies. Uncertainty regarding the extent to which valuations of companies that fit our acquisition criteria will continue to fluctuate may affect our ability to accurately value potential acquisition candidates. If we are unable to effectively deploy capital to companies on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute on our strategy, and our business may be adversely impacted. Our companies may not be able to compete successfully. If our companies are unable to compete successfully against their competitors, our companies may fail. Competition for Internet software and services is intense and is expected to intensify continually. Our companies’ competitors may develop products or services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than, the solutions offered by our companies. Many of our companies’ competitors have greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than our companies. This may place our companies at a disadvantage in responding to their competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances, marketing campaigns, strategic partnerships and other initiatives. The Internet software and services industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new service and product introductions and enhancements. The development of new service and product introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources, and our companies may not be able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to these changes, and our companies’ failure to do so could adversely affect our companies’ businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We may compete with some of our companies, and our companies may compete with each other, which could deter companies from partnering with us and may limit future business opportunities. We may compete with our companies to acquire interests in new companies, and our companies may compete with each other for business opportunities. This competition may deter potential acquisition targets from partnering with us and may limit our business opportunities. Our operations and growth and those of our companies could be impaired by limitations on our and/or their ability to raise capital or borrow money on favorable terms. We and our companies may need to raise additional capital or borrow money in order to sustain operations or to grow. If we or our companies are unable to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, our ability and the ability of our companies to operate and grow may be impaired. This may require us or our companies to take other actions, such as borrowing money on terms that may be unfavorable, or divesting of assets prematurely to raise capital. If we or our companies need capital and are unable to raise it, then we or they may need to limit or cease operations. 8 Table of Contents Adverse changes in economic conditions and reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our and our companies’ respective businesses depend on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for Internet software and services that improve the productivity of our customers’ businesses. In addition, the acquisition of our companies’ Internet software and services is often discretionary and may require customers to initially expend significant capital and other resources. In recent years, business spending on technology infrastructure has generally been stagnant. Continued uncertain economic conditions or, even if general economic conditions improve, a reduction in information technology spending, could adversely impact our business and the businesses of our companies in a number of ways that negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. For example, customers may (1) purchase a reduced amount of products and services from our companies, (2) purchase products and services that are offered for a cheaper price (without regard to quality) to replace our companies’ products and services, (3) develop a “home grown” solution to replace our companies’ products and services or (4) do without the types of products and services offered by our companies. Acquisitions by our companies could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. As part of their growth strategies, our companies have and may continue to strategically acquire other companies, business and technologies. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology involves numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired company or business and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although we and our companies will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular acquisition transaction, there can be no assurance that we or our companies will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses for our companies; they may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of a company’s equity securities. Accordingly, difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our or our companies’ businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Our evolving business strategy, which calls for us to deploy an increasing proportion of our acquisition capital towards, and to own an increasing proportion of our company interests in the form of, consolidated core companies, may subject us to additional risks. Under our evolving business strategy, our goal is to deploy an increasing proportion of our acquisition capital towards, and to own an increasing proportion of our company interests in the form of, consolidated core companies. Executing against this strategy could require us to deploy a larger amount of cash and/or issue shares of our stock to acquire individual companies than we have in the recent past, as the acquisition of a consolidated core company would be in the form of a relatively large equity stake, the valuation of which would, most likely, reflect the target company’s strong financial characteristics and growth potential (as we would generally seek such characteristics and growth potential in any consolidated core company that we would acquire), as well as, in many cases, a so-called “control premium.” Deploying larger amounts of capital to acquire individual companies could lead to a depletion of our available cash and could require us to borrow money, issue stock or otherwise raise additional capital, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. In addition, acquiring larger stakes in predominantly consolidated core companies could result in us owning a larger portion of our assets in the form of fewer companies, the financial results of which would be consolidated with ours. This could, accordingly, increase the impact that the poor performance, decline in value and/or failure of an individual company could have on our financial results and our business. During the years presented in this report, Procurian represented the majority of our consolidated revenue. Accordingly, any negative development at Procurian could have a significant negative impact on our financial results and our business. Moreover, because Procurian’s results constitute such a large portion of our consolidated results (with respect to which we provide the investment community with periodic guidance), any failure by Procurian to meet its expected results could cause us to fail to meet our overall expected results and, accordingly, could negatively impact our stock price. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to execute on our stated business strategy, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We have, in recent years, adopted, announced to our investors and potential investors and worked to implement a shift in our business strategy. This strategic evolution is intended to result in an increasing proportion of our acquisition capital being deployed towards, and an increasing proportion of our company interests being owned in the form of, consolidated core companies, ultimately leading to (1) firmer control over the operations and strategic decisions of our companies, (2) increased access to the cash of our companies (i.e., through cash distributions from those companies primarily in the form of dividends) and (3) increased transparency for our investors and prospective investors in our financial reports. We may be unable to execute on this strategy due to, among other things, our inability to find suitable targets in which to acquire equity stakes at attractive valuations and otherwise on attractive terms, our inability to finance the acquisition of additional consolidated core companies or to continue to finance the operations of our existing consolidated core companies (either with existing cash or through borrowing or other capital raising), and the failure of our consolidated core companies to generate cash. Many of these results could be driven by factors beyond our control, such as weak credit markets or uncertain or volatile market conditions. If we are unable to execute against our strategy or otherwise unable to achieve the intended benefits of our strategy, our stock price and our business could be adversely affected. Our inability to maintain or be able to increase our ownership stakes in companies with significant growth opportunities could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. One of our strategies is to maintain and increase our ownership in those companies that we believe have major growth opportunities such that we would have consolidated stakes in those companies. We may not be able to achieve this goal because of limited resources and/or the unwillingness of such companies and/or the stockholders of such companies to enter into a transaction that would result in an increase in our ownership stake. Moreover, certain transactional growth opportunities, such as mergers, acquisitions and consolidations, may arise with respect to any of these companies that would result in potentially dilutive issuances of such companies’ equity securities. In the event that any of these select companies enters into such a transaction, with or without our support, we may have a decreased ability to direct the policies and affairs of the company or the surviving entity following the consummation of the transaction. If we do not participate in follow-on financings at our companies, our stakes in those companies will be diluted, which could materially reduce the value of those stakes. From time to time our companies raise capital by issuing and selling additional convertible debt and/or equity securities. We generally have preemptive rights to participate in these follow-on rounds of financing; however, we may elect not to participate in such rounds or may be required to waive our preemptive rights in whole or in part so that outside investors can participate. If we do not participate in a follow-on round of a company, our ownership interest in that company will be diluted. Additionally, in connection with new rounds of financing, our companies may issue preferred stock with liquidation preferences that are senior to existing preferred stock and common stock. If we do not participate in a follow-on round at a company, our ownership stake will decrease and our rights to receive proceeds in connection with the sale of that company will be diminished, which could result in a material reduction in the value of our stake in that company. Moreover, in the event that we pay a control premium in connection with our acquisition of a majority stake in a company, we would not be able to command a similar premium upon the disposition of that stake if, through dilutive events, the stake becomes a minority interest. 10 Table of Contents We may have to buy, sell or retain assets when we would otherwise choose not to buy, sell or retain in order to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act, which would adversely impact our business strategy. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), a company is considered to be an investment company if, among other things, it is primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the Investment Company Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy of actively managing, operating and promoting collaboration among our network of companies. On August 23, 1999, the SEC granted our request for an exemption under Section 3(b)(2) of the Investment Company Act, declaring us to be primarily engaged in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. This exemptive order reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk that we may have to take action to avoid registration as an investment company. For example, we might be considered to be in violation of our exemptive order if more than a certain percentage of our total assets consist of, or more than certain percentages of our income/loss and revenue over the most recently completed four quarters is derived from, ownership interests in companies that we do not primarily control. Because we do not have primary control of many of our companies, changes in the value of our interests in such companies and the income/loss and revenue attributable to such companies could subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act unless we take precautionary steps. For example, we may retain interests in companies we would otherwise want to sell, and we may sell stakes in non-controlled companies that we would otherwise want to retain. In order to ensure that the requisite percentage of our total assets relates to companies that we primarily control, we may participate in follow-on financings at our controlled companies and refrain from participating in such financings at our non-controlled companies. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating majority-owned or controlled interests that we might not otherwise have acquired and may not be able to acquire “non-controlling” interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire. Our companies could make financial or other business decisions that are not in our best interests or that we do not agree with, which could impair the value of the securities we hold in our companies. Although we generally seek to acquire a controlling equity interest and participate in the management of our companies, we may not acquire or maintain a controlling stake in each company. If we lack control or share control in a company we may not be able to control significant financial or other business decisions of that company, including whether to sell that company or engage in an initial public offering at that company. Management or other stockholders of a company, even one in which we own a majority interest, could have economic or business interests or objectives that are different from ours or disagree with our advice regarding financial or operating decisions, which could impair the value of our stake, prevent us from monetizing our stake at a time or at a price that is favorable to us or negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, our inability to prevent dilution of our stake in a company or our inability to otherwise have a controlling influence over the management and operations of a company could have an adverse impact on our status under the Investment Company Act. We may not be able to extract cash from those of our companies that achieve profitability and may need to continue to rely on existing cash, liquidity events and additional capital raises to fund our operations. We currently rely on existing cash, liquidity events and dividends related to our companies and the issuance and sale of additional securities in order to fund our operations. One of our goals is to help our companies achieve profitability so that we can access their cash flow. Moreover, we are focusing on acquiring majority voting stakes in an increasing number of companies in part so that we have increased access to the cash flow of our companies, particularly through dividends. However, even if some of our companies do meet that goal, we may not be able to access cash generated by those companies to fund our operations due to a number of factors, including the needs of those companies to reinvest in their own businesses or acquire other businesses and our inability to control the significant business or financial decisions of those companies. Our inability to access the cash of our companies could have a negative impact on our operations. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain maximum value in connection with the divesture of our company and marketable security interests. From time to time, we may divest interests in our companies or marketable securities to generate cash or for strategic reasons. The timing of such divestures, particularly with respect to our privately-held companies, may not be within our control. If we need to divest company interests quickly to satisfy immediate cash requirements or to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be forced to sell our assets prior to canvassing the market or at a time when market conditions valuations are unfavorable. We also may not be able to identify buyers for certain of our assets, particularly given the difficulty that potential acquirers may currently face in obtaining financing. Furthermore, in connection with the sale of a private company, we may not receive the full amount of proceeds to which we would otherwise be entitled under that company’s certificate of incorporation if additional payments to management and/or other stockholders are made to secure the approval and/or execution of the sale. In times of economic uncertainty, a greater percentage of consideration in acquisition transactions tends to consist of earn-outs, holdbacks, escrows and other contingent consideration, some of which may never be realized by a seller. We may be unable to sell our interests in publicly-traded companies at then-quoted market prices, if at all, because low trading volumes of these companies may limit our ability to sell a significant amount of such companies’ stock in the open market. Registration and other requirements under applicable securities laws may also adversely affect our ability to dispose of our interests on a timely basis. Based on the foregoing factors, when we divest of an interest in a company or a marketable security, we may not receive maximum value for that asset and the realizable value of our interest in such asset may ultimately be lower than the carrying value currently reflected in our consolidated financial statements and/or the expectations our investors or securities analysts. In addition, the market for initial public offerings has experienced significant weakness in recent years in connection with recent market volatility. If this market is weak, we may not be able to capture stockholder value by taking our companies public. Our accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis in our companies could change materially in the near term. Our accounting estimates with respect to the ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis, including goodwill, in our companies could change in the near term, and the effect of those changes on our consolidated financial statements could be significant. We did not record impairment charges during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 we recorded impairment charges of $2.9 million and $5.4 million, respectively. It is possible that a significant write-down or write-off of our carrying basis in our companies, including goodwill, may be required in the future, or that a significant loss will be recorded in the future upon the sale of one or more companies. Any write-down or write-off of this type could cause a decline in the price of our Common Stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. Our stock price has historically been volatile. This volatility may continue in the future, particularly in light of the general uncertainty about global economic conditions in recent years. The following factors, among others, may add to our Common Stock price’s volatility: • general economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations; • the reluctance of enterprises to increase spending on new products or services; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results and those of our companies; • changes in the market valuations of our companies and other similar companies; • conditions or trends related to Internet software and services companies; • changes in our financial estimates and those of our companies by securities analysts; • new products or services offered by us, our companies and their competitors; • announcements by our companies or their competitors of technological innovations; • announcements by us, our companies or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • additional sales or repurchases of our securities; and • additions to or departures of our key personnel or the key personnel of our companies. 12 Table of Contents Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any of these factors may decrease the price of our Common Stock. Fluctuations in our quarterly results may adversely affect our stock price. We expect that our quarterly results will fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including: • the acquisition of interests in companies; • the operating results, including growth rates, of our companies; • sales of our ownership interests in our companies, which could cause us to recognize gains or losses under applicable accounting rules; • significant fluctuations in the financial results of Internet software and services companies generally; • changes in estimated quarterly revenue, equity losses, income or other performance metrics; • changes in our methods of accounting for our company interests, which may result from changes in our ownership percentages of our companies; • the pace of development or a decline in growth of the Internet software and services markets; and • competition for the goods and services offered by our companies. Our stockholders and prospective stockholders are increasingly evaluating our company based on its quarterly performance against financial targets. If our operating results in one or more quarters do not meet securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the price of our Common Stock could decrease. Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of our publicly-traded holdings may affect the price of our Common Stock. Currently, excluding the publicly-traded common stock of IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. (NYSE: ICE) (“ICE”) and The Active Network (NYSE: ACTV) (“Active”) being held in escrow to which we may be entitled, we hold stock of GoIndustry, which is a publicly-traded entity on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange and a receivable for Active common stock. Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of those or any other publicly-traded holdings we may hold from time to time may affect the price of our Common Stock. The price of GoIndustry’s common stock has been highly volatile. As of December 31, 2011, the market value of our interests in GoIndustry and Active was $1.7 million and $7.0 million, respectively, based on the closing price of those publicly-traded companies’ common stock. The results of operations and or the price of the stock of GoIndustry and Active may be adversely affected by the occurrence of the risk factors contained in this Report. In addition, the results of operations and common stock price of GoIndustry may be adversely affected by the risk factors set forth in GoIndustry’s submissions on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange, which are publicly available at www.londonstockexchange.com and the results of operations and common stock price of Active may be adversely affected by the risk factors set forth in Active’s SEC filings, which are publicly available at www.sec.gov. We have had a general history of operating losses and expect continued operating losses in the foreseeable future. We have had significant operating losses and, excluding the effect of any future non-operating gains, such as from the sale of interests in our companies, we expect to continue incurring operating losses in the future. As a result, we may not have sufficient resources to expand or maintain our operations in the future. We can give no assurances as to when or whether we will achieve profitability, and if we ever have profits, we may not be able to sustain them. 13 Table of Contents Some of our companies have limited operating histories and may never be profitable. Some of our companies have limited operating histories. As a result, they have only short operating histories to aid in assessing future prospects. Additionally, some of our companies have significant historical losses and may never be profitable. Many of our companies have incurred substantial costs to develop and market their products and expand operations, have incurred net losses and cannot fund their cash needs from operations. Operating expenses of these companies could increase in the foreseeable future as they continue to develop products, increase sales and marketing efforts and expand operations. The loss of our or our companies’ executive officers or other key personnel, or our or our companies’ inability to attract additional key personnel, could disrupt our business and operations. If one or more of our executive officers or key personnel, or our companies’ key personnel, were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if we or our companies were unable to hire qualified personnel, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Our companies’ success depends on the integrity of their systems and infrastructure. Interruptions in their information systems may adversely affect their businesses. To succeed, our companies’ systems and infrastructure must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, our companies may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all of their systems or data unavailable or prevent them from providing services, which could adversely affect their businesses. Moreover, as traffic to their various websites and the related number of users and customers increase and the number products and services that they introduce continues to grow, they will need to upgrade their systems, infrastructure and technologies generally to facilitate this growth. If our companies do not do so or if they experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with current or future upgrades, third parties with which they do business may not be able to access their services on an intermittent or prolonged basis and the quality of experience that users and customers encounter with their products and services generally could diminish. The occurrence of any of those events could adversely affect their businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We and our companies may be subject to litigation proceedings or government regulation that could harm our respective businesses. We and our companies may be subject to legal claims involving stockholder, consumer, competition and other matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting one or more of our companies from performing a critical activity, such as selling its software and services. If we or one of our companies were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a litigation matter, our and our companies’ respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Even if legal claims brought against us or our companies are without merit, defending lawsuits may be time-consuming and expensive and may divert our or our companies’ management attention from other business concerns. Our companies’ software and services offerings are subject to government regulation domestically and internationally in many areas, including regulation of the Internet regarding user privacy, telecommunications, data protection and online content. The application of those laws and regulations to our companies’ businesses is often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with those laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in monetary penalties being imposed on our companies or orders that our companies cease performing a critical activity, such as selling their software and services. 14 Table of Contents We have implemented certain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including supermajority voting requirements and the inability of our stockholders to call stockholder meetings or act by written consent, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and also provides for a staggered board of directors. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 