Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial results are subject to a number of risks. The factors discussed below highlight risks that management believes are most relevant to the Company’s current operations. This list does not capture all risks associated with the Company’s business. Additional risks, including those that generally affect the banking and financial services industries and those that management currently believes are immaterial may also negatively impact the Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. Changes in the credit risk of our borrowers could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of nonpayment is affected by changes in economic conditions, the credit risks of a particular borrower, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. While we intend to maintain a prudent approach to extending credit by undertaking due diligence and credit scoring to determine the risk of each credit application, there can be no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. If we fail to adequately manage our credit risk, we could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect us.There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. We can give no assurance that our allowance for loan losses (ALL) is or will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. We maintain an ALL, which is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, and which represents management’s best estimate of probable future losses within the Bank's existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the ALL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our ALL. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our ALL. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our ALL and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed our ALL, we will need to record additional provisions to increase our ALL. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in our ALL will result in a negative impact on net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10Our high percentage of commercial loans presents a greater risk of nonpayment.Generally, commercial and industrial, commercial construction and land development and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of nonpayment by a borrower than other types of loans. These loans comprised 25%, 8% and 27%, respectively, of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2013. The market value of real estate, particularly real estate held for investment, can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time. In addition, the economic downturn has caused several businesses to close. If the value of the real estate or other business assets serving as collateral for our loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, resulting in a material adverse effect on our provision for loan losses and on our operating results. Our earnings and financial condition may be negatively impacted by a slow recovery in the economy of South Central Pennsylvania. Metro’s business is concentrated in South Central Pennsylvania. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent upon the growth in businesses, population, income, deposits and housing in this geographic area. The South Central Pennsylvania area experienced some economic recovery during 2013. However, economic weakness still exists and the activity in the area has not yet returned to pre-recession levels. Because of the concentration of our business in this region, we are unable to spread the geographic risks over a larger area. While we experienced 15% growth in our net loans in 2013, a sluggish economy could slow that growth in 2014 and otherwise adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.Unfavorable economic and market conditions due to the lingering effects of the recent global financial crisis may materially and adversely affect us. Economic conditions in the United States have stabilized somewhat as inflation remained subdued and economic activity expanded at a moderate pace. Amid signs of an improving U.S. economy (e.g., an improved housing sector, increased consumer spending and a rebound in industrial activity), the economic outlook remains subject to high uncertainty and downside risks. Although signs of a global slowdown persist, it is the fiscal discord in Washington that poses the greatest threat to the U.S. recovery. Future economic developments could have various effects on us, including insolvency of major customers and a negative impact on the investment income we are able to earn on our investment portfolio. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict. Distress in the credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions have resulted in the failure of some financial institutions around the world and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps in efforts to continue or stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. There can be no assurance that these efforts will succeed. We could be materially adversely affected by: (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets; (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions; (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to continue the stabilization or provide additional regulation of the financial system; or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or longer lasting than currently anticipated. The Bank cannot be assured that any governmental action would benefit the Bank. The Basel III capital requirements may require us to maintain higher levels of capital, which could reduce our profitability.Basel III targets higher levels of base capital, certain capital buffers and a migration toward common equity as the key source of regulatory capital. Although the new capital requirements are phased in over the next decade, Basel III signals a growing effort by domestic and international bank regulatory agencies to require financial institutions, including depository institutions, to maintain higher levels of capital. The direction of the Basel III implementation activities or other regulatory viewpoints could require additional capital to support our business risk profile prior to final implementation of the Basel III standards. If the Company and the Bank are required to maintain higher levels of capital, the Company and the Bank may have fewer opportunities to invest capital into interest-earning assets, which could limit the profitable business operations available to the Company and the Bank and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.Future credit downgrades of the United States Government due to issues relating to debt and the deficit may adversely affect the Company. As a result of the persistent failure of the federal government to reach agreement over the federal budget, the federal debt and the debt ceiling, certain rating agencies placed the United States government's long-term sovereign debt rating on their equivalent of negative watch and announced the possibility of a rating downgrade. This is in addition to the one-level downgrade announced by Standard and Poors in August, 2011. The rating agencies, due to constraints related to the rating of the United States, also placed government-sponsored enterprises in which the Company invests and receives lines of credit on negative watch and another downgrade of the United State's credit rating would trigger a similar downgrade in the credit rating of these government sponsored 11enterprises. Furthermore, the credit rating of other entities, such as state and local governments, may also be downgraded should the United States credit rating be downgraded. The impact that a credit rating downgrade may have on the national and local economy could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges relating to our investment portfolio. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that we determine are other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company, which could materially adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Significant impairment charges could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. We may be required to pay higher FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments which may adversely affect our earnings. Bank failures in recent years increased the costs of the FDIC and depleted its deposit insurance fund. Future bank failures may prompt the FDIC to increase its premiums above the current levels or to issue special assessments. We generally are unable to control the amount of premiums or special assessments that our subsidiary bank is required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock.We plan to continue to grow rapidly but there are limitations and risks associated with rapid growth. We experienced significant growth in assets, loans and deposits over the past several years. Our growth continues to be achieved through organic growth. We intend to continue to expand our business and operations in our existing South Central Pennsylvania footprint as well as plan to explore opening new stores in other counties in Pennsylvania. Subject to regulatory approvals, we are targeting to open approximately 5-7 new stores over the next five years. We anticipate the cost to construct and furnish a new store will be approximately $3.1 million, excluding the cost to lease or purchase the land on which the store is located. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms with our high quality service and low fees, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and competition. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect us. Growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and on terms favorable to current shareholders. We anticipate that our existing capital will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In September 2009, we completed a successful common stock offering which raised nearly $78 million. This additional capital provides the foundation for future de novo store growth. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on various matters, including our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control. The current financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, which has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise additional capital. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth, branching and/or acquisitions could be materially impaired. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would likely dilute the ownership interests of current shareholders and could dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of our common stock. Consequently, a capital raise through issuance of additional shares may have an adverse impact on our stock price. Furthermore, new investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact current shareholders. 12We must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market area. As we grow, we must be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could materially adversely affect us. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect us. We may be adversely affected by lawsuits alleging trademark infringement. On or about June 15, 2009, we changed our name and the name of the Bank and began using the red “M” logo. Several companies in the United States, including companies in the banking and financial services industries, use variations of the word “Metro” and the letter “M” as part of a trademark or trade name. As such, we face potential objections to our use of these marks. On or about June 19, 2009, Members 1st Federal Credit Union (Members 1st), filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania against Metro Bancorp, Inc. and Metro Bank. Members 1st claimed federal trademark infringement, federal unfair competition and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition by Metro in Metro’s use of a red letter “M” alone, or in conjunction with its trade name “Metro”. Members 1st alleged that such use infringes Members 1st’s federally registered and common law trademark for the mark M1ST (stylized). On February 25, 2011, the parties to this lawsuit executed and filed with the court a Stipulation and Proposed Order of Dismissal under which the complaint against Metro and the Bank was dismissed without prejudice. While Metro made certain modifications to its logos, we can provide no assurance that the Members 1st lawsuit will not be reinstituted at a later time or that other trademark infringement actions will not be brought against us. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net income and liquidity. Our operating income, net income and liquidity depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income and therefore our earnings and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings and liquidity could also be materially adversely affected if the rates on our loans, securities and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties surrounding our exposure to change in the interest rate environment. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We have substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer in our market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Several of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and access to capital, higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income and liquidity by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. The same competitor advantages listed above exist in attempting to attract business and consumer deposits. The Bank faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than the Bank, which could decrease the deposits that the Bank attracts or require the Bank to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. 13Our share price may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including, but not limited to: •actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition;•changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts;•continuing to not pay dividends on common stock;•publication of research reports about us or the banking industry generally;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•the effects of and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, including the duration of such policies;•general economic or business conditions, either nationally, regionally or in the communities in which we do business, may be less favorable than expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality and loan performance or a reduced demand for credit;•the effects of ongoing short and long-term federal budget and tax negotiations and their effects on economic and business conditions in general and our customers in particular;•the effects of the failure of the federal government to reach a deal to permanently raise the debt ceiling and the potential negative results on economic and business conditions;•the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) and other changes in financial services’ laws and regulations (including laws concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance);•possible impacts of the capital and liquidity requirements of the Basel III standards and other regulatory pronouncements; •continued effects of the aftermath of recessionary conditions and the impacts on the economy in general and our customers in particular, including adverse impacts on loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customers' ability to meet credit obligations;•our ability to manage current levels of impaired assets;•continued levels of loan volume origination;•the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses (allowance or ALL);•the impact of changes in Regulation Z and other consumer credit protection laws and regulations;•changes resulting from legislative and regulatory actions with respect to the current economic and financial industry environment;•changes in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) deposit fund and the associated premiums that banks pay to the fund;•interest rate, market and monetary fluctuations;•the results of the regulatory examination and supervision process;•unanticipated regulatory or legal proceedings and liabilities and other costs;•compliance with laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local agencies;•our ability to continue to grow our business internally or through acquisitions and successful integration of new or acquired entities while controlling costs;•deposit flows;•the willingness of customers to substitute competitors’ products and services for our products and services and vice versa, based on price, quality, relationship or otherwise;•changes in consumer spending and saving habits relative to the financial services we provide;•the ability to hedge certain risks economically;•the loss of certain key officers; 14•changes in accounting principles, policies and guidelines as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other accounting standards setters;•the timely development of competitive new products and services by us and the acceptance of such products and services by customers;•rapidly changing technology;•continued relationships with major customers;•effect of terrorist attacks and threats of actual war;•other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting the Company’s operations, pricing, products and services;•interruption or breach in security of our information systems resulting in failures or disruptions in customer account management, general ledger processing and loan or deposit systems; •our ability to maintain compliance with the exchange rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.;•our ability to maintain the value and image of our brand and protect our intellectual property rights;•disruptions due to flooding, severe weather or other natural disasters or Acts of God; and•our success at managing the risks involved in the foregoing.Stock markets, in general, have experienced over the past few years and continue to experience significant price and volume volatility and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased market volatility could result in a substantial decline in the market price of our common stock.Our common stock is not insured by any governmental entity and, therefore, an investment in our common stock involves risk. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity and is subject to investment risk, including possible loss. There may be future sales of our common stock, which may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We issued 6.88 million shares of our common stock in a public offering in September 2009. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, whether directly by us or by existing common stockholders in the secondary market, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In addition, we may issue other equity securities that are senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, to support operations and growth, to maintain our capital ratios and to comply with any future changes in regulatory standards. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, the average daily trading volume for our common stock was approximately 24,000 shares. As a result, a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive. 15Our common stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and preferred equity claims against our subsidiaries. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests in us and, as such, will rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of our subsidiaries’ liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors and preferred stockholders. Our ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries.Neither the Company nor the Bank has declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock since the Bank began operations in June 1985. Our board of directors intends to follow a policy of retaining earnings for the purpose of increasing the Company's and the Bank's capital for the foreseeable future. Although the board of directors anticipates establishing a cash dividend policy in the future, no assurance can be given that cash dividends will be paid. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose, after debt service payments and payments of dividends required to be paid on our outstanding preferred stock, if any. While we are not subject to certain restrictions on dividends applicable to a bank, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will depend to a large extent upon the amount of dividends paid by the Bank to Metro. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary, the Bank. There are various legal and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can, among other things, finance, or otherwise supply funds to, the Company. Specifically, dividends from the Bank are the principal source of the Company's cash funds and there are certain legal restrictions under Pennsylvania law and Pennsylvania banking regulations on the payment of dividends by state-chartered banks. The relevant regulatory agencies also have authority to prohibit the Company and the Bank from engaging in what, in the opinion of such regulatory body, constitutes an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The payment of dividends could, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and the Bank, be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice.“Anti-takeover” provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law and our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, our Articles of Incorporation provide that our board of directors may issue up to an additional 960,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, subject to the rights of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. In addition, “anti-takeover” provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and federal and state laws, including Pennsylvania law, may restrict a third party’s ability to obtain control of the Company and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and other five percent or greater shareholders own a significant percentage of our Company and could influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors as a group owned and had the right to vote approximately 8.0% of our outstanding stock and other five percent or greater shareholders, which are institutional holders who have sole or shared voting power with the beneficial owners of the stock, owned and had the right to vote approximately 33.5% of our outstanding common stock. These shareholders, acting together, would be able to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Metro.We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may materially adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws, regulations or any applicable accounting principles may materially adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act became law on July 21, 2010 and will implement significant 16changes to the U.S. financial system. Information concerning this law is incorporated by reference to the discussion in this report under "Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation." Among the key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act is the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau), which is an independent bureau within the Federal Reserve System with broad authority in the consumer finance industry. The Bureau has the authority through rulemaking, orders, policy statements, guidance and enforcement actions to administer and enforce federal consumer financial laws. These laws were previously administered for all banking institutions by different federal agencies, including the FDIC and the Federal Reserve, both current federal regulators of the Bank and Company, respectively. Going forward, the Bureau will administer federal consumer protection laws for all financial institutions with total assets greater than $10 billion. The FDIC will continue to administer such laws for Metro as long as our total assets do not exceed $10 billion. The Bureau's jurisdiction over the Bank will be secondary to the FDIC; however, the Bureau will have authority to require reports from and to conduct limited examinations of the Bank. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company's financial position cannot be estimated at this time. As the required regulations are adopted by the applicable federal agencies and the various provisions of the new law are implemented, the Company will adopt the necessary policies and procedures to assure its compliance.Our internal control systems are inherently limited.Our systems of internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures are inherently limited. The inherent limitations of our system of internal controls include the use of judgment in decision-making that can be faulty; breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistakes; and controls can be circumvented by individual acts or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitation of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, any plans of remediation for any identified limitations may be ineffective in improving our internal controls.Our financial performance may suffer if our information technology is unable to keep pace with growth or industry developments.Effective and competitive delivery of our products and services is increasingly dependent upon information technology resources and processes, both those provided internally as well as those provided through third party vendors. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Additionally, as technology in the financial services industry changes and evolves, keeping pace becomes increasingly complex and expensive for us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to compete effectively.A failure in or a breach of our information systems or infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In the ordinary course of the Bank's business activities, including the ongoing maintenance of deposits, loan and other account relationships for the Bank's customers, receiving instructions and effecting transactions for those customers and other users of the Bank's products and services, the Bank regularly collects, processes, transmits and stores significant amounts of confidential information regarding its customers, employees and others. In addition to confidential information regarding the Bank's customers, employees and others, the Company and in some cases a third party, compiles, processes, transmits and stores proprietary, non-public information concerning its own business, operations, plans and strategies.Information security risks for the Bank and other financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our Company relies on digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smart phones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized use, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. We believe that it is more likely than not that such attempted attacks may continue. 17Although the Company uses a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect confidential information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. A failure in or breach of the Company's operational or information security system, or those of a third-party service provider, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches could have a material adverse affect on our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause significant losses. Although the Company believes that it currently has adequate information security procedures and other safeguards in place and the Company will continue to make it a priority to develop and enhance controls and processes designed to safeguard our information systems from attacks, damage or unauthorized access, as information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend substantial resources to further enhance its information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.