Item 1A. Risk Factors. The information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other applicable securities laws. Such statements can be identified by the use of the forward-looking words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “hope,” “risk,” “could,” “plan,” “pro forma,” “potential,” “predict,” “prospects,” “outlook” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections regarding future developments, operations or financial conditions or state other forward-looking information. These forward-looking statements involve various important risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results for 2008 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could affect our future financial performance and cause actual future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K: We may not be able to grow or maintain comparable store sales Our comparable store sales performance has fluctuated in the past on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis and is expected to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors have historically affected, and are expected to continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • economic conditions; • weather conditions; • changing fashion trends; • competition; • new store openings in existing markets; • store remodeling and expansions; • customer response to our marketing programs; • procurement and management of merchandise inventory; and • development and growth of our Justice brand. 9 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, we may not achieve comparable store sales growth or be able to maintain comparable store sales growth in the future. As comparable store sales are an important measurement, our common stock price may be materially affected by fluctuations in our comparable store sales performance. We must identify and respond to fashion and lifestyle trends and satisfy customer demands in order to continue to succeed Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate the desired fashion and lifestyle trends of our customers and offer merchandise which appeals to them on a timely and affordable basis. We expect our customers’ desired fashion and lifestyle needs to change frequently. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may be adversely affected and we may have excess inventories. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, or take higher than planned markdowns, which could reduce our operating income. Our brand image may also suffer if our customers believe our merchandise misjudgments indicate we are no longer able to offer them the latest fashion and lifestyle products. We may be unable to compete successfully in our highly competitive segment of the retail industry The tween retail apparel and accessories industry is highly competitive. We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. We also compete with direct marketers who, like us, target customers through catalogs, internet shopping capabilities and other distribution channels. Our success continues to attract many new competitors to enter the market. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of our market share, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available to them. In many cases, our primary competitors are located in the same shopping centers as our stores thereby offering an alternative shopping experience to our customer, and in addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms. We depend on a high volume of mall and power center traffic to generate sales Our stores are located in both shopping malls and power centers. Our sales depend, in part, on the high volume of traffic in those shopping areas. Our stores benefit from the traffic generated by the shopping area’s anchor tenants, generally large department and specialty stores. Mall and power center traffic, and consequently our sales volume, may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from other retailers, success of retail centers where we do not have stores, and the closing of anchor tenants. In addition, a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment in a particular mall or power center or an overall decline in the popularity of mall and power center shopping among our target consumers. To the extent we experience a decline in traffic, our sales could decrease, and result in a decrease in our operating income. Expansion into new and existing markets creates challenges Our expansion into new and existing markets may present competitive, design and distribution challenges that differ from our current challenges. These challenges include competition among our stores and brands, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution center and additional information to be processed by our information systems. New stores in new markets, including international markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and our brands are less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets. Expansion into new markets could bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. To the extent that we are not able to overcome these new challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating costs could rise. 10 Table of Contents Effectiveness of store remodels is unpredictable In order to maintain a fresh, clean and positive shopping environment for our target customers, we periodically remodel a portion of our existing stores. The desired effects of a store remodel include increased store traffic and sales. The long term effect of a particular store remodel can not be precisely predicted. Additionally, a remodel may cause a short-term disruption to our business at a particular location. The market for prime real estate is competitive In order to sustain growth, our strategy requires securing desirable retail lease space and opening stores in new and existing markets. We must choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase the number of our retail stores in our brands will depend in part on the availability of suitable store sites. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to execute favorable real estate transactions, hire competent personnel and develop these new stores, our growth may not be sustainable. Our future success depends upon brand awareness and the effectiveness of our marketing programs Our future success depends upon our ability to effectively define, evolve and promote our brands. In order to achieve and maintain significant brand name recognition, we will need to invest in the development of our brands through various means, including customer research, advertising and promotional events, direct mail marketing, internet marketing and other measures. Certain external costs may be subject to price fluctuations such as increases in the cost of mailing, paper or printing catalogs and other direct mail promotions. We can provide no assurance that the marketing strategies we implement and the investments we make will be successful in building significant brand awareness or attracting new customers. Our licensed Limited Too and registered Justice brands are integral to our brand strategy We currently license the Limited Too brand name and have a federal registration for the Justice trademark and other trademarks in the United States. We have also applied for or obtained numerous other registrations in the United States and internationally, including a registration for Justice in most of the foreign countries in which our vendors are located. We cannot be assured that the registrations we have applied for or obtained will be adequate to prevent the imitation of our products or the infringement or challenge of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party imitates our products, consumers may be confused and the third party may gain sales at our expense. If any such products are manufactured or marketed in a manner projecting lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be adversely affected. In addition, our right to operate under the Limited Too brand is governed by an exclusive trademark and service mark licensing agreement with Limited Brands. The agreement is renewable annually, at our option. In return, we are required to provide Limited Brands with the right to inspect our stores and distribution facilities and to review our advertising. Limited Brands has the right to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, specifically if: • we breach any of our obligations under the agreement and do not cure the breach within 60 days after receiving notice of the breach; • we become bankrupt or insolvent; or • we experience a change of control. The agreement also restricts the way in which we use the licensed brand in our business. We may only use the brand name “Limited Too” in connection with any business in which we sell to our Limited Too target customer group. Although we currently market only to tweens, our licensing agreement allows us to market to infants and toddlers as well. 11 Table of Contents If in the future we are unable to use the Limited Too brand, we will be forced to change our brand name. Because much of our merchandise is currently sold under the Limited Too label in stores called “Limited Too,” a name change might cause confusion for our customers and adversely affect our brand recognition and our sales. We would need to expend substantial resources, which we cannot estimate at this time, to rename our stores, to produce new merchandise and to establish brand recognition. Talented personnel are critical to our success Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our senior executive officers and merchandising and design personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could impact our ability to bring desirable products to market or effectively manage our internal operations. Such a loss could reduce future revenues, increase costs, or both. Our success in the future will also depend upon our ability to attract, develop and retain talented and qualified personnel. We may not be able to sustain a growth rate sufficient to implement our expansion strategy There is a risk that we may not be able to sustain our growth at a rate consistent with our past. Our future growth prospects depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • find suitable markets and sites for our stores and negotiate leases on acceptable terms for those stores; • fulfill our plans to open new stores and remodel or expand existing stores; • continue to develop our sales channels, including our direct-to-consumer operations; • identify suitable franchise operators for our international expansion initiative; • expand our infrastructure to accommodate our growth, including maintaining high levels of customer service; • attract, train and retain qualified sales associates; • manage our inventory effectively, maintain sufficient distribution capacity and deliver our merchandise in a timely manner; • keep up with constantly shifting fashion trends and develop new and appealing merchandise; and • maintain continued success for our Justice brand. We will require substantial capital expenditures to implement our business strategy, in particular our opening of new stores and remodeling or expansion of our existing stores. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing under our credit facility or from other sources on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. There would be risks associated with launching and maintaining a new concept As we continue to grow our business, we may take advantage of certain opportunities created by the development of new brand concepts. The ability to succeed in any potential new concept requires significant capital expenditures and management attention. Potential new concepts are subject to certain other risks including: • customer awareness and acceptance of the new brand and its products; • competition, both external and internal; • product and brand differentiation among our already-existing brands; and • the ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel including management and designers. We can provide no assurance that we will develop a new concept or, if we do, that the new concept will grow or become profitable. If we attempt to develop and grow a new brand and do not succeed, this could adversely impact the continued growth of our existing brands and our results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Our business fluctuates on a seasonal basis We experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales and operating income, with a disproportionate amount of our sales and operating income typically realized during our fourth quarter due to sales during the holiday shopping period. We also generate significant sales during the back-to-school period in the third quarter. Any decrease in sales or margins during those periods could reduce future annual profit margins and reduce future operational cash flow. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We typically order merchandise in advance of the peak selling periods and often before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. As such, we carry a significant amount of inventory before the holiday and back-to-school selling periods. Forecasting errors and changing customer buying behaviors may result in excess inventory, which may lead to markdowns and inventory valuation adjustments. Our business is sensitive to macro-economic conditions and consumer spending patterns Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable local, regional, national or international economic conditions, which can be impacted by factors including the effects of war, terrorism, natural disasters and widespread health concerns, or the threats thereof. Our business is also impacted by inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer confidence levels, consumer debt levels, changes in tax rates and tax policies, changes in gasoline prices and unemployment trends. Additionally, shifts in our customers’ discretionary spending to other goods, including music, entertainment and electronic products could also adversely affect our revenues and associated margins. Overall, we can provide no assurance on how these conditions will impact our business. We rely on a single distribution center We rely on one distribution center to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our stores. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution center due to natural disasters and severe weather, as well as events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures or other unforeseen causes could damage a significant portion of our inventory. These factors may also impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could ultimately increase our costs associated with our supply chain. We rely on foreign sources of production We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities directly. We depend on independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our merchandise. We source a large majority of our merchandise from foreign factories located primarily in East and Southeast Asia. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and conduct our business in U.S. dollars. We compete with many other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in that region. Changes in U.S. customs regulations may also occur unexpectedly and result in an overall increase in the cost of imported merchandise which may negatively impact our gross margins. Our business also faces a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, including: • political instability; • currency and exchange risks; • local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; • changes in trade restrictions, duties, tariffs or quotas; • international health concerns; • potential delays or disruptions in shipping and related pricing impacts; and • inability to meet our quality standards. 13 Table of Contents Our future performance will depend upon these factors, which are beyond our control. We source merchandise through our internal sourcing offices in Asia We source a portion of our merchandise through our offices in Asia, allowing us to bypass agents, brokers and middlemen and establish and develop direct relationships with contract manufacturers and reduce our sourcing costs. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our selling margins may decrease which could negatively impact our profitability as a business. We intend to increase our direct sourcing efforts in the future; however, we can provide no assurance that this will be profitable. We utilize ports to import our products from Asia We currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. If a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia by air freight or to alternative shipping destinations in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. Similarly, shipping to alternative destinations in the United States could lead to increased lead times and costs on our products. A disruption at ports through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are pursuing a strategy of international expansion We currently have licensed stores in certain Middle Eastern and Scandinavian countries and expect to expand into other countries in the future. In addition to the general risks associated with doing business in foreign markets, as stated above, we run the risk of not being able to sustain our growth in these international markets or to penetrate new international markets in the future. As we penetrate these markets, there is increased risk of not fully complying with existing and future laws, rules and regulations of countries where we conduct business. As with any future business strategy, we can provide no assurance that our current and future international endeavors will be successful. We will need to comply with existing and new laws and regulations that govern us Various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations including, for example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, much of our girlcare and lifestyle merchandise is subject to various regulations promulgated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. A significant change in the regulatory environment applicable to our operations or merchandise could increase our costs associated with compliance including increased product costs resulting from any new regulations. Further, as we expand our merchandise assortment and increase the number of our suppliers to accommodate our growth, it may become more difficult or costly to comply with existing and new regulations, which could reduce margins and profits. We rely on our manufacturers to enforce ethical labor practices We require our independent manufacturers to operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to them. Our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, but we have limited control over their business and labor practices. We also rely on an independent third party to periodically audit factories producing our goods. If an independent manufacturer violates or is suspected of violating labor laws or other applicable regulations, or if a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices divergent from those typically acceptable in the United States, we could, in turn, experience negative publicity or possible litigation. Negative publicity or legal actions regarding the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, sales, business, and financial position. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to service our debt We may be unable to service the debt drawn under our credit facilities and/or any other debt we may incur. Additionally, the agreements related to such debt require us to maintain certain financial ratios which limit the total amount we may borrow, and also prohibit certain types of liens on property or assets. The inability to service our debt could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations, as well as affect our ability to borrow additional funds. We are implementing new information systems We continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our information technology systems for merchandise planning, inventory management, supply chain point of sales (cash registers), real estate, finance and human resources. Upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with current and industry-accepted successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. We believe we are taking appropriate actions to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies are in place. The launch of these replacement systems will take place in a phased approach over an approximate five to six year period that began in 2005. In 2007, we implemented new financial systems and replaced our real estate systems. We can provide no assurance the implementation process will be successful or will occur as planned and without disruptions to operations. Information technology system disruptions could affect our ability to monitor and track our business performance. Our business may be harmed if our computer network security is compromised Despite our considerable efforts and technological resources to secure our computer network, security could be compromised and confidential information relating to our customers could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. This could lead to negative publicity, legal actions, loss of sales and profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for possible damages. We may be a party to legal proceedings that could result in unexpected outcomes and have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving employment issues and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit alleging, among other things, violations of federal securities laws. (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”) We evaluate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities, when appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell We have in the past and may in the future need to recall products that we determine may present safety issues. If products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No such unresolved comments exist. 15 Table of Contents 