Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. These statements are intended to highlight the material risk factors that may affect our business results, however these risks are not the only ones we face, and additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations in the future 16 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006Back to Contents Risks related to our Business Our primary source of revenue is the vertical markets, or embedded industrial applications, for wireless communication between machines, which are nascent markets. If these markets do not develop at the rate we anticipate, or if we are unable to successfully penetrate these markets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. In September 2004, we announced that our company would focus exclusively on the vertical markets, or embedded industrial applications, for wireless communication between machines, targeting wireless applications in three areas: Automotive, industrial Machine-to-Machine and mobile professional applications. The applications to which we sell our products are extremely fragmented and no single sub-application shows signs that it will expand more quickly than the others. Therefore, the timing of the development of these markets, which will be critical for our success in the future, is not, at this time, well defined. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and commercial resources than we do and we believe they can invest greater resources in our sector than we can afford. It has been our experience that our competitors exert price pressure to increase their market share and we face a variety of competitors in the vertical markets both at the local and on the global level. If we are unable to maintain or expand our share of the vertical markets in both, volume and value, our revenues may not grow at the rate we anticipate, or they may decline. In addition, it is possible that we could eventually face a situation in the vertical markets similar to that which we faced in the mobile handset market when prices for competing solutions decreased significantly and we were unable to continue to offer our products at competitive prices. If this risk, or the other risks described above, were to materialize, both our revenues and earnings could stagnate or suffer declines. As a result, we may not generate sufficient revenues to cover our operating expense base, and we may therefore operate at a loss. Our long sales cycle may result in substantial fluctuations in revenue from quarter to quarter which makes corporate planning difficult. The time between the first contacts with a customer, a design win, and the first sale may be long, in particular in the automotive area, since design times and safety certifications for new models take several years. Our typical sales cycle is generally from 6 to 18 months and can be up to two or three years for some customers. In addition, the timing of our sales is often linked with the timing of the launch of our customers’ new products. Any slippage in the launch of a customer’s product, or cancellation of pending orders could delay the timing of our related product sales. Consequently, we face difficulties in predicting the quarter in which expected sales to customers will occur, if at all, and we may incur substantial expenses in relation to expected product sales far in advance of the actual sales and receipt of revenue. In addition, our customers’ ability under certain circumstances to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchasers of components from third-parties to match customer changes in delivery dates or cancellations. If the ecosystem for wireless-enabled machines does not develop we may not find adequate markets for our products and thus not achieve our growth targets. The ecosystem for wireless-enabled, communicating machines consists of four main types of players. First are the technology providers, like us, who provide the core wireless technology using all major wireless standards. A category of value-added distributors and design houses play a role in conceptualizing, creating and designing end-products. Next, the manufacturers who also conceive, create, design and produce a broad range of wireless-enabled devices. Finally, there are the wireless network operators and virtual wireless operators which provide the “air time” to transmit data to end users. If any one of these players does not develop at the same pace as the others, the markets as a whole will have difficulty developing and may in turn keep us from reaching our growth targets. The wireless communication market in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing and increasingly complex technologies and we must constantly balance the need to keep pace with new trends with our interest in not overspending on uncertain and unproven technologies. The markets in which we sell our wireless solutions are regularly developing new types of products and new versions of existing products. To be competitive, manufacturers who purchase our solutions for use in their end-products must satisfy market demand at market prices. To meet our customers’ needs, we must continuously update and enhance our products, WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 17Back to Contents shortening their life cycles so that they meet the latest standards and include up-to-date features for a wide variety of applications. To develop these enhancements, new designs and technologies, we must spend time and significant amounts of money on research and development. These investments are generally made before commercial viability for the resulting products can be sufficiently proven. In addition, some of our technology is forward-looking and offers functionalities which are significantly advanced compared to current market standards and which may not have ready market applications or the ability to achieve market acceptance. There are no assurances that we will achieve net positive earnings from our new products or that they will be commercially successful, particularly if we misjudge a market’s readiness for our products or miss a product life-cycle window. We may lose market share if our competitors, most of which are larger and have greater resources than we do, are more successful or faster than we are in updating and improving products and technology and timing product releases with market demand. From a technology standpoint, we face competition from both alternative wireless, and non-wireless technologies. Wireless technologies can be roughly characterized as WAN (Wide Area Network) which includes GSM, CDMA, OFDM, UWB, WiMAX followed by WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network) i.e. WiFi and finally PAN (Personal Area Networks) such as Bluetooth or Zigbee. Non-wireless technologies are those which are used to provide mirroring functionality but via a fixed (wired) network such as the fixed line telephone network (PSTN), LAN Ethernet or a more specific M2M example such as PLC (Power Line Control) which is used in the Automatic Meter Management market. If any of these competing technologies becomes the technology of choice in one or more of our target market segments while we have decided not to adopt those technologies, we could lose significant market share in the applicable segment(s). We began to perform more services work on a contingent fixed-price basis, which has associated risk that the work-product may not be accepted when finally delivered and therefore we may not be paid for our time or the cost of our labor may be more than we receive in revenues. Customer demand for fixed-price and/or turnkey service engagements is increasing and we are accepting more service work on a fixed-price basis. Typically, we perform the work for fixed-price services at our expense, and receiving payment for the work performed is contingent on the customer’s acceptance of the work-product that we deliver at certain intervals, called milestones, or at the end of the engagement. If the customer does not accept all or part of the work-product that we deliver, we may not receive some or all of the anticipated revenues to offset the costs incurred in performing the engagement, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, net profit and financial condition. In addition, the risks associated with these engagements include the possibility that we could poorly manage the engagement and not conduct the work in the most cost effective manner. Further, because the fee that is charged for these engagements is determined at the outset, we could underestimate the amount of work that will be required and the engagement could actually result in a loss. Moreover, we could lose other more profitable opportunities because we are required to commit significant resources to fixed price service engagements which may turn out to be unprofitable. As the vertical markets for wireless communication between machines evolve, current or future market participants, including ourselves, may seek to consolidate their resources, which could create significant financial and/or competitive stresses for our company. As the vertical markets for wireless communications between machines evolve, current or future market participants may seek to consolidate their resources to create more competitive or commercially effective units. Such industry consolidation may lead to a bid for the acquisition of our business by another group, in which case our shareholders may not be able to benefit from our future long-term development. It is also possible that we will be excluded from an industry consolidation, in which case our competitors may grow stronger and gain increased market share. In light of the nascent nature of the vertical markets and we may be subject to financial and/or competitive stresses resulting from industry consolidation, and we cannot be certain as to our future position in the industry. If we fail to vigorously protect our intellectual property, our competitive position may suffer. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to develop and protect proprietary technology used in our products. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and employee and third party non-disclosure and assignment agreements. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that 18 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006Back to Contents the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that result in costly litigation and could harm our business and ability to compete. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, as well as frequent claims and related litigation regarding these patents and other intellectual property rights. We may be involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity of property rights of others, or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. In the event of claims of infringement against our customers with respect to technology used in our products, we may be required to indemnify our customers, which could be very costly. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. A successful claim of infringement against us with respect to our products could harm our business and result in significant cash expense to us to cover litigation costs. We may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability and once again suffer operating losses which could lead to a decline in our stock price. After two years in 2003 and 2004 of posting operating losses, 2005 and 2006 were profitable following the implementation of a major strategic reorientation and corporate restructuring under the direction of new senior management announced in September 2004. These events and actions led us to exit from the mobile telephone handset market and terminate our silicon chipset development. With our new strategy in place, we have centered our business exclusively on the market for wireless communication between machines. If we are unable to reestablish business growth and maintain the gross margin at the levels we saw for Wavecom historical business or if our operating expenses exceed current levels, we may once again suffer operating losses. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our strategy to increase our revenue and expand our product base, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, assets or technologies that would complement our current business, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our strategic capabilities. Future acquisitions that we may make or joint ventures that we may enter into with other companies, could require us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or require us to issue equity securities that could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Other potential acquisitions that we may make, or joint ventures that we may enter into, entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; • the diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; • risks associated with the transfer of rights and licenses of intellectual property; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • the potential impairment of related goodwill and intangible assets. Most of our products are manufactured by Solectron Corporation, and if Solectron is unable to meet our requirements for any reason, or our agreement with Solectron should terminate, we could experience significant difficulty arranging for a suitable replacement at reasonable cost. In October 2003, we decided to concentrate all contract manufacturing for wireless CPU®s with a single contract manufacturer. We chose Solectron, a global electronics contract manufacturer, using its plant in Suzhou, China. In the second quarter of 2005 we completed concentrating the production of our wireless CPU®s at this site. Following the acquisition of the Sony-Ericsson M2M business in the second quarter of 2006, we began working with three new manufacturing partners in Mexico and Taiwan. Only one of these three, Elcoteq in Mexico, will continue to manufacture significant quantities of products for us in 2007. WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 19Back to Contents Solectron, however, remains the main manufacturer of our wireless CPU® products. Our reliance on a single primary manufacturer increases the risks that we could encounter delays related to manufacturing or supply problems at some point in the future. Using one primary contract manufacturer we are necessarily dependent on this single primary supplier who assembles and tests our components and our products. Our primary manufacturer has other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of our supply, manufacturing, assembly and testing needs during periods of peak demand. Our contract manufacturers may experience financial difficulties, or delays or disruption to production, or may fail to meet our specified requirements, notably our quality standards. In addition, a financial or political crisis in China, or geographic catastrophe such as an earthquake, or a change in the political climate making China less receptive to foreign businesses, could also disrupt our supply of manufactured products or increase costs. Our manufacturing agreement with Solectron provides for termination in a strictly limited and precisely defined number of cases. In case of termination, a six-month exit management plan would be implemented to transition production back to us or to another contract manufacturer. However, the transition to another manufacturing sub-contractor would be complex and would require substantial investment of management, as well as possibly financial, resources. In the event any of the risks described above materialize and prevent us from delivering our products to our customers on a timely basis, we could lose a portion of our business temporarily or on a long-term basis, be subject to customer contract penalties and incur substantial costs to establish a new contract manufacturing relationship. Quality issues, such as errors in the software used in our products, could result in significant losses to us or our customers thus damaging our reputation or increase the potential for product liability claims against us. We may face quality issues affecting either the hardware or the software in our products. Software frequently contains undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Several of our products utilize unproven or evolving technologies that may contain defects or other quality or performance problems. Some of these defects may be latent, or only triggered by very specific events, and undiscoverable through advance testing and may only surface following widespread use by customers. Accordingly, errors might still be found in our products and product upgrades for some time following release. Should problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key launch dates or delivery dates to our customers. Defects may also cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, and divert the time and attention of our engineering personnel from our new product development efforts. The discovery of these per formance problems or defects could result in significant losses to our customers, who may subject us to indemnity or product liability claims in addition to causing customer relationship issues, and reduced market acceptance of our products. Significant defects could require product replacement or recalls or we could be obligated to accept product returns. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales agreements with our customers frequently contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability and other claims due to unforeseen errors in software. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our sales agreements may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. For example, liability for claims for personal injury (e.g. in the consumer automotive context) cannot be contractually disclaimed or limited in the United States. We currently have limited insurance against product liability risks or errors and omissions coverage, and there can be no assurance that the current levels of insurance coverage are adequate or that additional insurance will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A product liability claim or claim for economic loss brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales and operating results could be adversely affected if the third parties on whom we rely for the supply of our components are unable to meet our supply or quality requirements. We believe that a number of our suppliers are sole sources for key components. These key components are complex and difficult to manufacture and require long lead times. We work with our suppliers on a twelve-month rolling forecast basis, however these forecasts are subject to change for many reasons frequently outside of our control. In the event of a reduction or interruption of supply, or decline in quality, it could take several months before we could begin receiving adequate supplies from alternative sources. Supply interruptions could delay product shipments, causing our revenues to decline and operating results to suffer. 20 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006Back to Contents Our profitability could be hurt if the prices of our key components increase or if they are no longer available. Over the past 5 years, we experienced declining or stable prices for most of the key components we use in our products. It is possible that these trends could reverse and that we could see component prices increase. The hardware platforms that we sell are made up of components that are made by manufacturers other than us. If our suppliers decide to discontinue manufacturing specific components, we may have to redesign our products, thus adding unplanned development costs. If either of these situations occurs, our cost structure could change, thus limiting our ability to maintain competitive pricing and making it more difficult to continue to be profitable. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between our reporting currency, the euro, and the U.S. dollar can affect our net sales and costs. Although our functional currency is the euro, a significant portion of our revenues and assets are recorded in U.S. dollars. At the same time, most of our components are purchased in U.S. dollars, and a portion of our operating expenses is in U.S. dollars. The value of the euro remained relatively stable against the dollar throughout 2005. If the euro strengthens against the U.S. dollar as we saw in 2004, it could reduce our reported revenues and could negatively affect our reported operating and net results. We incurred a net foreign exchange loss of €1.9 million in 2006 compared to a foreign exchange gain of €4.1 million in 2005 and a net foreign exchange loss in 2004 of €578,000. We may incur foreign exchange losses again in the future. Beginning in January 2003, we put in place a program to hedge our currency risk through the use of forward contracts and put and call options covering expected net cash flows in U.S. dollars. This program is not able to cover a sudden change in the currency rate or a significant change in our business. The objective of this program is to minimize our risk, but we will never be able to eliminate the risk. Our costs may increase or we may have to redesign our products if they infringe other companies’ intellectual property rights. Other companies have patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights covering technology used in the wireless communications industry. Although we have entered into appropriate intellectual property licenses permitting us to use the intellectual property rights of third parties, if any of our products, including products we may acquire, were found to infringe protected technology, we could be required to redesign them, to obtain further intellectual property licenses or to pay royalties or damages to the owner of the technology. The resulting costs would harm our business. If we were unable to obtain these licenses or to redesign our products to make them non-infringing, we could be prohibited from marketing the relevant products. We need to attract, retain and develop key personnel who are skilled in our business and technology to remain competitive. It is important to our success that we retain our highly skilled product development, sales, marketing and other key employees, including senior management, and continue to attract and motivate additional skilled employees. We rely to some extent on independent contractors who work for consulting firms. If we fail to attract, hire or retain appropriately qualified personnel, we could experience delays in our research and development projects or our product roll-outs, which could affect our ability to bring new products to market successfully or on a timely basis. We may experience difficulties or encounter unknown liabilities with respect to the acquisition of assets from Sony Ericsson during 2006. On April 26, 2006 we completed the acquisition of certain assets from Sony Ericsson’s M2M Communications business unit. This acquisition was a cash transaction of €30 million (excluding acquisition costs). We cannot predict how successful the business we acquired will ultimately be. An acquisition can also result in unanticipated legal risks, legal costs and liabilities costs or liabilities not accounted for. These factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and may deter our ability to execute on our business strategy. WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 21Back to Contents Concentrated ownership of shares by two of our founding shareholders could significantly influence shareholder votes or affect the price of our common stock At March 31, 2007, two of our founding shareholders who are also members of our board of directors own interests of 11% and 13%, respectively, of our outstanding shares as of such date. The influence over shareholder votes of significant shareholders may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, or otherwise have the ability to control shareholder decisions. In addition, any programs by these shareholders to dispose of a substantial amount of their shares in the open market could have an adverse impact on the market for our common shares. As a result of our global operations, we are exposed to numerous risks, including logistical difficulties, cultural differences, product localization costs, import and tariff restrictions and adverse foreign tax consequences. We have principal operational locations in France, the United States and Hong Kong. We do business globally using an extensive distributor network. Directly or indirectly, we are selling in more than 115 countries on all continents, and our manufacturing is subcontracted in China. Worldwide operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • the need to track and monitor tariffs, duties, export controls and other trade barriers; • the impact of unexpected changes in regulatory requirement and applicable laws; • the burden of monitoring and complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • political and economical instability, which tends to be a more significant risk in the countries where we currently outsource manufacturing; • potential adverse tax consequences; • longer payment cycles for sales in certain foreign countries; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • disease and related quarantines; • cultural differences; and • aggressive competition from companies based in countries which do not protect intellectual property rights to as great an extent as those of the United States and France Our products are subject to environmental regulations, most significantly those in the EU and China. The Republic of China has adopted directives that will come into effect in March 2007 and which will prohibit the manufacture and sale, within the republic of China, of products containing hazardous substances, including lead, in excess of certain predetermined levels. We have been working toward decreasing the lead content of our products in order to reach levels that comply with these directives on a timely basis and anticipated regulations in our major markets. If, however, our products do not meet the hazardous substance limitations when such limitations come into effect, we may be prohibited from selling our products in China and we could suffer a loss of revenues for an indefinite period if customers should decide to redesign their products to remove our non-compliant products. As a result, we may lose potential revenues. In addition, the process of designing our products to meet these restrictions could significantly increase our development costs, thus reducing our profitability. In addition, any supply of products that infringe applicable environmental laws may subject us to penalties, customer litigation or governmental sanctions, which may result in financial harm to us. Business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. A number of factors, including natural disasters, computer viruses or failure to successfully upgrade and improve operational systems to meet evolving business conditions, could disrupt our business, which could seriously harm our revenues or financial conditions and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our headquarter office in Paris is located in potential flood zones that could subject these facilities and associated computer systems to disruption. 22 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006Back to Contents The requirement to expense stock options in our income statements has had a significant adverse effect on our reported results and we expect this negative impact to continue in the near future. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”). SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. We adopted this new standard on January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective method. The adoption as of January 1st, 2006, on a prospective basis, of SFAS 123R’s fair value method had an impact of approximately 2.1 million euros on our result of operations reported for fiscal 2006 due to the compensation charges reflected. We expect the effect of SFAS 123 to continue to have a negative impact on our reported results of operations for the near future. Our quarterly revenues fluctuate significantly, which makes forecasting difficult and can significantly impact our planning process. Our revenues and operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include: • any delay in our introduction of new products or product enhancements; • the size and timing of customer orders and our product shipments; • any delay in shipments caused by component shortages or other manufacturing problems; • the loss of a major customer or a reduction in purchases by a major customer; • a reduction in the selling price of our products; • the size, timing and structure of significant license sales; • customer responses to announcements of new products and product enhancements by our competitors; • foreign exchange rate fluctuations, primarily between the euro and the U.S. dollar; and • the booking of one-time, non-recurring expenses such as restructuring or acquisition costs. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations have in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future and quarterly comparisons may not be reliable indicators of future performance. Because many of our expenses for personnel, facilities and equipment are relatively fixed in nature, we may not be able to reduce expenses quickly to balance an extended decline in our revenues and could experience net losses during these periods. In addition, quarterly fluctuations may have a negative effect on the price of our shares and ADSs, and a corresponding negative impact on public perception and customer and investor confidence. Changes in accounting principles may affect our reported earnings and operating income We currently report in both U.S. generally-accepted accounting principals (GAAP) and, since January 1, 2005, in IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards), instead of French GAAP. The applicable U.S. GAAP and IFRS accounting standards and related interpretations are highly complex and continue to evolve. The reporting requirements may be contradictory and subject to inconsistent interpretation. We review our compliance with all new and existing accounting rules and pronouncements on an ongoing basis. Depending on the outcome of these ongoing reviews, the evolution of our business model and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, particularly with respect to revenue recognition or stock-based compensation, we may be required to modify our accounting policies and business practices which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial reporting. Our current accounting policies are descri bed in Item 18 and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Adherence to technical requirements or legal regulations, such as section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may increase our cost base and dilute our resources. The implementation of new technical requirements, environmental or legal regulations, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act under U.S. securities laws, or the requirement to report in IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards instead of French GAAP, may require greater investment in and use of resources than have already been anticipated. This could WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 23Back to Contents ultimately place significant strains on our organization, increase our cost base and dilute our internal resources currently devoted to general financial and reporting activities. If, despite our efforts, we are unable to comply with these new laws and standards in the mandated timeframes, or if we encounter deficiencies, or if our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, we may experience a loss of confidence by the market, or a declining stock price, either of which could harm our reputation and results of operations. Our U.S. shareholders could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company (PFIC). If, for any taxable year, the portion of our income characterized as “passive” or of our assets that produce “passive” income exceeds levels established under U.S. federal income tax regulations, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are subject to U.S. taxation. U.S. persons should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our shares or our ADSs. Depending on our operating results and balance sheet situation, we may be characterized as a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2006, or for future years. Holders of our shares have limited rights to call shareholders’ meetings or submit shareholder proposals which could adversely affect their ability to participate in the governance of our company. In general, our Board of Directors may call a meeting of our shareholders. A shareholders’ meeting may also be called by a liquidator or a court appointed agent, in limited circumstances, such as at the request of the holders of 5% or more of our outstanding shares held in the form of ordinary shares. Only shareholders holding a defined number of shares held in the form of ordinary shares or groups of shareholders holding a defined number of voting rights underlying their ordinary shares may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. The minimum number of shares required depends on the amount of the share capital of our company and is equal to 777,707 (5% of 15,554,153) ordinary shares based on our share capital as of December 31, 2006. Similarly, a duly qualified association, registered with the AMF Autorité des Marchés Financiers (French stock market authority) and us, of shareholders who have held their ordinary shares in registered form for at least two years and together hold at least a defined percentage of our voting rights, equivalent to 777,707 (5% of 15,554,153) ordinary shares based on our company’s voting rights as of December 31, 2006, may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. As a result, the ability of our shareholders to participate in and influence the governance of our company will be limited. Provisions of our articles of association and French law could have anti-takeover effects and could deprive shareholders who do not comply with such provisions of some or all of their voting rights. Provisions of our articles of association and French law may impede the accumulation of our shares by third parties seeking to gain a measure of control over our company. For example, French law provides that any individual or entity (“person”), acting alone or in concert with others, that becomes the owner or ceases to be the owner of more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 1/3, 50%, 2/3, 90%, 95% of the share capital or voting rights of our company is required to notify (i) our company and (ii) the AMF by registered letter (with return receipt) within five trading days of crossing such thresholds. The AMF makes the notice public. Additionally, any person acquiring more than 10% or 20% of the share capital or voting rights of our company must notify us and the AMF within 10 trading days of crossing any of these thresholds and file a statement of their intentions relating to future acquisitions or participation in the management of our company for the following 12-month period, includin g whether or not this person is acting alone or in concert and whether or not they intend to continue their purchases to acquire control of our company or to seek nominations to our board of directors. This person may amend their stated intentions, provided that they do so, on the basis of significant changes in their own situation or stockholding. Upon any changes of intentions, they must file a new statement. The AMF makes these statements public. Any shareholder who fails to comply with these requirements shall have voting rights for all shares in excess of the relevant threshold suspended for two years following the completion of the required notification. Moreover, this shareholder may have all or part of its voting rights within our company suspended for up to five years by the relevant commercial court at the request of our chairman, any of our shareholders or the AMF. In addition, such shareholders may be subject to fines for violation of the share ownership notification requirement and for violation of the notification requirement regarding the statement of intentions. Under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs 24 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006Back to Contents (American Depository Shares), if a holder of ADSs fails to instruct the depositary in a timely and valid manner how to vote such holder’s ADSs with respect to a particular matter, the depositary will deem that such holder has given a proxy to the chairman of the meeting to vote in favor of each proposal recommended by our board of directors and against each proposal opposed by our board of directors and will vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs accordingly. This provision of the depositary agreement could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of our company. Interests of our shareholders will be diluted if they are not able to exercise preferential subscription rights for our shares. Under French law, shareholders have preferential subscription rights (droits préférentiels de souscription) to subscribe for issuances of new shares or other securities with preferential subscription rights, on a pro rata basis, such purchases to be paid in cash. Shareholders may waive their right specifically in respect of any offering, either individually or collectively, at an extraordinary general meeting. Preferential subscription rights, if not previously waived, are transferable during the subscription period relating to a particular offering of shares and may be quoted on the exchange for such securities on Euronext Paris S.A. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise preferential subscription rights for these shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. If these preferential subscription rights cannot be exercised by holders of A DSs, we will make arrangements to have the preferential subscription rights sold and the net proceeds of the sale paid to such holders. If such rights cannot be sold for any reason, we may allow such rights to lapse. In either case, the interest of holders of ADSs in our company will be diluted, and, if the rights lapse, such holders will not realize any value from the granting of preferential subscription rights. It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to exercise some of their rights as shareholders. It may be more difficult for holders of our ADSs to exercise their rights as shareholders than it would be if they directly held our ordinary shares. For example, if we offer new ordinary shares, and a holder of our ADSs has the right to subscribe for a portion of them, the Bank of New York, as the depositary, is allowed to sell for such ADS holder’s benefit that right to subscribe for new ordinary shares of our company instead of making it available to such holder in its own discretion. Also, to exercise their voting rights, holders of our ADSs must instruct the depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for a holder of our ADSs than it would for holders of our ordinary shares. Fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro may cause the price of our ordinary shares to deviate from the price of our ADSs. Our ADSs trade in U.S. dollars and our ordinary shares trade in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro may result in temporary differences between the value of our ADSs and the value of our ordinary shares, which may result in trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences, which could adversely impact the trading opportunities for other shareholders. We have not distributed dividends to our shareholders in the past nor do we intend to in the near future. We currently intend to use all of our operating cash flow to finance the development of our business for the foreseeable future. We have never distributed cash dividends to our shareholders, and we currently have no plan to distribute cash dividends. If we distribute a portion of our earnings as dividends to shareholders in the future, the determination of whether to declare dividends and, if so, the amount of such dividends will be based on facts and circumstances existing at the time of determination. Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to generally volatile securities markets, and the volatility in the telecommunications and technology companies’ securities markets in particular. Factors other than our financial results that may affect our share price include, but are not limited to, market expectations of our performance, capital spending plans of our customers, the level perceived growth of the industries in which we participate and any perceived need for us to raise additional capital through the sale of securities. Any future sale of equity or convertible securities we may consider could depress our stock price. WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 25Back to Contents We may have difficulty in accessing capital to grow the business if we are unable to obtain short-term bank loans in the future. At some point in the future, we may have need for short-term financing in order to continue to grow our business. If we are unable to obtain a traditional bank loan, due to a decline in our credit rating or due to the unwillingness of a bank to make a business loan, we may have to seek alternative financing that could be both difficult and expensive. The banking practices in France are different from traditional banking practices in other countries, like the United States for example, and obtaining a traditional bank loan is often difficult and may carry a very high interest rate. 26 WAVECOM – Annual Report Form 20-F 2006 Back to Contents Item 