Item 1A. Risk Factors The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Blockbuster Inc. The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC and in our reports 7 Table of Contents to stockholders. Generally, the words, “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. All statements addressing events that we expect to occur in the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. The forward-looking statements are and will be based upon our then current views and assumptions regarding future events, and speak only as of their respective dates. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Because the proceeds from the Asset Sale did not exceed the amounts we owe our creditors, our stockholders will receive no value for their common and preferred stock and our creditors will receive substantially less than payment in full for their claims. As further described above, we sold substantially all of our cash and non-cash assets to DISH in the Asset Sale as part of the Chapter 11 Cases. Under the distribution scheme previously approved by the Bankruptcy Court, our creditors are generally entitled to receive all proceeds of the Asset Sale before our stockholders are entitled to receive any such proceeds. Since the proceeds of the Asset Sale are substantially less than our pre-petition liabilities, holders of our secured and unsecured debt will receive substantially less than payment in full for their claims and our stockholders will receive no value for their shares of common and preferred stock as part of the Chapter 11 Cases or in connection with any Chapter 7 liquidation. Our Class A and Class B common stock continue to be quoted on the Pink Sheets even though our stockholders will not receive any value for their shares of common stock as part of the Chapter 11 Cases and our corporate existence will be terminated and our common and preferred stock cancelled once we have completed distribution of the proceeds of the Asset Sale. Our Class A and Class B common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange in July 2010 and since then has been quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbols “BLOAQ” and “BLOBQ,” respectively. As discussed above, under the priority distribution scheme previously approved by the Bankruptcy Court, our stockholders will receive no value for their shares of common and preferred stock as part of the Chapter 11 Cases and our corporate existence will be terminated once we have completed the distribution of the proceeds of the Asset Sale to our creditors. Accordingly, even though our common stock continues to be quoted on the Pink Sheets, our common stock has no value and our stockholders should not view the trading activity of our common stock on the Pink Sheets or any other market or trading platform as being indicative of the value our stockholders will receive as part of the Chapter 11 Cases or in connection with any Chapter 7 liquidation. We have been involved in the Chapter 11 Cases since the third quarter of fiscal 2010, which has resulted in steady attrition among key management and employees, and which may have adversely affected our internal control over financial reporting. This has contributed to our inability to timely prepare our financial statements reflecting the changes brought about as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases and file this Form 10-K. In addition, as previously, disclosed, on May 6, 2011 we announced the departure of substantially all of the Company Board of Directors and the Company’s Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer, and the consolidation of those two offices in the Company’s sole remaining employee. The departing individuals were important to 8 Table of Contents our financial reporting and control process, and their departure has led to material adjustments to the way in which we prepare and report financial information subsequent to the date of the audited financial statements included in this form 10-K, including our ability to maintain an Audit Committee fully constituted in compliance with NYSE listing standards and SEC regulations. As a result of the significant changes in our workforce composition, management structure and operational efficiencies occurring in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, particularly since the end of our fiscal year 2010 on January 2, 2011, management has identified the following changes in our internal control over financial reporting: • The Chapter 11 Cases have resulted in the loss of key Company personnel and required substantial effort from our limited management personnel and support staff, and contributed to our inability to timely file this Form 10-K on a timely basis, and the reduction of our finance and executive management resources has also potentially impacted supervision and review and management oversight processes, as well as segregation of duties processes; and • The Chapter 11 Cases, the cessation of our operations following the DISH Sale, our substantial workforce reductions, and the departure of the majority of our Board of Directors contributed to our inability to maintain appropriate oversight of our operational and financial activities as well as corporate governance, including an Audit Committee fully constituted in compliance with NYSE listing standards and SEC regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 