ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors, as well as other factors of which we may be unaware or do not currently view as significant, could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Our future revenue is unpredictable, and we expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the evolving nature of the markets in which we compete and the size of our customer agreements, we have difficulty accurately forecasting our revenue in any given period. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations, or those of stock market analysts and investors, or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • the relatively long sales cycles for many of our products; • the timing of our new products or product enhancements or any delays in such introductions; • the delay or deferral of customer implementation of our products; • changes in customer budgets and decision making processes that could affect both the timing and size of any transaction; • reduced spending in the industries that license our products; • our dependence on large deals, which, if such deals do not close, can greatly impact revenues for a particular quarter; • the timing, size and mix of orders from customers; • the deferral of license revenue to future periods due to the timing of the execution of an agreement or our ability to deliver the products; • the impact of our provision of services and customer-required contractual terms on our recognition of license revenue; • any unanticipated difficulty we encounter in integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies; • the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter or our fiscal year in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our operations and the evaluation of strategic transactions; and • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and tax accounting, including accounting for uncertain tax positions. A substantial portion of our product license orders are usually received in the last month of each fiscal quarter, with a concentration of such orders in the final two weeks of the quarter. While we typically ship product licenses shortly after the receipt of an order, we may have license orders that have not shipped at the end of any given quarter. Because the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any, of such orders at the end of a particular quarter is not a reliable predictor of our future performance. Because it is difficult for us to predict our quarterly operating results, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. If, as a result of these difficulties, our revenues and operating results do not meet the expectations of our investors or securities analysts or fall below guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock may decline. 6 Table of Contents Uneven growth and periods of contraction in the infrastructure software market have caused our revenue to decline in the past and could cause our revenue or results of operations to fall below expectations in the future. We earn a substantial portion of our revenue from licenses of our infrastructure software, including application integration software and sales of related services. We expect to earn substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future from sales of this software and the related services. Our future financial performance will depend on continued growth in the number of organizations demanding software and services for application integration and information delivery and companies seeking outside vendors to develop, manage and maintain this software for their critical applications. Lower spending by corporate and governmental customers around the world, which has had a disproportionate impact on information technology spending, has led to a reduction in sales in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Many of our potential customers have made significant investments in internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to third-party products, which may substantially inhibit the growth of the market for infrastructure software. If the market fails to grow, or grows more slowly than we expect, our sales will be adversely affected. Also, even if corporate and governmental spending increases and companies make greater investments in information technology and infrastructure software, our revenue may not grow at the same pace. Our success depends on our ability to overcome significant competition. The market for our products and services is extremely competitive and subject to rapid change. We compete with a variety of large and small providers of infrastructure software, SOA, business optimization and BPM, including companies such as IBM, Oracle, Pegasystems, Progress Software, SAP, and Software AG. We also face competition for certain aspects of our product and service offerings from major systems integrators, and our customers have alternatives to our proprietary software from open source software providers that provide software and intellectual property, typically without charging license fees, or from other competitors offering products through alternative business models, such as software as a service. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition, and larger customer bases than we do. This may allow our present or future competitors to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. For example, some of our competitors offer products outside our segment and routinely bundle these products with their infrastructure software products. Additionally, some of our competitors are expanding their competitive product offerings and strengthening their market position through acquisitions and increases in capital expenditures for internal research and development. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets or against existing and future competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategy contemplates future acquisitions that may result in our incurring unanticipated expenses or additional debt, difficulty in integrating our operations and dilution to our stockholders and may harm our operating results. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We expect to acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future as part of our corporate strategy. In this regard, we have made the following acquisitions during fiscal year 2010 – OpenSpirit Corporation, Proginet Corporation, Kabira Technologies, Inc., Netrics.com, Inc. and Foresight Corporation, and we also acquired Loyalty Lab, Inc. in December 2010. We do not know if we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, operate it profitably or retain its key employees. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or technology could be expensive and time-consuming, could disrupt our ongoing business and financial performance and could distract our management. Therefore, we may not be able, either immediately post-acquisition or ever, to replicate the pre-acquisition 7 Table of Contents revenues achieved by companies that we acquire or achieve the benefits of the acquisition we anticipated in valuing the businesses, products or technologies we acquire. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired companies in international transactions can be particularly high, due to local laws and regulations. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entity, products or technology effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results would suffer. In addition, any amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation or other charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could harm our operating results. In addition, we may face competition for acquisition targets from larger and more established companies with greater financial resources. Also, in order to finance any acquisition, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings or use our cash reserves. In that event, we could be forced to obtain equity or debt financing on terms that are not favorable to us or that result in dilution to our stockholders. Use of our cash reserves for acquisitions could limit our financial flexibility in the future. The terms of existing or future loan agreements may place limits on our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. If we are not able to acquire strategically attractive businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to remain competitive in our industry or achieve our overall growth plans. We may not be able to achieve our key initiatives and grow our business as anticipated. While we currently intend to grow our business by pursuing key initiatives to: broaden our product platform through internal development and acquisitions; increase our sales capacity by expanding our direct sales organization and developing our channel partnerships; expand our product offerings to new vertical markets; and employ marketing programs to increase awareness of our company and our products among existing and prospective customers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve on these key initiatives. Our success depends on our ability to: appropriately manage our expenses as we grow our organization; identify or acquire companies or assets at attractive valuations; enter into beneficial channel relationships; develop new products; and successfully execute our marketing and sales strategies. If we are not able to execute on these actions, our business may not grow as we anticipated, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property or proprietary rights could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation and could harm our business and results of operations. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success. Accordingly, we rely upon a combination of copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secret rights, patents, confidentiality agreements and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property. Despite these protections, a third party could misappropriate our intellectual property. Any misappropriation of our proprietary information by third parties could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary information as do the laws of the United States. If our proprietary information or material were misappropriated or challenged, we might have to engage in litigation to protect it. We might not succeed in protecting our proprietary information if we initiate intellectual property litigation, and, in any event, such litigation would be expensive and time-consuming, could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and could seriously harm our business. Claims by others that our products may infringe their intellectual property rights may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that certain of our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, our use of open source software components in our products may make us vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, in particular because many of the open source software components we may incorporate with our products may be developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. “Open source software” is software that is covered by a 8 Table of Contents license agreement which permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software, typically free of charge. Further, because patent applications in the United States and many other countries are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, applications covering technology used in our software products may have been filed without our knowledge. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. Our software license agreements typically provide for indemnification of our customers for intellectual property infringement claims. Intellectual property litigation, with or without merit, is expensive and time consuming, could cause product shipment delays and could divert our management’s attention away from running our business and seriously harm our business. If we were to discover that our products violated the intellectual property rights of others, we would have to obtain licenses from these parties, which could require the payment of royalty or licensing fees, in order to continue marketing our products without substantial reengineering. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, and if we could not obtain such licenses, we might not be able to reengineer our products successfully or in a timely fashion. If we fail to address any infringement issues successfully, we would be forced to incur significant costs, including damages and potentially satisfying indemnification obligations that we have to our customers, and we could be prevented from selling certain of our products. We may not be able to successfully offer products and enhancements that respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ needs. If we are not successful in developing enhancements to existing products and new products in a timely manner, achieving customer acceptance for our existing and new product offerings or generating higher average selling prices, our gross margins may decline, and our business and operating results may suffer. Furthermore, any of our new product offerings or significant enhancements to current product offerings could cause some customers to delay making new or additional purchases while they fully evaluate any new offerings we might have introduced to the market, which in turn may slow sales and adversely affect operating results for an indeterminate period of time. Also, we may not execute successfully on our product plans because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before us and loss of market share, net sales and earnings. Our stock price may be volatile, which could cause investors to incur significant losses. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. Some of the factors that may affect our common stock price other than our operating results include: • uncertainty about current global economic or political conditions; • general volatility in the capital markets; • business developments by us or our competitors, including material acquisitions or dispositions and strategic investments; • industry developments and announcements by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • changes in the accounting rules. During fiscal year 2010, our stock price has fluctuated between a low of $8.23 and a high of $20.20. If market or industry-based fluctuations continue, our stock price could decline in the future regardless of our actual operating performance and investors could incur significant losses. 9 Table of Contents We operate internationally and face risks attendant to those operations. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations. As a result of these sales operations, we face a variety of risks, including: • local political and economic instability; • tariffs, quotas and trade barriers and other varying regulatory or contractual requirements or limitations; • compliance with international and local trade, labor and other laws including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), the recently enacted UK Bribery Act of 2010 (which is scheduled to become effective in April 2011 and is broader in scope than the FCPA) and export control laws; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • managing our international operations; and • longer payment cycles, collecting receivables in a timely fashion and repatriating earnings. Any of these factors, either individually or in combination, could materially impact our international operations and adversely affect our business as a whole. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. In addition to receiving revenue and incurring expenses in U.S. dollars, we also receive revenue and incur expenses in approximately twenty foreign currencies. Our revenue, expenses and net income are impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations against the U.S. dollar. For example, customers in foreign countries may incur higher costs due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, which could result in a delay of payments or a default on credit extended to them. Any material delay or default in our collection of significant accounts could have a negative result on our results of operations. Additionally, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar could require us to offer discounts, reduce pricing or offer other incentives to mitigate any negative effects on demand from such rise in the U.S. dollar. Further, in the event that the U.S. dollar weakens compared to foreign currencies, we may incur higher operating expenses in those locations and, therefore, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts, the majority of which mature within approximately one month, in an effort to manage our exposure from changes in value of certain foreign currency denominated net assets and liabilities. Our foreign currency forward contracts are intended to reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. In addition, our hedging program may not reduce the impact of short-term or long-term volatility in foreign exchange rates. Accordingly, amounts denominated in such foreign currencies may fluctuate in value and produce significant earnings and cash flow volatility. Economic and market conditions have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our operating results. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economies. For example, the recent domestic and global economic downturn resulted in reduced demand for information technology, including enterprise software and services. The direction and relative strength of the global economy continues to be uncertain and makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. It is unknown how long the current conditions will persist or whether they will worsen. Information technology spending has historically declined as general economic and market conditions have worsened. During challenging and uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, many customers delay or reduce 10 Table of Contents technology purchases. Contract negotiations may become more protracted or difficult if customers institute additional internal approvals for technology purchases or require more negotiation of contract terms and conditions. If these economic conditions return, it could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and reductions in the rate at which our customers renew their maintenance agreements and procure consulting services. Continued increases in consulting and training services revenue may decrease overall margins. We have historically realized, and may continue in the future to realize, an increasingly high percentage of our revenue from services, which has a lower profit margin than license or maintenance revenue. As a result, if consulting and training services revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue, our overall profit margin may decrease, which could impact our stock price. If we cannot successfully recruit, retain and integrate highly skilled employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. If we fail to retain and recruit key management, sales and other skilled employees, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. As we grow, we must invest significantly in building our sales, marketing and engineering groups. Competition for these people in the software industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. We are competing against companies with greater financial resources and name recognition for these employees, and as such, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet our hiring needs or hire the most qualified candidates. The success of our business is also heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel, including Vivek Ranadivé, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued operations. In addition, we must successfully integrate new employees into our operations and generate sufficient revenues to justify the costs associated with these employees. If we fail to successfully integrate employees or to generate the revenue necessary to offset employee-related expenses, we may be forced to reduce our headcount, which could force us to incur significant expenses and could harm our business and operating results. The inability to upsell to our current customers or the loss of any significant customer could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We do not have long-term sales contracts with any of our customers. Our customers may choose not to purchase our products or not to use our services in the future. As a result, a customer that generates substantial revenue for us in one period may not be a source of revenue in subsequent periods. Any inability on our part to upsell to and generate revenues from our existing customers or the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business and operating results. The use of open source software in our products may expose us to additional risks. Certain open source software is licensed pursuant to license agreements that require a user who distributes the open source software as a component of the user’s software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. This effectively renders what was previously proprietary software open source software. As competition in our markets increases, we must strive to be cost-effective in our product development activities. Many features we may wish to add to our products in the future may be available as open source software and our development team may wish to make use of this software to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. While we carefully monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party has incorporated certain types 11 Table of Contents of open source software into its software but has failed to disclose the presence of such open source software and we embed that third party software into one or more of our products, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our product. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. Market acceptance of new platforms, standards and technologies may require us to undergo the expense of developing and maintaining compatible product solutions. Our software products can be licensed for use with a variety of platforms, standards and technologies, and we are constantly evaluating the feasibility of adding new platforms, standards and technologies. There may be future or existing platforms, standards and technologies that achieve popularity in the marketplace which may not be architecturally compatible with our software products. In addition, the effort and expense of developing, testing and maintaining software products will increase as more platforms, standards and technologies achieve market acceptance within our target markets. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our software products or adapt to new platforms, standards and technologies, our sales and revenues will be adversely affected. Developing and maintaining different software products could place a significant strain on our resources and software product release schedules, which could harm our revenue and financial condition. If we are not able to develop software for accepted platforms, standards and technologies, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if the platforms, standards and technologies we have developed software for are not accepted, our license and service revenues and our gross margins could be adversely affected. Any unauthorized, and potentially improper, actions of our personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recognition of our revenue depends on, among other things, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We have implemented policies to help prevent and discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel negotiate terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or verbal, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate revenue for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may incur impairments to goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets. We review our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, a decline in the market price of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business could indicate that goodwill, intangible or long-lived assets might be impaired. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our market capitalization is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results. Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill, we would be 12 Table of Contents required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our revenues and our operating results. Our debt agreements contain certain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our debt agreements contain, and any other future debt agreement we enter into may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including, in each case subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to: • incur indebtedness; • incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; • grant liens; • enter into certain mergers or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • make certain payments on our equity, including paying dividends; • make investments; • change our business; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • enter into certain restrictive agreements. In addition, our debt agreements contain financial covenants and additional affirmative and negative covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants for any reason and we have debt outstanding at the time of such failure, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the credit facilities would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay any outstanding debt, depending on the amount of debt outstanding, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. Any losses we incur as a result of our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and partners could harm our results of operations. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. As we have grown our revenue and customer base, our exposure to credit risk has increased. Any material losses we incur as a result of customer defaults could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our income tax returns are routinely subject to audits by tax 13 Table of Contents authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine our tax estimates, a final determination of tax audits or tax disputes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, on December 1, 2009, we adopted revised accounting guidance for business combinations which requires acquisition related costs to be expensed as incurred, restructuring costs generally to be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition date, in-process research and development to be capitalized as an intangible asset with an indefinite life, and changes in accounting for deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the measurement period, which will impact income tax expense. The impact the guidance will have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows will be dependent on the number and size of business combinations that we consummate subsequent to the adoption of the standard, as well as the valuation and allocation of the net assets acquired. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal control and financial reporting environment. If management identifies any material weaknesses, their correction could require remedial measures which could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the presence of material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors which in turn could require us to restate our operating results. Any identification by us or our independent registered public accounting firm of material weaknesses, even if quickly remedied, could damage investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could affect our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. The continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be sure that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure compliance with Section 404. Any failure by us to comply with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, which could reduce our stock price. The outcome of litigation pending against us could require us to expend significant resources and could harm our business and financial resources. Note 13 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the litigation pending against us and our directors and officers. The uncertainty associated with 14 Table of Contents substantial unresolved lawsuits or future lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. The defense of the lawsuits could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Negative developments with respect to the lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the current lawsuits or any future lawsuit by settlement or otherwise, any such payment could seriously harm our financial condition and liquidity. Our software may have defects and errors that could lead to a loss of revenues or product liability claims. Our products and platforms use complex technologies and, despite extensive testing and quality control procedures, may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. If defects or errors are discovered after commercial release of either new versions or enhancements of our products and platforms: • potential customers may delay purchases; • customers may react negatively, which could reduce future sales; • our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; • we may have to defend against product liability claims; • we may be required to indemnify our customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers or other resellers; • we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and • we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects and errors, which may result in the delay of new product releases or upgrades. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues, incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. Any failure by us to meet the requirements of current or newly-targeted customers may have a detrimental impact on our business or operating results. We may wish to expand our customer base into markets in which we have limited experience. In some cases, customers in different markets, such as financial services or government, have specific regulatory or other requirements which we must meet. For example, in order to maintain contracts with the United States government, we must comply with specific rules and regulations relating to and that govern such contracts. Government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. If we fail to meet such requirements in the future, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability or a reduction of revenue which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Aspects of our business are subject to privacy concerns and a variety of U.S. and international laws regarding data protection. Aspects of our business are subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. For example, in the United States regulations such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (as amended or supplemented), which protects and restricts the use of consumer credit and financial information, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (as amended or supplemented), which regulates the use and disclosure of personal health information, impose significant requirements and obligations on businesses that may affect the use and adoption of our service. The European Union has also adopted a data privacy directive that requires member states to impose restrictions on the collection and use of personal data 15 Table of Contents that, in some respects, are far more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States. We post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in California, a seismically active region. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in a few geographic areas. A natural disaster in one of these regions could have a material adverse impact on our U.S. and foreign operations, operating results and financial condition. Further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as our stockholder rights plan, may have anti-takeover effects. We have a stockholder rights plan providing for one right for each outstanding share of our common stock. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase certain securities at a specified purchase price. The rights plan may have the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire TIBCO on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of the rights plan could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, provisions of our current certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 