Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. A discussion of the risks associated with these factors is included below. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, which are the material risks currently known by us, and other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 8 Risks Related to Our Business We have had a history of net losses and could incur net losses in the future. Except for net income of $20.9 million in 2006, and $0.5 million in 2005, we have incurred net losses every year since 1993 including net losses of $15.5 million, $6.9 million, and $29.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We have an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.0 billion. Current market conditions around residential real estate make it difficult to project if we will become consistently profitable in the future. Furthermore, we have been making significant changes to our organizational structure and our business models. While these changes are being implemented with the belief that they will strengthen our business and our market position in the long run, there can be no assurance that these changes will generate additional revenue or a more efficient cost structure, which will be needed to return to profitability. Competition for our services might adversely impact our business. Our existing and potential competitors include web sites offering real estate related content and services as well as general purpose online services, and traditional media such as newspapers, magazines and television that compete for advertising dollars. The real estate search services market, which is the primary market in which we operate, is becoming increasingly competitive. A number of competitors have emerged or intensified their focus on the real estate market. These competitors include Classified Ventures, LLC (operator of HomeGain.com), Dominion Enterprises (operator of Homes.com), Google Inc., Market Leader, Inc. (formerly HouseValues Inc.), Primedia Inc. (operator of NewHomeGuide.com), Tree.com, Inc. (operator of LendingTree.com and RealEstate. com), Trulia, Inc., Yahoo! Real Estate and Zillow, Inc. In the rentals market these competitors include Classified Ventures, LLC (operator of Apartments.com and ApartmentHomeLiving.com), Dominion Enterprises (operator of ForRent.com), Network Communications Inc. (operator of ApartmentFinder.com), Primedia Inc. (operator of ApartmentGuide.com, Rentals.com and RentalHouses.com) and Viva Group, Inc. (an eBay company and operator of Rent.com). Additional competitors operate general interest consumer web sites that offer home, moving and finance content and include Living Choices (a division of Network Communications, Inc.) and ServiceMagic, Inc. (a division of InterActive Corp). The barriers to entry for web-based services and businesses are low. In addition, parties with whom we have listing and marketing agreements could choose to develop their own Internet strategies or competing real estate sites. Furthermore, real estate brokers or other website operators, due to evolving policies, rules, regulatory initiatives, conventions and strategies (for example, the NAR’s policies concerning virtual office web sites (“VOWs”)), might be able to aggregate listing data for display over the Internet in ways comparable to, or more effective than, the REALTOR.com® web site. Developments such as these could impact how consumers and customers value our content and product offerings on the REALTOR.com® web site. Also, developments in the real estate search services market might also encourage additional competitors to enter that market. Some of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name recognition, larger consumer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. The rapid pace of technological change constantly creates new opportunities for existing and new competitors and it can quickly render our existing technologies less valuable. We cannot predict how, if at all, our competitors or others might respond to our initiatives. We also cannot provide assurance that our offerings will be able to compete successfully against our competitors or new competitors that enter our markets. We might not be able to obtain more, or more current, listings from MLSs and real estate brokers than other web site operators, and we might not be able to successfully syndicate listings content beyond our own web sites. We believe that part of the success of REALTOR.com® depends on displaying a larger and more current database of existing homes for sale than other web sites. We obtain these listings through agreements with MLSs and real estate brokers; these agreements normally have fixed terms, typically 12 to 36 months. At the end of the term of each agreement, the MLS or broker could choose not to renew the agreement with us. There are no assurances the MLSs and brokers will continue to renew their agreements to provide listing data to us. If they 9 choose not to renew their relationship with us, then REALTOR.com® could become less attractive to consumers, and thus less attractive to our advertising customers. Furthermore, due to available technology and evolving policies, rules, regulatory initiatives, conventions and strategies in the real estate industry (as mentioned above), web site operators might be able to aggregate, and keep current, listing data for display over the Internet in ways comparable to, or more effective than, the REALTOR.com® web site. As we invest time, effort and resources toward developing syndication models for disseminating listing content beyond REALTOR.com® and our other web sites, MLSs, brokers and others could choose to withhold or withdraw listings or cooperation from those initiatives. This could cause us to fail to realize fee, advertising and other revenue from these efforts, or to sufficiently do so, could cause us to fail to realize a return, or an adequate return, on those investments and could prevent us from being able to develop and grow our syndication business. Poor execution could harm our business, reputation, profitability and growth. Although we have significant advantages that help us compete effectively, we might fail to plan, execute, integrate, manage and leverage new systems developments, new product launches, new web site features, our partnering ventures, newly-acquired businesses and assets, the building and nurturing of our brands, brand awareness and our general reputation, new resource allocations and other current and new operational initiatives in a savvy, timely, efficient and cost-effective manner. For example, we might fail to achieve effective coordination of various functions and teams within the Company so that projects and initiatives are executed effectively and timely. Failures such as these could harm our competitive position, increase our costs, cause us losses, cause us to fail to realize a return, or a sufficient return, on our investment outlays, cause operational disruptions and difficulties, damage or limit profitability and growth prospects, limit our ability to make needed investments in our business, harm our reputation, limit our ability to attract consumers and customers and limit our ability to sustain and increase revenue. Although the relative market position of our network of web sites is an advantage, we might be unable to interest a sufficient number of new advertisers to purchase advertising presence on our web sites, or we might fail to retain advertisers who do purchase advertising from us. These circumstances could adversely affect revenue, growth and profitability, could prevent us from effectively monetizing the advertising potential of our web sites, and could limit our ability to make additional investments in our business. Although our customer support function is a valuable asset to our business, we might make errors in executing, or fail to effectively manage, our customer support function. This could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, harm customer relationships and diminish interest in, loyalty to and use of our web sites, products and services. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and might vary significantly in the future. We have made significant investments in our businesses and incurred restructuring charges as we have made adjustments to our business model. As we modify our business models, we could experience a decline in quarterly revenue. If revenue from our initiatives fall below our expectations, we might not be able to reduce our spending or change our pricing models rapidly in response to the shortfall. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and include: the level at which real estate agents, brokers and rental owners renew the arrangements through which they obtain our services; a continued, or renewed, downturn in, or a slow (rather than speedy) recovery of, the residential real estate market and the consequent impact on advertising; the amount of advertising sold on our web sites and the timing of payments for this advertising; and the costs from litigation, including the cost of settlements and any damages awarded against us. 10 The mortgage, real estate, financial and credit markets have been in, and continue to experience, severe disruption, which have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continuing U.S. and global financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis could impact our business in a number of ways. In addition, changes in governmental participation in the mortgage market could impact the residential real estate industry, which could negatively impact our business. The U.S. residential real estate market has been in, and remains under, a significant downturn due to downward pressure on housing prices, credit constraints inhibiting home buyers, foreclosures, and an exceptionally large inventory of unsold homes. We cannot predict when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to normal conditions. Until market conditions improve significantly, our customers’ ability and willingness to advertise, or to continue to advertise, on our web sites could be adversely impacted. We are, and might continue to be, involved in litigation and other disputes. Our business and operations might subject us to claims, litigation and other proceedings brought by private parties and governmental authorities. We are currently involved in several matters, which are described in Note 21, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 in this Form 10-K. Litigation might also result from other companies owning or obtaining patents or other intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our products and services. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, including in the Internet industry, and companies in the Internet market are increasingly making claims alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We have been in the past, and are currently, involved in intellectual property-related litigation, and we might be involved in these and other disputes in the future, whether to protect our own intellectual property or as a result of our alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Lawsuits or claims such as these, including those we are currently defending, might result in significant monetary damages against us that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Moreover, even those disputes that are ultimately resolved in our favor are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and they divert management’s time and attention. In addition to subjecting us to monetary damages, the threat, adjudication or settlement of any intellectual property dispute could force us to do one or more of the following: stop making, selling, incorporating or using goods, services or technology that are (or allegedly are) impacted by the relevant intellectual property rights threatening or asserted against us; pay significant sums to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property rights; and redesign goods, services or technology that are (or allegedly are) impacted by the intellectual property rights threatening or asserted against us. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, such actions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Pursuant to our operating agreement with NAR or to our agreements with others, we might also be required to indemnify NAR and other third parties for costs, damages and other liabilities arising from the infringement or alleged infringement of third parties’ actual or asserted intellectual property rights, and these indemnification obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. 11 We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights. We regard substantial elements of our web sites and underlying technology as proprietary. Despite our precautionary measures, third parties might copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information, web content or technology without authorization, or to develop similar material independently. Any legal action that we might bring or other steps we might take to protect this property could be unsuccessful, expensive and distract management from day-to-day operations. Other companies might own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent or limit or interfere with use of the brands, names or trademarks we use. The REALTOR.com® web site address and trademark and the REALTOR® trademark are important to our business and are licensed to us by NAR. If we were to lose the REALTOR.com® domain name or the use of either of these trademarks, our business would be harmed and we might need to devote substantial resources toward developing an independent brand identity. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses and related technology and assets are uncertain and evolving, and we can give no assurance regarding the future strength, weakness, viability or value of any of these rights. Our Series B Preferred Stock could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. In November 2005, we sold to Elevation Partners, L.P. and Elevation Employee Side Fund, LLC (together, “Elevation”) an aggregate of 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Participating Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. For so long as the holders of Series B Preferred Stock hold at least one-sixth of these 100,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, we are generally not permitted, without obtaining the consent of holders representing at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, to create or issue any equity securities that rank senior or on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation. In addition, our stockholders agreement with Elevation limits the amount of debt we can incur. If we need to raise additional capital through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements to execute our business plan, we would be restricted in the type of equity securities that we could offer and the amount of debt we can incur without the consent of Elevation. We cannot offer any assurances that we would be able to obtain that consent. If we were unable to obtain Elevation’s consent, we might not be able to raise additional capital in the amounts needed to fund our business or on terms that are desirable. Although we entered into an agreement to redeem a portion of the Series B Preferred Stock in February 2011 (see the disclosure regarding the redemption in Note 23, “Subsequent Events” to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K), Elevation still holds sufficient shares to exercise veto rights. Our relationship with the NAR is an important part of our business plan and our business could be harmed if we were to lose the benefits of this relationship. The REALTOR.com® trademark and web site address and the REALTOR® trademark are owned by NAR. NAR licenses these trademarks to our subsidiary RealSelect under a license agreement, and RealSelect operates the REALTOR.com® web site under an operating agreement (including amendments) with NAR. Our operating agreement with NAR contains restrictions on how we can operate the REALTOR.com® web site. For example, we can only enter into agreements with entities that provide us with real estate listings, such as MLSs, on terms approved by NAR. In addition, NAR can require us to include on REALTOR.com® real estate related content that it has developed. Our operating agreement with NAR also contains a number of provisions that restrict how we operate our business. For example: we would need to obtain the consent of NAR if we want to acquire or develop another service that provides real estate listings on an Internet site or through other electronic means; any consent from NAR, if obtained, could be conditioned on our agreeing to conditions such as paying fees to NAR or limiting the types of content or listings on our web sites or other services or other terms and conditions; 12 we are restricted in the type and subject matter of advertisements on the REALTOR.com® web site; NAR has the right to approve how we use its trademarks, and we must comply with its quality standards for the use of these marks; and we must meet performance standards relating to the availability time of the REALTOR.com® web site. NAR also has significant influence over our corporate governance, including the right to have one representative as a member of our board of directors (out of a current total of eight) and two representatives as members of our RealSelect’s subsidiary’s board of directors (out of a current total of nine). RealSelect also cannot take certain actions, including amending its certificate of incorporation or bylaws, pledging its assets and making changes in its executive officers or board of directors, without the consent of at least one of NAR’s representatives on its board of directors. Although the REALTOR.com® operating agreement is a perpetual agreement, NAR might terminate it for a variety of reasons. These include: the acquisition of us or RealSelect by another party without NAR’s consent; if traffic on the REALTOR.com® site falls below 500,000 unique users per month; a substantial decrease in the number of property listings on our REALTOR.com® site; and a breach of any of our other obligations under the agreement that we do not cure within 30 days of being notified by NAR of the breach. If our operating agreement with NAR were terminated, we would be required to transfer a copy of the software that operates the REALTOR.com® web site and provide copies of our agreements with advertisers and data content providers, such as real estate brokers or MLSs, to NAR. NAR would then be able to operate the REALTOR.com® web site itself or with another third party. In addition to limitations and risks of the kind set forth above, our business relationship with NAR could erode, become strained or otherwise develop adversely or non-amicably. This could arise from poor management of the relationship, existing or new areas of conflict or potential conflict between our interests and NAR’s interests, changes in the real estate industry or from other causes. Adverse circumstances such as these could result in significant erosion of or damage to our business since, among other reasons, many of our customers and data providers are members of, have interests that are closely aligned with or are otherwise influenced by or inclined favorably toward the NAR. We must dedicate significant resources to market our subscription products and services to real estate professionals. Real estate agents are generally independent contractors rather than employees of brokerages. As a result, it is often necessary for us to communicate with agents on an individual basis when marketing our services to them. This results in relatively high fixed costs associated with our inside and field-based sales activities. In addition, since we offer services to both real estate brokerages and agents, we are often required to contact brokerages and agents separately when marketing our products and services. Our future success depends largely on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of key employees would likely have a significantly detrimental effect on our business. Several of our key senior management have employment agreements that we believe will assist in our ability to retain them. However, many other key employees do not have employment agreements. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and geographical locations can be intense. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel with experience in the real estate industry, a complex industry that requires a unique knowledge base, is an additional challenge for us. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, retaining and motivating a sufficient number of qualified employees to conduct our business in the future. The loss of services of any of our key 13 personnel, excessive turnover of our work force, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel might have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our net operating loss carry forwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. At December 31, 2010, we had gross net operating losses carry forwards (“NOLs”) for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $930.9 million and $388.8 million, respectively, and we could generate NOLs in future years. The federal NOLs will begin to expire in 2018. Approximately $2.6 million of the state NOLs expired in 2010 and the state NOLs will continue to expire from 2011 to 2029. Gross net operating loss carry forwards for both federal and state tax purposes might be subject to an annual limitation under relevant tax laws. Currently, the NOLs have a full valuation allowance recorded against them. Approximately $150 million of the $930.9 million federal NOLs may belong to members of our group that cannot be consolidated for federal income tax purposes. Consequently, those NOLs would not be available to us to offset taxable income in the future. The NOLs indicated above are subject to a full valuation allowance. Utilization of the NOLs may also be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that might have occurred, or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), as well as similar state limitations. These ownership changes may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually to offset future federal taxable income. Section 382 of the Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50 percentage points of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOLs and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules impact any ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, our ability to use our NOLs and to recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to the limitations under Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOLs could expire before we would be able to recognize the benefit of using them. Our inability to utilize our NOLs could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our operating agreement with NAR, other agreements with business partners, and our stockholders agreement with Elevation could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our stockholders are unable to act by written consent or to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors. Our stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders for any purpose, including removing any director or the entire Board of Directors without cause. Certain terms of the Series B Preferred Stock could also discourage a third party from acquiring us. Upon a change in control, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase all of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for total cash consideration generally equal to 101% of the liquidation preference plus, under certain circumstances, 101% of a portion of the dividends which would have accrued had the Series B Preferred Stock remained outstanding. In addition, NAR could terminate the REALTOR.com® operating agreement if we are acquired and they do not consent to the acquisition. 14 Real Estate Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the strength of the real estate industry, which is both cyclical and seasonal and is affected by general economic conditions. The real estate industry traditionally has been cyclical. Economic swings in the real estate industry might be caused by various factors. When interest rates are high or general national and global economic conditions are or are perceived to be weak, there is typically less sales activity in real estate. A decrease in the current level of sales of real estate and products and services related to real estate could adversely affect demand for our products and services. In addition, reduced traffic on our web sites could cause our subscription and advertising revenue to decline, which would adversely affect our business. During recessionary periods, there tends to be a corresponding decline in demand for real estate, generally and regionally, that could adversely affect certain segments of our business. Such adverse effects often include a general decline in rents and home values (and thus sales prices), a decline in leasing activity, a decline in the level of investments in, and the value of, real estate, and an increase in defaults by tenants under their respective leases and home-owners on their respective mortgage loans. All of these adverse effects, in turn, adversely affect our customers’ revenue from rents, property management fees, brokerage commissions and other fees; and these adverse effects on our customers’ revenue can influence our customers to reduce, suspend or stop their purchases of advertising and other products and services from us. Purchases of real property and related products and services are particularly affected by negative trends in the general economy. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and business spending, and the overall economy, as well as regional and local economic conditions in markets where we operate, including interest rates, taxation policies, governmental programs, availability of credit, employment levels, wage and salary levels and fears of terrorist attacks or threats of war. We could also experience seasonality in our business as we offer new products and new pricing models. The real estate industry, in most areas of the United States, generally experiences a decrease in activity during the winter months and traffic on our web sites generally declines during the fourth quarter, which can negatively affect revenue from our products that are directly tied to such traffic. We have risks associated with changing legislation in the real estate industry. Real estate is a heavily regulated industry in the U.S., including regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and state advertising laws. In addition, Congress and the states could enact legislation or regulatory policies in the future, which could require us to expend significant resources to comply. These laws and related regulations might limit or restrict our activities. As the real estate industry evolves in the Internet environment, legislators, regulators and industry participants might advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives. Should existing laws or regulations be amended or new laws or regulations be adopted, we might need to comply with additional legal requirements and incur resulting costs, or we might be precluded from certain activities. For instance, our Move® Rentals business required us to qualify and register as a real estate agent/broker in the State of California. To date, we have not spent significant resources on lobbying or related government issues. Any need to significantly increase our lobbying or related activities could substantially increase our operating costs. Internet Industry Risks Systems failures could harm our business. We might sustain temporary or permanent outages of our computers or software equipment, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have not experienced any catastrophic outages to date, we currently do not have fully redundant systems for our web sites and other services at an alternate site. Therefore, our systems are vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes 15 and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage, while adequate to replace assets and compensate for losses incurred, might not be adequate to compensate for the disruption it causes our customers and consumers, which could affect our future revenues and traffic. We also might have instances of single points of failure in our networks, processes and systems, and this could result in our sustaining outages, or outages of excessive duration, as well as other disruptions in our web sites or to our business. Experienced computer programmers seeking to intrude or cause harm, or hackers, might attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any catastrophic security breaches to date, if a hacker were to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our services, dilute the value of our offerings to customers and damage customer relationships. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also might not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or other harmful code or files could expose us to system damage, operational disruption, loss of data, litigation and other risks of loss or harm. We depend on continued performance of and improvements to our computer network. We could sustain failures of our computer systems. Such failures could cause interruption or slower response time of our web sites or services and could therefore result in a smaller number of users of our web sites or the web sites that we host for real estate professionals. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our web sites to consumers and our subscription products and services to real estate professionals, providers of real estate-related products and services and other Internet advertisers. Increases in the volume of our web site traffic could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause the number of real property search inquiries, advertising impressions, other revenue producing offerings and our informational offerings to decline, any of which could hurt our revenue growth and our brand loyalty. We might need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if our systems cannot handle current or higher volumes of traffic. We might not be able to project accurately the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business, or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. We could face liability for information on our web sites and for products and services sold over the Internet. We provide third-party content on our web sites, particularly real estate listings. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this third-party content. Persons might assert, among other things, that by directly or indirectly carrying such content or providing a link to web sites operated by third parties, we should be liable for patent, copyright or trademark infringement, misappropriation, defamation, fair-housing law violations or other violations of laws, harms or wrongful actions resulting from or associated with such third-party content, links or web sites. They could also assert that such third-party content, links or websites lack needed disclosures or contain false statements, misrepresentations, errors or omissions. Consumers or others could seek damages and other recourse for losses incurred if they rely upon or are injured by such third-party content or websites, and regulators or others could seek fines and other recourse against us. We enter into agreements with other companies under which we share with them revenue resulting from activities such as advertising or the purchase of services through direct links to or from our web sites. These arrangements might expose us to additional legal risks and uncertainties, including local, state, federal and foreign government regulation and potential liabilities to actual or potential consumers of these activities and services, even if we do not ourselves perform the activities or provide the services. We cannot offer any assurance that any indemnification or other recourse promised to us in our agreements with these parties will be available or adequate. 16 Even if claims against us arising from or relating to these agreements do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. Our general liability insurance might not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and might not be adequate to indemnify us for all costs and liability that might be imposed or incurred. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 