Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business Changes to our product offerings on our new home and apartment web sites may not be accepted by our customers. In the past, we have charged homebuilders and rental owners to list their properties on our HomeBuilder.com® and RENTNET® web sites. When we launched the Move.comtm web site on May 1, 2006, we replaced our new home site, HomeBuilder.com®, and our apartment rental site, RENTNET®, with Move.comtm. In conjunction with this change, we began to display any new home and apartment listing for no charge. We seek revenue from enhanced listings, including our Showcase Listing and Featured Listing products, as well as other forms of advertising on the sites. We price subscriptions to Showcase Listings based on regional rate cards. Featured Listings, which appear above the algorithmically-generated search results, are priced on a fixed “cost-per-click” basis. We anticipate transitioning in the future to a real-time, auction based cost-per-click pricing for Featured Listings. When we launched the Move.comtm web site, existing listing subscription customers were transitioned into our new products having comparable value for the duration of their existing subscription. Although customers’ reaction 12 Table of Contents to these new products has been favorable, there can be no assurance that our current new home and apartment customers will continue to purchase these new offerings in amounts sufficient to both replace the listing subscription revenue we will be losing and provide a return on our costs and investments associated with our new brand and these new products. We have a history of net losses and could incur net losses in the future. Until recently, we had incurred net losses every year since 1993. Except for modest net income in 2005 and net income of $22.2 million in 2006, we incurred substantial operating losses including net losses of $7.9 million and $47.1 million, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.0 billion. Although our annual net losses have been decreasing and we anticipate becoming consistently profitable in the future, we announced our new Movetm brand and certain business model changes that required considerable investment with no assurances that our future financial performance will be enhanced by these new initiatives. Specifically, in February 2006, we introduced our new Movetm brand, under which we promote three consumer offerings: REALTOR.com®, Welcome Wagon®, and a new web site, Move.comtm, and on June 22, 2006, we changed our corporate name from Homestore, Inc. to Move, Inc. We will incur considerable costs in introducing and maintaining our new brand and there can be no assurances that these costs will produce the same or greater revenue than we have experienced in the past. Move.comtm, which we launched on May 2, 2006, replaced our Homestore.com®, HomeBuilder.com® and RENTNET® web sites. In the past, we have charged homebuilders and rental owners to list their properties on our HomeBuilder.com® and RENTNET® web sites. With the launch of Move.comtm, we provide the listings for no charge and offer enhanced listing products and traditional text advertisements. Pricing structures include a monthly fixed fee for our Showcase product and cost-per-click based pricing for the Featured Listing product. Due to the potential loss of revenue from paid listings that could result from our new pricing structures, our results of operations could be adversely affected, particularly through the end of 2007, as we continue to transition our customers to the new pricing model as well as other new products. In addition, over the longer term there can be no assurance that this new business model will produce sufficient revenue to cover the considerable investment we intend to make in these new initiatives or to replace the listings revenue. The emergence of competitors for our services may adversely impact our business Our existing and potential competitors include web sites offering real estate related content and services as well as general purpose online services, and traditional media such as newspapers, magazines and television that may compete for advertising dollars. The real estate search services market in which our Real Estate Services division operates is becoming increasingly competitive. A number of competitors have emerged, including RealEstate.com (a division of InterActive Corp), HouseValues.com, AgentConnect.com (a division of Next Phase Media, Inc.), HomeGain (a division of Classified Ventures, LLC), ApartmentGuide.com, Rent.com, ForRent.com, Apartments.com, NewHomeGuide.com, NewHomeSource.com and more recently Zillow.com, Trulia and Propsmart as well as general interest consumer web sites that offer home, moving and finance content, including ServiceMagic, Inc. (a division of InterActive Corp) and Gigamoves (a division of eBay). The barriers to entry for web-based services and businesses are low. In addition, parties with whom we have listing and marketing agreements could choose to develop their own Internet strategies or competing real estate sites. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name recognition, larger consumer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. The rapid pace of technological change constantly creates new opportunities for existing and new competitors and it can quickly render our existing technologies less valuable. Developments in the real estate search services market may also encourage additional competitors to enter that market. See “We may not be able to continue to obtain more listings from Multiple Listing Services and real estate brokers than other web site operators” below. We cannot predict how, if at all, our competitors may respond to our initiatives. We also cannot provide assurance that our new offerings will be able to compete successfully against these competitors or new competitors that enter our markets. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to obtain more listings from Multiple Listing Services and real estate brokers than other web site operators. We believe that the success of REALTOR.com® depends in large part on displaying a larger and more current listing of existing homes for sale than other web sites. We obtain these listings through agreements with MLSs that have fixed terms, typically 12 to 36 months. At the end of the term of each agreement, the MLS could choose not to renew their agreement with us. There are no assurances the MLSs will continue to renew their agreements to provide listing data to us. If they choose not to renew their relationship with us, then REALTOR.com® could become less attractive to consumers and thus, less attractive to our advertising customers. Internet Data Exchange (“IDX”) technology makes it possible for other real estate web site operators to display MLS or cooperating broker’s listings on their web sites. NAR has adopted guidelines for MLSs that allow a broker to prevent MLSs from providing such broker’s listing data to other brokers’ web sites. These guidelines do not apply to REALTOR.com®. In a civil antitrust lawsuit brought against NAR in 2005, the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) challenged this policy by alleging that it is in violation of federal antitrust laws. It is possible that the ultimate resolution of this antitrust case, or independent initiatives by large brokers or others, could make it easier for other web sites to aggregate listing data for display over the Internet in a manner comparable to REALTOR.com®. This could impact how consumers and customers value our content and product offerings on the REALTOR.com® web site. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future. We have made significant investments in our businesses and incurred significant sales and marketing expenses and plan to continue this as we develop our new brand, Movetm, and related new business initiatives. As we discontinue our paid inclusion model for new home and apartment listings and seek to replace that revenue with enhanced listing products and advertising offered under fixed fee, cost-per-click and auction pricing models, we could experience a decline in quarterly revenue. If revenue from these initiatives falls below our expectations, we will not be able to reduce our spending or change our pricing models rapidly in response to the shortfall. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and include: • the level at which real estate agents, brokers, homebuilders and rental owners renew the arrangements through which they obtain our services; • a continued downturn in the residential real estate market and the impact on advertising; • the amount of advertising sold on our web sites and the timing of payments for this advertising; and • the costs from pending litigation, including the cost of settlements. Continued obligations to Avis Budget Group, Inc. related to our settlement of our securities class action lawsuit could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We could be subject to potential claims by Avis Budget Group, Inc. (“Avis”) (formerly Cendant Corporation) for contribution or indemnity in connection with the securities class action lawsuit commenced against us following the December 2001 announcement of the discovery of accounting irregularities and the subsequent restatement of our 2000 and interim 2001 financial statements (the “Securities Class Action Lawsuit”). Although Avis was dismissed with prejudice as a defendant in the Securities Class Action Lawsuit, that dismissal was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (“Ninth Circuit”). On June 30, 2006, the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal, but remanded the case to the United States District Court, Central District of California (“District Court”) to determine whether it would be possible for the plaintiff to amend its complaint to state a claim against any of the dismissed defendants consistent with the Ninth Circuit’s opinion in the case. On December 19, 2006, the District Court denied plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint to state a claim against Avis and other defendants. On January 18, 2007, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of the District Court’s decision with the Ninth Circuit. If 14 Table of Contents Avis is subsequently found liable or settles the claims against it in the Securities Class Action Lawsuit, Avis will likely seek indemnification, contribution or similar relief from us. Although the settlement of the Securities Class Action Lawsuit, which became final on March 4, 2005, includes a bar order that may preclude Avis from seeking indemnification, contribution or similar relief from us in the event Avis is found liable or settles claims against it in the Securities Class Action Lawsuit, we have been advised by counsel that the law is unclear on whether Avis would be so precluded. Therefore, we would likely incur significant expenses in defending such an action by Avis and could ultimately be found liable to Avis or settle with Avis, notwithstanding the bar order. Such expenses, liability or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. In addition, if Avis is not permitted to share in the settlement of the Securities Class Action Lawsuit (which would be the case if its dismissal as a defendant is reversed on appeal), we have agreed to pay or otherwise provide to Avis the amount of money and/or other consideration that Avis would have been otherwise entitled to receive from that portion of the class action settlement fund provided by us had Avis been a class member and Avis’ proof of claim in respect of its shares had been accepted in full. At this time, Avis is still a member of the class and has not been excluded, but is one of the members of the class whose dismissal as a defendant is pending appeal. As such, Avis has not yet received any of the $13.0 million cash or 20.0 million shares of stock we paid in the settlement. We estimate that Avis could be entitled to receive approximately $2.3 million in cash and approximately 3.79 million shares from us should Avis be prevented from participating in the settlement. We could be required to expend substantial amounts in connection with continuing indemnification obligations to a purchaser of one of our businesses. As part of the sale in 2002 of our ConsumerInfo division to Experian Holdings, Inc. (“Experian”), $10.0 million of the purchase price was put in escrow to secure our indemnification obligations (the “Indemnity Escrow”). The Indemnity Escrow was scheduled to terminate in the third quarter of 2003, but prior to the scheduled termination, Experian demanded indemnification from us for claims made against Experian or its subsidiaries by several parties and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), including allegations of unfair and deceptive advertising in connection with ConsumerInfo’s furnishing of credit reports and providing “Advice for Improving Credit” that appeared on its web site both before, during and after our ownership of ConsumerInfo. Under the stock purchase agreement pursuant to which we sold ConsumerInfo to Experian, we could have elected to defend against the claims, but because the alleged conduct occurred both before and after our sale to Experian, we elected to rely on Experian to defend them. Accordingly, we have not made a complete evaluation of the underlying claims, but rather receive periodic updates from Experian and its counsel concerning their defense of the claims. The FTC action against Experian has now been resolved by stipulated judgment that requires, among other things, that refunds be made available to certain customers who purchased ConsumerInfo products during the period November 2000 through September 2003. We are unable to determine at this time the amount which we may be obligated to pay Experian under our indemnity obligations in connection with the FTC matter, or any other matter. Civil actions for which Experian demanded indemnification from us continue. Because those cases are continuing, the amounts to be paid by Experian arising from these actions for which Experian may seek indemnity from us cannot be reasonably estimated. We have received information from Experian concerning the total expenses incurred by Experian to date in connection with all matters for which they claim indemnity, but those amounts have not yet been substantiated, allocated or reduced by offsets that we may be entitled to under the indemnification agreement. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, our maximum potential liability for claims by Experian is capped at $29.25 million less the balance in escrow. We anticipate that Experian may seek to recover from us an amount in excess of the Indemnity Escrow amount, which was $7.9 million on December 31, 2006. 15 Table of Contents We are and may continue to be involved in litigation and other disputes. Our business and operations may subject us to claims, litigation and other proceedings brought by private parties and governmental authorities. We are currently involved in several matters, which are described in Note 21, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 in this Form 10-K. Litigation may also result from other companies owning or obtaining patents or other intellectual property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our products and services. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, including in the Internet industry, and companies in the Internet market are increasingly making claims alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We have in the past and are currently involved in intellectual property-related disputes, and we may be involved in these and other disputes in the future, to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others. Any such lawsuits, even if ultimately resolved in our favor, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property dispute could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to the relevant intellectual property; and • redesign those services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Pursuant to our operating agreement with NAR, we may also be required to indemnify NAR for liabilities arising from the infringement or alleged infringement of third parties’ intellectual property rights, and these indemnification obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. We rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights. We regard substantial elements of our web sites and underlying technology as proprietary. Despite our precautionary measures, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our proprietary information could be unsuccessful, expensive and distract management from day-to-day operations. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent or limit or interfere with use of the trademarks we use. The REALTOR.com® web site address and trademark and the REALTOR® trademark are important to our business and are licensed to us by NAR. If we were to lose the REALTOR.com® domain name or the use of these trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing an independent brand identity. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we can give no assurance regarding the future viability or value of any of these proprietary rights. Our recently issued Series B Preferred Stock could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. In November 2005, we sold to Elevation Partners, L.P. and Elevation Employee Side Fund, LLC (together, “Elevation”) an aggregate of 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Participating Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) for an aggregate purchase price of $100 million. For so long as the holders of Series B Preferred Stock hold at least one-sixth of these 100,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, we are generally not permitted, without obtaining the consent of holders representing at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, to create or issue any equity securities that rank senior or on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation. In addition, our stockholders agreement with Elevation limits the amount of debt we can incur. If we need to raise additional capital through public or private 16 Table of Contents financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements to execute our business plan, we would be restricted in the type of equity securities that we could offer and the amount of debt we can incur without the consent of Elevation. We cannot offer any assurances that we would be able to obtain that consent. If we were unable to obtain Elevation’s consent, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the amounts needed to fund our business or for terms that are desirable. Our relationship with the National Association of REALTORS® is an important part of our business plan and our business could be harmed if we were to lose the benefits of this agreement. The REALTOR.com® trademark and web site address and the REALTOR® trademark are owned by NAR. NAR licenses these trademarks to our subsidiary RealSelect under a license agreement, and RealSelect operates the REALTOR.com® web site under an operating agreement with NAR. Our operating agreement with NAR contains restrictions on how we can operate the REALTOR.com® web site. For example, we can only enter into agreements with entities that provide us with real estate listings, such as MLSs, on terms approved by NAR. In addition, NAR can require us to include on REALTOR.com® real estate related content that it has developed. Our operating agreement with NAR, as amended, also contains a number of provisions that restrict how we operate our business. For example: • we would need to obtain the consent of NAR if we want to acquire or develop another service that provides real estate listings on an Internet site or through other electronic means; any consent from NAR, if obtained, could be conditioned on our agreeing to conditions such as paying fees to NAR or limiting the types of content or listings on the web sites or service or other terms and conditions; • we are restricted in the type and subject matter of, and the manner in which we display, advertisements on the REALTOR.com® web site; • NAR has the right to approve how we use its trademarks, and we must comply with its quality standards for the use of these marks; and • we must meet performance standards relating to the availability time of the REALTOR.com® web site. NAR also has significant influence over our RealSelect subsidiary’s corporate governance, including the right to have one representative as a member of our Board of Directors (out of a current total of 11) and two representatives as members of RealSelect’s Board of Directors (out of a current total of 8). RealSelect also cannot take certain actions, including amending its certificate of incorporation or bylaws, pledging its assets and making changes in its executive officers or Board of Directors, without the consent of at least one of NAR’s representatives on its Board of Directors. Although the REALTOR.com® operating agreement is a perpetual agreement and it does not contain provisions that allow us to terminate, NAR may terminate it for a variety of reasons. These include: • the acquisition of us or RealSelect by another party without NAR’s consent; • if traffic on the REALTOR.com® site falls below 500,000 unique users per month; • a substantial decrease in the number of property listings on our REALTOR.com® site; and • a breach of any of our other obligations under the agreement that we do not cure within 30 days of being notified by NAR of the breach. If our operating agreement with NAR were terminated, we would be required to transfer a copy of the software that operates the REALTOR.com® web site and assign our agreements with data content providers, such as real estate brokers or MLSs, to NAR. NAR would then be able to operate the REALTOR.com® web site itself or with another third party. 17 Table of Contents We must dedicate significant resources to market our subscription products and services to real estate professionals. Real estate agents are generally independent contractors rather than employees of brokers and typically spend a majority of their time outside the office. As a result, it is often necessary for us to communicate with them on an individual basis. This results in relatively high fixed costs associated with our inside and field-based sales activities. In addition, since we offer services to both real estate brokers and agents, we are often required to contact them separately when marketing our products and services. A failure to establish and maintain strategic online relationships that generate a significant amount of traffic could limit the growth of our business. We have established strategic relationships with Internet portals that generate a significant amount of online traffic for our web sites. Failure to maintain these relationships and create new ones could limit the growth of our business. Although we expect that a significant portion of our online customers will continue to come to our web sites directly, we also continue to rely on third-party web sites with which we have relationships, including web sites operated by AOL, Yahoo!, MSN, Excite, iWon.com, Internet Broadcast Systems, United Online through its Juno and NetZero brands, and Google. We may also be required to pay significant fees to establish, maintain and expand our existing online relationships. As a result, our revenue may suffer if we fail to enter into new relationships or maintain existing relationships, or if these relationships do not result in online traffic sufficient to justify their costs. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our operating agreement with NAR, other agreements with business partners and a stockholders agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, we currently have a classified Board of Directors, although our certificate of incorporation has been amended to provide for the annual election of all directors beginning at our annual meeting of our shareholders in 2008. In addition, our stockholders are unable to act by written consent or to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors. Our stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders for any purpose, including to remove any director or the entire Board of Directors without cause. Certain terms of the Series B Preferred Stock could also discourage a third party from acquiring us. Upon a change in control, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase all of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for total cash consideration generally equal to 101% of the liquidation preference ($100 million plus all accrued and unpaid dividends) plus, under certain circumstances, 101% of a portion of the dividends which would have accrued had the Series B Preferred Stock remained outstanding. In addition, NAR could terminate the REALTOR.com® operating agreement if we are acquired and they do not consent to the acquisition. Real Estate Industry Risks Our business is dependent on the strength of the real estate industry, which is both cyclical and seasonal and is affected by general economic conditions. The real estate industry traditionally has been cyclical. Economic swings in the real estate industry may be caused by various factors. When interest rates are high or general national and global economic conditions are or are perceived to be weak, there is typically less sales activity in real estate. A decrease in the current level of sales of real estate and products and services related to real estate could adversely affect demand for our products and services. In addition, reduced traffic on our web sites could cause our subscription and advertising revenue to decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business. During recessionary periods, there tends to be a corresponding decline in demand for real estate, generally and regionally, that could adversely affect certain segments of our business. Such adverse effects typically are a general decline in rents and sales prices, a decline in leasing activity, a decline in the level of investments in, and the value of real estate, and an increase in defaults by tenants under their respective leases. All of these, in turn, adversely affect 18 Table of Contents revenue for fees and brokerage commissions, which are derived from property sales, annual rental payments, and property management fees which may or may not influence advertising. Purchases of real property and related products and services are particularly affected by negative trends in the general economy. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and business spending, and the overall economy, as well as regional and local economic conditions in markets where we operate, including interest rates, taxation policies, availability of credit, employment levels, wage and salary levels and fears of terrorist attacks or threats of war. We could experience seasonality in our business as we offer new products and new pricing models. The real estate industry, in most areas of the United States, generally experiences a decrease in activity during the winter months. We have risks associated with changing legislation in the real estate industry. Real estate is a heavily regulated industry in the U.S., including regulation under the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and state advertising laws. In addition, states could enact legislation or regulatory policies in the future, which could require us to expend significant resources to comply. These laws and related regulations may limit or restrict our activities. As the real estate industry evolves in the Internet environment, legislators, regulators and industry participants may advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives. Should existing laws or regulations be amended or new laws or regulations be adopted, we may need to comply with additional legal requirements and incur resulting costs, or we may be precluded from certain activities. For instance, RENTNET® was required to qualify and register as a real estate agent/broker in the State of California. To date, we have not spent significant resources on lobbying or related government issues. Any need to significantly increase our lobbying or related activities could substantially increase our operating costs. Internet Industry Risks Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted as a result of our move to a new data center or other problems. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, located at our corporate headquarters in Westlake Village, California and our technology facility in Phoenix, Arizona. During 2005, we began the process of upgrading a facility we have leased in Phoenix, Arizona, to which we relocated our Thousand Oaks data center operations during 2006. Temporary or permanent outages of our computers or software equipment could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have not experienced any material outages to date, we currently do not have fully redundant systems for our web sites and other services at an alternate site. Therefore, our systems are vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, earthquakes and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage, while adequate to replace assets and compensate for losses incurred, may not be adequate to compensate for the disruption it causes our customers and consumers, which could affect our future revenues and traffic. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we have not experienced any material security breaches to date, if a hacker were to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. We depend on continued improvements to our computer network. Any failure of our computer systems that causes interruption or slower response time of our web sites or services could result in a smaller number of users of our web sites or the web sites that we host for real estate 19 Table of Contents professionals. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our web sites to consumers and our subscription products and services to real estate professionals, providers of real estate-related products and services and other Internet advertisers. Increases in the volume of our web site traffic could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause the number of real property search inquiries, advertising impressions, other revenue producing offerings and our informational offerings to decline, any of which could hurt our revenue growth and our brand loyalty. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if our systems cannot handle current or higher volumes of traffic. We may not be able to project accurately the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business, or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. We could face liability for information on our web sites and for products and services sold over the Internet. We provide third-party content on our web sites, particularly real estate listings. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this third-party information. Persons might assert, among other things, that by directly or indirectly providing a link to web sites operated by third parties, we should be liable for copyright or trademark infringement or other wrongful actions by the third parties operating those web sites. They could also assert that our third-party information contains errors or omissions, and consumers could seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information. We enter into agreements with other companies under which we share with these other companies’ revenue resulting from advertising or the purchase of services through direct links to or from our web sites. These arrangements may expose us to additional legal risks and uncertainties, including local, state, federal and foreign government regulation and potential liabilities to consumers of these services, even if we do not provide the services ourselves. We cannot offer any assurance that any indemnification provided to us in our agreements with these parties, if available, will be adequate. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 