Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent upon the commercial success of one product, BroadWorks. If the market for BroadWorks does not develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future revenue growth depends upon the commercial success of our voice and multimedia application server software, BroadWorks. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from licensing BroadWorks and related products and services. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 BroadWorks licenses and related services represented 87%, 86% and 82% of our revenue, respectively. We expect revenue from BroadWorks and related products and services to continue to account for the significant majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Because we generally sell licenses of BroadWorks on a perpetual basis and deliver new versions and upgrades to customers who purchase maintenance contracts, our future license revenue is dependent, in part, on the success of our efforts to sell additional BroadWorks licenses to our existing service provider customers. The sale of additional licenses to service providers depends upon their increasing the number of their customers subscribing to IP-based communications services rather than traditional services and the purchasing by those subscribers of additional service offerings that use our applications. These service providers may choose not to expand their use of, or make additional purchases of, BroadWorks or might delay additional purchases we expect. These events could occur for a number of reasons, including because their customers are not subscribing to IP-based communications services in the quantities expected, because services based upon our applications are not sufficiently popular or because service providers migrate to a software solution other than BroadWorks. If service providers do not adopt, purchase and successfully deploy BroadWorks, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or decrease. In addition, because our sales are derived substantially from one product, our share price could be disproportionately affected by market perceptions of current or anticipated competing products, allegations of intellectual property infringement or other matters. These perceptions, even if untrue, could cause our stock price to decline. Infringement claims are common in our industry and third parties, including competitors, have and could in the future assert infringement claims against us including for past infringement, which could force us to redesign our software and incur significant costs. The IP-based communications industry is highly competitive and IP-based technologies are complex. Companies file patents covering these technologies frequently and maintain programs to protect their intellectual property portfolios. Some of these companies actively search for, and routinely bring claims against, alleged infringers. Our products are technically complex and compete with the products of significantly larger companies. On October 22, 2010, we were named as a defendant in a lawsuit brought by EON Corp. IP Holdings, LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In January 2012, the court granted a motion to transfer venue of the case and the case was transferred to the Northern District of California. The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages for alleged infringement of a patent. We intend to defend this lawsuit vigorously, but we cannot be certain of any particular outcome and an adverse outcome in this lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business. The likelihood of our being subject to additional infringement claims may be greater as a result of our real or perceived success in selling products to customers, as the number of competitors in our industry grows and as we add functionality to our products or broaden our product offerings including as a result of acquisitions. We may in the future receive communications from third parties alleging that we may be infringing their intellectual property rights. The visibility we receive from being a public company may result in a greater number of such allegations. Regardless of the merit of third-party claims that we infringe their rights, these claims could: • be time consuming and costly to defend; • divert our management’s attention and resources; 13 Table of Contents • cause product shipment and installation delays; • require us to redesign our products, which may not be feasible or cost-effective; • cause us to cease producing, licensing or using software or products that incorporate challenged intellectual property; • damage our reputation and cause customer reluctance to license our products; or • require us to pay amounts for past infringement or enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. It is possible that other companies hold patents covering technologies similar to one or more of the technologies that we incorporate into our products. In addition, new patents may be issued covering these technologies. Unless and until the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issues a patent to an applicant, there is no reliable way to assess the scope of the potential patent. We may face claims of infringement from both holders of issued patents and, depending upon the timing, scope and content of patents that have not yet been issued, patents issued in the future. The application of patent law to the software industry is particularly uncertain because the time that it takes for a software-related patent to issue is lengthy, which increases the likelihood of pending patent applications claiming inventions whose priority dates may pre-date development of our own proprietary software. This uncertainty, coupled with litigation or the potential threat of litigation related to our intellectual property, could adversely affect our business, revenue, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We are generally obligated to indemnify our customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our software, which could force us to incur substantial costs. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our customers for certain expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to our software. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these customers, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund license fees they have paid to us. Some of our customers have sought, and we expect certain of our customers in the future to seek, indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought against them. In addition, some of our customers have tendered to us the defense of claims brought against them for infringement. We evaluate each such request on a case-by-case basis and we may not succeed in refuting all such claims. If a customer elects to invest resources in enforcing a claim for indemnification against us, we could incur significant costs disputing it. If we do not succeed in disputing it, we could face substantial liability. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in internally developed systems and software and efforts to protect them may be costly. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally. While we hold issued patents and pending patent applications covering certain elements of our technology, patent laws may not provide adequate protection for portions of the technology that are important to our business. In addition, our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. On September 16, 2011, significant patent reform legislation, entitled the “America Invents Act,” was signed into law. Among other things, the act changes the law on U.S. patent priority from a “first to conceive” priority to a “first to conceive and file” priority. In other words, the first person or entity to file a patent application on a 14 Table of Contents particular subject matter is deemed to have priority over any other applicant who files an application on the same subject matter in the future, regardless of who first conceived or reduced to practice the claimed invention. This change in patent priority law may make it more difficult for us to obtain U.S. patents in the future. The act also creates alternative avenues to challenge the validity of issued U.S. patents other than the existing methods of litigation and reexaminations. These new avenues may make it easier and less expensive for third parties to petition the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to cancel one or more issued patent claims. The act also provides a new defense to infringement based upon prior commercial use for any patents issued on or after the date of enactment of the act. This new defense may make it more difficult for a U.S. patent holder to successfully assert an infringement claim against a third party that has commercially used the patented technology at least one year prior to the earlier of the effective date of the claimed invention, or the date on which the claimed invention was disclosed to the public. Although the effectiveness of these new procedures and defenses will depend on regulations to be promulgated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as future court decisions interpreting the act, these provisions may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property rights through U.S. patents. We have largely relied on copyright, trade secret and, to a lesser extent, trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors, to control access to, and distribution of, technology, software, documentation and other confidential information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. If this were to occur, we could lose revenue as a result of competition from products infringing our technology and we may be required to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights and market position. U.S. patent, copyright and trade secret laws offer us only limited protection and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent. Accordingly, defense of our proprietary technology may become an increasingly important issue as we continue to expand our operations and product development into countries that provide a lower level of intellectual property protection than the United States. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and the steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. If competitors are able to use our technology without recourse, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We may elect to initiate litigation in the future to enforce or protect our proprietary rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation may not be ultimately successful and could result in substantial costs to us, the diversion of our management attention and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain necessary licenses of third-party technology on acceptable terms, or at all, which could delay product sales and development and adversely impact product quality. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products. For example, we use a third-party database as the core database for our applications server. We anticipate that we are also likely to need to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements in the future. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The inability to retain any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, and delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements, any of which could seriously harm the competitive position of our products. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part on service providers’ continued deployment of, and investment in, their IP-based networks. Our products are predominantly used by service providers to deliver voice and multimedia services over IP-based networks. As a result, our success depends significantly on these service providers’ continued deployment of, and investment in, their IP-based networks. Service providers’ deployment of IP-based networks and their migration of communications services to IP-based networks is still in its early stages, and these service providers’ continued deployment of, and investment in, IP-based networks depends on a number of factors outside of our control. Among other elements, service providers’ legacy networks include PBXs, Class 5 switches and other equipment that may adequately perform certain basic functions and could have remaining useful lives of 20 or more years and, therefore, may continue to operate reliably for a lengthy period of time. Many other factors may cause service providers to delay their deployment of, or reduce their investments in, their IP-based networks, including capital constraints, available capacity on legacy networks, competitive conditions within the telecommunications industry and regulatory issues. If service providers do not continue deploying and investing in their IP-based networks at the rates we expect, for these or other reasons, our operating results will be materially adversely affected. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, one or more major customers or through one or more major distribution partners would reduce our revenue and harm our results. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Telstra Corporation Limited, or Telstra, accounted for 11% of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, Verizon Corporate Services Group Inc., or Verizon, accounted for approximately 15% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Ericsson AB, one of our distribution partners, and its controlled entities, which we refer to collectively as Ericsson, accounted for 11% of our total revenue. Under our agreements with Telstra and Verizon, no party is required to purchase any minimum amount of our products or services. Because of the variability of the buying practices of our larger customers, the composition of our most significant customers is likely to change over time. If we experience a loss of one or more significant customers or distribution partners including for example, the loss of Telstra or Verizon, or if we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from one or more of our significant customers or distribution partners and we are unable to sell directly or indirectly to new customers or increase orders from other existing customers to offset lost revenue, our business will be harmed. In addition, continued consolidation in the telecommunications industry has further reduced the number of potential customers. This consolidation heightens the likelihood of our dependence on a relatively small number of customers and distribution partners and increases the risk of quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. In addition, given the current global economic conditions, there is a risk that one or more of our customers or distribution partners could cease operations. Any downturn in the business of our key customers or distribution partners could significantly decrease our sales, which could adversely affect our total revenue and results of operations. Our revenue, operating results and gross margin can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and we expect they will continue to do so, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. The rate at which our customers order our products, and the size of these orders, are highly variable and difficult to predict. In the past, we have experienced significant variability in our customer purchasing practices on a quarterly and annual basis, and we expect that this variability will continue, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • demand for our products and the timing and size of customer orders; • length of sales cycles; • length of time of deployment of our products by our customers; 16 Table of Contents • customers’ budgetary constraints; • competitive pressures; and • general economic conditions. As a result of this volatility in our customers’ purchasing practices, our license revenue has historically fluctuated unpredictably on a quarterly and annual basis and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. Our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future revenue. Because any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of revenue is difficult and takes time, if our revenue declines, our operating expenses and general overhead would likely be high relative to revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margin and operating results. In addition to the unpredictability of customer orders, our quarterly and annual results of operations are also subject to significant fluctuation as a result of the application of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies regarding revenue recognition under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. Compliance with these revenue recognition rules has resulted in our deferral of the recognition of revenue in connection with the sale of our software licenses, maintenance and services. The majority of our deferred revenue balance consists of software license orders that do not meet all the criteria for revenue recognition and the undelivered portion of maintenance. Although we typically use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under GAAP, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-element transactions with larger customers who often desire customized features, which causes us to defer revenue until all elements are delivered. As our transactions increase in complexity with the sale of larger, multi-product licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions with our customers can require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. The cumulative effects of these factors could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors for any period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly securities class action suits. Therefore, you should not rely on our operating results in any quarter or year as being indicative of our operating results for any future period. Lengthy and unpredictable sales cycles may force us either to assume unfavorable pricing or payment terms and conditions or to abandon a sale altogether. Our initial sales cycle for a new customer ranges generally between six and 12 months and sometimes more than two years and can be very unpredictable due to the generally lengthy service provider evaluation and approval process for our products, including internal reviews and capital expenditure approvals. Moreover, the evolving nature of the market may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions pending resolution of standards or adoption of technology by others. Sales also typically involve extensive product testing and network certification. Additionally, after we make an initial sale to a customer, its implementation of our products can be very time consuming, often requiring six to 24 months or more, particularly in the case of larger service providers. This lengthy implementation and deployment process can result in a significant delay before we receive an additional order from that customer. As a result of these lengthy sales cycles, we are sometimes required to assume terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing or payment for our products to consummate a sale. Doing so can negatively affect our gross margin and results of operations. Alternatively, if service providers ultimately insist upon terms and conditions that we deem too onerous or not to be commercially prudent, we may incur substantial expenses and devote time and resources to potential relationships that never result in completed sales or revenue. If this result becomes prevalent, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our software must interoperate with many different networks, software applications and hardware products, and this interoperability will depend on the continued prevalence of open standards. Our software is designed to interoperate with our customers’ existing and planned networks, which have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, software applications and products from numerous vendors and contain multiple products that have been added over time. As a result, we must attempt to ensure that our software interoperates effectively with these existing and planned networks. To meet these requirements, we have and must continue to undertake development and testing efforts that require significant capital and employee resources. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, or at all. If our software does not interoperate effectively, installations could be delayed or orders for our software could be cancelled, which would harm our revenue, gross margins and our reputation, potentially resulting in the loss of existing and potential customers. The failure of our software to interoperate effectively with our customers’ networks may result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our software development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. We have entered into arrangements with a number of equipment and software vendors for the use or integration of their technology with our software. These arrangements give us access to, and enable our software to interoperate with, various products that we do not otherwise offer. If these relationships terminate, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the development of alternative software and processes, and our efforts may not be as effective as the combined solutions under our current arrangements. In some cases, these other vendors are either companies that we compete with directly, or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and may have influence over the purchasing decisions of those customers. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with some of our existing and potential vendors and, as a result, our ability to have successful interoperability arrangements with these companies may be harmed. Our failure to establish or maintain key relationships with third-party equipment and software vendors may harm our ability to successfully market and sell our software. Additionally, the interoperability of our software with multiple different networks is significantly dependent on the continued prevalence of standards for IP multimedia services, such as IMS. Some of our existing and potential competitors are network equipment providers who could potentially benefit from the deployment of their own proprietary non-standards-based architectures. If resistance to open standards by network equipment providers becomes prevalent, it could make it more difficult for our software to interoperate with our customers’ networks, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our software to service providers. We may not be able to detect errors or defects in our software until after full deployment and product liability claims by customers could result in substantial costs. Our software is sophisticated and is designed to be deployed in large and complex telecommunications networks. Because of the nature of our software, they can only be fully tested when substantially deployed in very large networks with high volumes of telecommunications traffic. Some of our customers have only recently begun to commercially deploy our software and they may discover errors or defects in the software, or the software may not operate as expected. Because we may not be able to detect these problems until full deployment, any errors or defects in our software could affect the functionality of the networks in which they are deployed. As a result, the time it may take us to rectify errors can be critical to our customers. Because of the complexity of our software, it may take a material amount of time for us to resolve errors or defects, if we can resolve them at all. The likelihood of such errors or defects is heightened as we acquire new products from third parties, whether as a result of acquisitions or otherwise. If one of our software products fails, and we are unable to fix the errors or other performance problems expeditiously, or at all, we could experience: • damage to our reputation, which may result in the loss of existing or potential customers and market share; 18 Table of Contents • payment of liquidated damages for performance failures; • loss of, or delay in, revenue recognition; • increased service, support, warranty, product replacement and product liability insurance costs, as well as a diversion of development resources; and • costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers, which could result in significant damages. Any of the above events would likely have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Because our hosted services could be used to collect and store information of our service provider customers and their subscribers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit sales of our platform. Privacy is a significant issue in the United States and in many other countries where we offer our hosted services. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is complex, dynamic, and likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. In the United States, there are multiple state and federal laws governing the collection, use and disclosure of the information we store and process in our systems. For example, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act protects electronic communications, among other things; The Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair and deceptive privacy practices, covers acts that are unfair or deceptive to consumers; Customer Proprietary Network Information rules restrict use of call records; the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act protects users from unauthorized collection of data from a computer or device; the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994 requires VoIP operators to assist law enforcement with communications monitoring; and the Cable Privacy Act of 1984 places restrictions on disclosure of any personally identifiable information related to a cable subscriber, among other things. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we, our service providers and our customers must comply, including the Data Protection Directive established in the European Union and the Federal Data Protection Act recently passed in Germany which place broad restrictions on use and collection of personal data, including restrictions on cross-border data flows. Further, many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have introduced and are currently considering additional laws and regulations. If passed, we will likely incur additional expenses and costs associated with complying with such laws. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Our customers may also propose other new and different privacy standards contractually. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain and industry standards are constantly in flux, it is possible that these laws and industry standards may impose requirements that are inconsistent with our, and our service providers’, existing data management practices or the features of our hosted services. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, and contractual requirements, we and our service providers could be required or compelled to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our hosted services, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies and industry standards, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the privacy laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our hosted services. Privacy and security concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our hosted services particularly in certain foreign countries that perceive the U.S. as having lesser privacy protections. 19 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to data on our cloud-based networks is otherwise obtained, we may incur significant liabilities under U.S. and foreign laws and our hosted services may be perceived as being vulnerable causing customers to reduce their use of or stop using our hosted services. Our cloud-based services involve the storage and transmission of a large amount of data, and may include personally identifiable data, and security breaches could result in the loss or unauthorized disclosure of this information, degradation of our services or denial of ability of users to access our products and service. If our security measures are breached even as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, such breaches could result in negative publicity that causes our reputation to be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant legal fines and other financial exposure. In the United States, there are multiple state and federal laws governing the security and protection of the information we store and process in our systems. For example, the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, frequently investigates and brings enforcement actions against businesses whose data protection, disclosure, or sharing practices are perceived by the FTC as being unfair or deceptive to consumers. Many states require companies to use reasonable safeguards to protect data and most states require that, in the event of a breach of our data security systems involving sensitive data, we notify every person potentially affected by such breach and to pay considerable damages. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and are often difficult to identify until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We have no direct control over the substance of the content within our hosted network. U.S. law provides considerable protections for any indirect liability as a result of storing infringing or even illegal content in the form of the Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, or the CDA, which provides a safe harbor against claims that content stored on our cloud based service invades consumer privacy or is indecent, offensive, libelous, profane, pornographic or illegal. The CDA’s safe harbor only offers us partial protection, however, because it only limits our legal liability against allegations that our service provider customer illegally uploaded information to our servers; it offers no protection whatsoever for claims arising from a breach of our security measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new service provider customers and increase engagement by existing service provider customers, cause existing service provider customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby increasing our costs and diverting management resources which could harm our operating results. We rely on third-party service providers to host some of our solutions and any interruptions or delays in services from this third party could impair the delivery of our products and harm our business. We currently outsource some of our hosting services to third parties. We do not control the operation of any third party facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of any of these disasters or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Furthermore, the availability of our platform could be interrupted by a number of additional factors, including our customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems due to human or other error, security breaches or ability of the infrastructure to handle spikes in customer usage. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. 20 Table of Contents The quality of our support and services offerings is important to our customers, and if we fail to offer high quality support and services, customers may not buy our software and our revenue may decline. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers generally depend on our support organization to resolve issues relating to those products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If we are unable to provide the necessary level of support and service to our customers, we could experience: • loss of customers and market share; • a failure to attract new customers, including in new geographic regions; • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and • network performance penalties, including liquidated damages for periods of time that our customers’ networks are inoperable. Any of the above results would likely have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. If we do not introduce and sell new and enhanced products in a timely manner, customers may not buy our products and our revenue may decline. The market for communications software and services is characterized by rapid technological advances, frequent introductions of new products including via new deployment models such as cloud-based service offerings, evolving industry standards and recurring or unanticipated changes in customer requirements and deployment model preferences. To succeed, we must effectively anticipate, and adapt in a timely manner to, customer requirements and continue to develop or acquire new products and features that meet market demands and technology and architectural trends. This requires us to identify and gain access to or develop new technologies or service model. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering practices and ensure that new products can be timely delivered to meet demand. We may also require additional capital to achieve these objectives and we may be unable to obtain adequate financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, when we require it. As a result, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. It is also possible that we may allocate significant amounts of cash and other development resources toward product technologies or business models for which market demand is lower than anticipated and, as a result, are abandoned. For example, in the fall of 2010, we announced BroadCloud, a cloud-based hosted infrastructure whereby we will deliver applications via our cloud, and we cannot guarantee that BroadCloud will be successful. Developing our products is expensive, complex and involves uncertainties. We may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage lengthy product development cycles. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our research and development expenses were $27.7 million, or 20% of our total revenue, $19.6 million, or 21% of our total revenue, and $16.6 million, or 24% of our total revenue, respectively. We believe we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to remain competitive. These investments may take several years to generate positive returns and they may never do so. In addition, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. If we fail to meet our development targets, demand for our products will decline. Furthermore, because our products are based on complex technology, we can experience unanticipated delays in developing, improving or deploying them. Each phase in the development of our products presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could impact the timing and cost effective development of such product and could jeopardize customer acceptance of the product. Intensive software testing and validation are 21 Table of Contents critical to the timely introduction of enhancements to several of our products and schedule delays sometimes occur in the final validation phase. Unexpected intellectual property disputes, failure of critical design elements and a variety of other execution risks may also delay or even prevent the introduction of these products. In addition, the introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. If our products become technologically obsolete, customers may purchase solutions from our competitors and we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenue, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which could limit our ability to increase sales and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced significant growth in sales and operations in recent years. We expect to continue to expand our research and development, sales, marketing and support activities. Our historical growth has placed, and planned further growth is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: • manage a larger organization; • increase our sales and marketing efforts and add additional sales and marketing personnel in various regions worldwide; • recruit, hire and train additional qualified staff; • control expenses; • manage operations in multiple global locations and time zones; • broaden our customer support capabilities; • integrate acquisitions, such as our acquisitions of Movial Applications, Inc., or Movial, or iLinc Communications, Inc., or iLinc; • implement appropriate operational, administrative and financial systems to support our growth; and • maintain effective financial disclosure controls and procedures. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to execute our business strategies and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend largely on the continued services of our co-founders, Michael Tessler, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott Hoffpauir, our Chief Technology Officer, and the loss of either of them may impair our ability to grow our business. The success of our business is largely dependent on the continued services of our senior management and other highly qualified technical and management personnel. In particular, we depend to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our co-founders, Michael Tessler, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott Hoffpauir, our Chief Technology Officer. Neither of these officers is bound by a written employment agreement and either of them therefore may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of either of these two officers would likely involve significant time and costs and the loss of either of these officers would significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for highly skilled technical and other personnel with experience in our industry in the Washington, D.C. area, where our headquarters are located, and 22 Table of Contents in other locations where we maintain offices. We must provide competitive compensation packages and a high-quality work environment to hire, retain and motivate employees. If we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract qualified personnel to fill key positions, we may be unable to manage our business effectively, including the development, marketing and sale of existing and new products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. To the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. Volatility in, or lack of performance of, our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our executive officers are vested in a substantial amount of shares of common stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to terminate their employment with us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers may make it difficult to collect accounts receivable and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. Economic conditions may impact some of our customers’ ability to pay their accounts payable. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to collect accounts receivable balances, we have written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts in prior periods and may be unable to avoid accounts receivable write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts in the future. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and could harm our operating results. The worldwide economic downturn may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Financial markets around the world have experienced extreme disruption since 2008, which is reflected by extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. While these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations to date, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies that may present future difficulties if we require access to these credit markets. These economic developments affect businesses in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our existing and potential customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services. Our customers’ ability to pay for our solutions may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Additionally, adverse global economic conditions could force one or more of our key customers or distribution partners to cease operations altogether. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries, including countries in the euro zone. Should these economic conditions result in our not meeting our revenue growth objectives, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We have made a number of acquisitions, and we may undertake additional strategic transactions to further expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our stockholders. As part of our growth strategy, we have made a number of acquisitions, most recently Movial and iLinc. In October 2011, we completed our acquisition of Movial, a Helsinki, Finland-based developer of client applications for IP communications services and in September 2011, we acquired iLinc, a provider of web collaboration services. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these and prior transactions will depend in part upon our ability to service and satisfy new customers gained as part of these acquisitions, the continued integration of the acquired businesses, the performance of the acquired products, the capacities of the technologies acquired and the personnel hired in connection with these transactions. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and charges for impairment of long-term assets. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, other potential strategic transactions. We may in the future acquire businesses, products, technologies or services to expand our product offerings, capabilities and customer base, enter new markets or increase our market share. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating results. Because of our size, any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience with such transactions, and the anticipated benefits of acquisitions may never materialize. Some of the areas where we may face acquisition-related risks include: • diverting management time and potentially disrupting business; • expenses, distractions and potential claims resulting from acquisitions, whether or not they are completed; • reducing our cash available for operations and other uses; • retaining and integrating employees from any businesses we acquire; • integrating and supporting acquired businesses, products or technologies; • integrating various accounting, management, information, human resources and other systems to permit effective management; • the issuance of dilutive equity securities or the incurrence or assumption of debt to finance the acquisition; • incurring possible impairment charges, contingent liabilities, amortization expense or write-offs of goodwill; • unexpected capital expenditure requirements; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisitions; • opportunity costs associated with committing time and capital to such acquisitions; and • acquisition-related litigation, including intellectual property infringement claims. Foreign acquisitions would involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not be able to address these risks successfully, or at all, without incurring significant costs, delays or other operating problems that could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we closely monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a 24 Table of Contents risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. In such event, we could be required to make our proprietary software generally available to third parties, including competitors, at no cost, to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or at all, any of which could adversely affect our revenues and operating expenses. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which would adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Although we believe we have effective internal controls, we may in the future have material weaknesses in our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we test our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2011, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in the future, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock may decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require significant additional financial and management resources. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains various provisions applicable to the corporate governance functions of public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may be ineffective. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread electrical blackouts could have similar negative 25 Table of Contents impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, financial condition and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates; • As a result of our release of substantially all of the tax valuation allowance in 2011, GAAP tax rates starting in 2012 are projected to increase, and may be subject to volatility; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • expected timing and amount of the release of the remaining tax valuation allowance; • expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development tax credit laws; • expiration or non-utilization of net operating losses; • tax effects of stock-based compensation; • costs related to intercompany restructurings; or • changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Outcomes from these continuous examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We incurred significant indebtedness through the sale of our 1.50% convertible senior notes due 2018, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness created by the sale of the notes and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred $120 million of senior indebtedness in June 2011 when we sold $120 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes due 2018, or the Notes. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain additional working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and 26 Table of Contents interest on our indebtedness, or that our cash needs will not increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the Notes, or any indebtedness that we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the Notes and such other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the Notes and such other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the Notes and such other indebtedness. Any default under the Notes or any indebtedness that we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The repurchase rights and events of default features of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the repurchase rights features of the Notes are triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. If the events of default features of the Notes are triggered, holders of the Notes may declare the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable. In either event, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy our obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to exercise their repurchase rights or declare their Notes immediately due and payable, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The accounting method for convertible debt securities, such as the Notes, could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results. Under applicable accounting guidance, we must separately account for the liability and equity components of the Notes, because they may be settled partially in cash upon conversion, in a manner that reflects our economic interest cost. This guidance requires us to record the fair value of the conversion option of the Notes as a component of stockholders’ equity and include this amount in additional paid-in-capital on our consolidated balance sheet. The value of the conversion option of the Notes is reported as a debt discount and subsequently amortized as interest expense through the expected maturity date of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because we will be required to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount (non-cash interest) and the instrument’s cash interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Telecommunications Industry We face intense competition in our markets, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. The worldwide markets for our products and services are highly competitive and continually evolving and we expect competition from both established and new companies to increase. Our primary competitors include companies such as Alcatel-Lucent SA, Avaya Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Ericsson, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Metaswitch Networks, Nokia-Siemens Networks B.V., GENBAND Inc. and Sonus Networks, Inc. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, intellectual property and distribution resources than we have. Their resources may enable them to develop superior products, or they could aggressively price, finance and bundle their product offerings to attempt to gain market adoption or to increase market share. In addition, our customers could also begin using open source software, such as Asterisk, which is incorporated in the products of Digium, Inc., as an alternative to BroadWorks. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to gain market share or to sell other products or services, or if a significant number of our customers use open source software as an alternative to BroadWorks, we may then need to lower the prices of our products and services, change our pricing models, or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully, which would reduce our margins and adversely affect our operating results. 27 Table of Contents In addition to price competition, increased competition may result in other aggressive business tactics from our competitors, such as: • emphasizing their own size and perceived stability against our smaller size and narrower recognition; • providing customers “one-stop shopping” options for the purchase of network equipment and application server software; • offering customers financing assistance; • making early announcements of competing products and employing extensive marketing efforts; • assisting customers with marketing and advertising directed at their subscribers; and • asserting infringement of their intellectual property rights. The tactics described above can be particularly effective in the concentrated base of service provider customers to whom we offer our products. Our inability to compete successfully in our markets would harm our operating results and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Competitive pressures in the telecommunications industry may increase and impact our customers’ purchasing decisions, which could reduce our revenue. The economic downturn has contributed to a slowdown in telecommunications industry spending, dramatic reductions in capital expenditures, financial difficulties and, in some cases, bankruptcies experienced by service providers. Our customers are under increasing competitive pressure from companies within their industry and other participants that offer, or seek to offer, overlapping or similar services. These pressures are likely to continue to cause our customers to seek to minimize the costs of the software platforms that they purchase and may cause static or reduced expenditures by our customers or potential customers. These competitive pressures may also result in pricing becoming a more important factor in the purchasing decisions of our customers. Increased focus on pricing may favor low-cost vendors and our larger competitors that can spread the effect of price discounts across a broader offering of products and services and across a larger customer base. We expect the developments described above to continue to affect our business by: • potentially making it difficult to accurately forecast revenue and manage our business; • exposing us to potential unexpected declines in revenue; and • exposing us to potential losses because we expect that a high percentage of our operating expenses will continue to be fixed in the short-term. Any one or a combination of the above effects could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends upon the success of service providers who are vulnerable to competition from free or low-cost providers of IP-based communications services. We sell software licenses or provide cloud-based UC service offerings to service providers, who then seek to persuade their customers to subscribe to IP-based communications services that use our software. The number of licenses or subscriptions a service provider purchases from us is based in large part on the number of customers the service provider expects will subscribe to its IP-based communications services. When the number of customers using the service provider’s IP services running on our software exceeds the number of licenses or subscriptions, the service provider must purchase additional licenses or subscriptions from us. Accordingly, the growth of our business depends upon the success of service providers in attracting new subscribers to IP-based communications services. Our dependence on service providers exposes us to a number of risks, including the 28 Table of Contents risk that service providers will not succeed in growing and maintaining their IP subscriber base. Among the reasons that service providers may not succeed in growing or maintaining subscriptions to IP-based communications is the prevalence of alternative IP-based communications providers who offer services free or for low cost. Current providers of free or low-cost IP-based communication include Skype, JaJah, Yahoo Messenger and GoogleVoice. If service providers do not succeed in growing and maintaining their IP subscriber base for any reason, including failure to effectively compete with competitors offering free or low-cost services, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry will likely continue and result in delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and increased competitive pricing pressures, which could reduce our revenue. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or retain their market positions in an evolving industry and as businesses are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Consolidation among our customers, distribution partners and technology partners may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers and partners declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Additionally, the acquisition of one of our customers, distribution partners or technology partners by a company that uses or sells the products of one of our competitors could result in our loss of the customer or partner if the acquiring company elects to switch the acquired company to our competitor’s products. Moreover, the consolidation in the number of potential customers and distribution partners could increase the risk of quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulation of IP-based networks and commerce may increase, compliance with these regulations may be time-consuming, difficult and costly and, if we fail to comply, our sales might decrease. In general, the telecommunications industry is highly regulated. However, there is less regulation associated with access to, or delivery of, services on IP-based networks. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP-based networks and commerce in any country where we do business, including the United States. Such regulations could include matters such as using voice over IP protocols, encryption technology and access charges for service providers. The adoption of such regulations could prohibit entry into a target market or force the withdrawal of such products in that particular jurisdiction. As a result, overall demand for our products could decrease and, at the same time, the cost of selling our products could increase, either of which, or the combination of both, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the convergence of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, and IP-based networks could become subject to governmental regulation, including the imposition of access fees or other tariffs, that adversely affects the market for our products and services. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products such as ours. We may be required, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to timely alter our products or address any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our International Operations We are exposed to risks related to our international operations and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We market, license and service our products globally and have a number of offices around the world. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 45%, 46% and 48% of our revenue, respectively, was 29 Table of Contents attributable to our international customers. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 40% of our employees were located abroad. We expect that our international activities will be dynamic over the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in international markets. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. These international operations will require significant management attention and financial resources. International operations are subject to inherent risks and our future results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • requirements or preferences for domestic products, which could reduce demand for our products; • differing technical standards, existing or future regulatory and certification requirements and required product features and functionality; • management communication and integration problems related to entering new markets with different languages, cultures and political systems; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including regulatory requirements regarding our ability to repatriate profits to the United States; and • political and economic instability and terrorism. Additionally, our international operations expose us to risks of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, the significant majority of our international sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, although most of our expenses associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies. As a result, a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the value of these local currencies could have a material adverse effect on the gross margins and profitability of our international operations. Additionally, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the value of these local currencies results in our products being more expensive to potential customers and could have an adverse impact on our pricing or our ability to sell our products internationally. To date, we have not used risk management techniques to hedge the risks associated with these fluctuations. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign currency exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts that may vary or that may later prove to have been inaccurate. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or our failure to successfully hedge against these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on distribution partners to sell our products in international markets, the loss of which could materially reduce our revenue. We sell our products to telecommunication service providers both directly and, particularly in international markets, indirectly through distribution partners such as telecommunications equipment vendors, VARs and other distributors. We believe that establishing and maintaining successful relationships with these distribution partners is, and will continue to be, important to our financial success. Recruiting and retaining qualified distribution partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. To develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. In addition, existing and future distribution partners will only partner with us if we are able to provide them with competitive products on terms that are commercially reasonable to them. If we fail to maintain the quality of our products or to update and enhance them, existing and future distribution partners may elect to partner with one or 30 Table of Contents more of our competitors. In addition, the terms of our arrangements with our distribution partners must be commercially reasonable for both parties. If we are unable to reach agreements that are beneficial to both parties, then our distribution partner relationships will not succeed. The reduction in or loss of sales by these distribution partners could materially reduce our revenue. For example, Ericsson accounted for approximately 7%, 9% and 11% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If we fail to maintain relationships with our distribution partners, fail to develop new relationships with other distribution partners in new markets, fail to manage, train or incentivize existing distribution partners effectively, fail to provide distribution partners with competitive products on terms acceptable to them, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, our revenue may decrease and our operating results could suffer. We have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any VARs or telecommunications equipment vendors, and our contracts with these distribution partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours, including products they currently offer or may develop in the future and incorporate into their own systems. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our distribution partners than we do and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those partners implement our products, rather than our competitors’ products, or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products, rather than our offerings. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with distribution partners could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, because certain of our products contain encryption technology. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute certain of our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement these products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their networks or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shifts in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not successfully sell our products in certain geographic markets or develop and manage new sales channels in accordance with our business plan. We expect to continue to sell our products in certain geographic markets where we do not have significant current business and to a broader customer base. To succeed in certain of these markets, we believe we will need to develop and manage new sales channels and distribution arrangements. Because we have limited experience in developing and managing such channels, we may not be successful in further penetrating certain geographic regions or reaching a broader customer base. Failure to develop or manage additional sales channels effectively would limit our ability to succeed in these markets and could adversely affect our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile and it could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • a slowdown in the telecommunications industry or the general economy; • quarterly or annual variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships, capital commitments or acquisitions; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • departure of key personnel; and • changes in governmental regulations. In addition, in recent years, the stock markets generally, and the market for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Since our initial public offering, or IPO, our common stock has traded at prices ranging from $7.34 to $55.45. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Securities litigation brought against us following volatility in our stock price, regardless of the merit or ultimate results of such litigation could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and operating results and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Securities analysts may not publish favorable research or reports about our business or may publish no information which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. As a relatively new public company, we may be slow to attract research coverage and the analysts who publish information about our common stock will have had relatively little experience with our company, which could affect their ability to accurately forecast our results and make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock price, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports covering us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our management might apply our available capital resources in ways that do not increase the value of your investment. We intend to use our available capital resources for working capital and general corporate purposes, including expanding our development, operations, marketing and sales departments. We may also use a portion of these resources for the future acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. 32 Table of Contents Our management has broad discretion as to the use of these resources and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these resources. We might apply these resources in ways with which you do not agree, or in ways that do not yield a favorable return. If our management applies these resources in a manner that does not yield a significant return, if any, on our investment of these resources, it would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and our stock may not appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or that the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares will be able to be maintained. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals or could delay, deter or prevent a change in control, including transactions that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Additionally, these provisions could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Provisions in the indenture for the Notes may deter or prevent a business combination. Under the terms of the indenture governing the Notes, the occurrence of certain merger and business combination transactions could require us to repurchase all or a portion of the Notes, or, in some circumstances, increase the conversion rate applicable to the Notes. In addition, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or business combination transactions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, including additional shares associated with the potential conversion of the Notes, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and cause dilution to existing stockholders. Upon conversion of the Notes, we will repay the principal portion of the Notes in cash, but we will deliver shares of common stock to the note holder in respect of any conversion value of the Notes. Additionally, we are not 33 Table of Contents restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock, including upon the conversion of the Notes, or if we issue additional instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including upon conversion of some or all of the Notes, will also dilute the ownership interests of existing holders of our common stock. Dilution will be greater if the conversion rate of the Notes is adjusted upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the indenture to the Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 