RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the information under “Risk Factors” and all other information included in, or incorporated by reference into, this prospectus before investing in our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should be able to bear the complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risk and uncertainties actually occur, our future operating results and financial condition could be harmed, and the market price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business We have reported losses from operations in every fiscal year of our operating history other than 2003. We have never generated income from operations in any fiscal year, except for fiscal 2003, when we realized a gain from a litigation settlement, which resulted in income from operations. Our aggregate revenue from inception to July 31, 2005 was approximately $661.8 million, and our accumulated deficit was $815.1 million as of that date. We will need to generate significant additional annual revenue beyond the $78.8 million of revenue generated in fiscal 2005 to achieve profitability. We may not be able to do so. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. IDT Corporation, our majority stockholder, has made an offer to purchase all of our outstanding stock not owned by IDT, and if our independent directors accept the offer, we will be acquired by IDT. In light of the relationship between us and IDT, our Board of Directors formed a committee of independent directors to review, evaluate and approve or disapprove of agreements and other material issues arising from time to time between IDT and us. On June 28, 2005, we received a letter from IDT Corporation, our controlling stockholder, notifying our Board of Directors that IDT intended to make an offer to purchase all outstanding shares of our common stock not owned by IDT or its affiliates, at a price of $1.70 per share in cash. Our Board of Directors charged the independent committee with reviewing the IDT offer, and the committee found the initial IDT offer not acceptable. On September 6, 2005, IDT announced that it was changing the form of consideration in its proposed offer to purchase our outstanding shares not owned by IDT or its affiliates from $1.70 in cash to $1.70 in value of IDT’s Class B Common Stock at a ratio of 0.1283 IDT shares for each of our shares and the committee stated that this offer was also not acceptable. On September 13, 2005, the committee stated that it anticipates being in a position to engage in discussions with IDT in the near future, and such discussions are ongoing. We cannot predict how long the negotiation process will take or whether any transaction will result. Even if our independent committee reaches an agreement with IDT, we cannot predict the final structure of any transaction, the per share purchase price, or the time required to close the transaction. In addition, this process involves a number of additional risks, including: the diversion of management attention from operational matters; the incurrence of significant incremental costs associated with the proposed transaction; our inability to attract and retain key personnel given the uncertainty of the transaction and the company’s future; the potential disruption of our business; and customer dissatisfaction or performance problems. The realization of all or any of the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our stock price, business and our results of operations. If our independent committee does not reach an agreement with IDT in a timely manner or at all, this could have an adverse impact on our stock price and our relationship with IDT, or IDT may choose to reduce the compensation offered in exchange for our shares or pursue a transaction without the input of our independent committee and management. For additional information on the risks associated with our relationship with IDT, see “Risks Related to Our Relationship with IDT” below. 24 Back to Contents We intend to pursue new streams of revenue, including from our cable telephony business, which may not be profitable. Beginning in fiscal 2004, we devoted, and we will continue to devote, significant capital and resources to the development of our cable telephony business, and we cannot ensure when or if this investment will be profitable. Our business models for our cable telephony business are still being defined, and have not been tested on a broad basis. We are just beginning to test our cable telephony service on a large scale and with multiple operators in multiple jurisdictions. We cannot be sure that our service offering will be scalable to the extent necessary to serve a large customer base or that our services will deliver sufficient reliability or quality on a large scale basis, or at all. Our cable telephony business faces other risks, including, but not limited to the following: • end users of cable telephony services may not accept our product as an alternative to their existing telephony services on a wide-scale basis, or at all; • cable operators have and may in the future choose to build their own internal cable telephony services, and not outsource to providers such as us; • the failure of cable operators to successfully market, and help generate consumer demand for, cable telephony service; • international deployments may be delayed due to the variety of legal, tax and implementation issues that are often unique to the host country; • the long period of time required to consummate an agreement with a cable operator, deploy the service and earn revenues; and • the legal and regulatory environment related to cable telephony may change in a manner that would preclude us from pursuing this opportunity in a profitable manner, or at all. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to recoup our substantial investment in the cable telephony business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to grow our business. Due to the nature of our industry, our future capital needs are difficult to predict. Therefore, we may require additional capital to fund some or all of the following: • deployment of our cable telephony service; • unanticipated opportunities; • strategic alliances; • potential acquisitions; • changing business conditions; and • unanticipated competitive pressures. We believe that, as the expected growth in our cable telephony business accelerates, or if we acquire the business or assets of another company, we may need to raise additional capital from equity or debt sources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such capital on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our anticipated expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Pricing pressures and increasing use of VoIP technology may lessen our competitive pricing advantage. Our success is based partly on our ability to provide discounted local and long distance telephone services by taking advantage of cost savings achieved by carrying voice traffic employing VoIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. In recent years, the price of telephone service has 25 Back to Contents fallen. The price of telephone service may continue to fall for various reasons, including the adoption of VoIP technology by other communications carriers. Many carriers have adopted pricing plans such that the rates that they charge are not always substantially higher than the rates that we charge for similar service. In addition, other providers of long distance services are offering unlimited or nearly unlimited use of some of their services for an attractive monthly rate. The overall effect of these developments may be to reduce the price of local and long distance calls to a point where we no longer have a price advantage. We would then have to rely on factors other than price to differentiate our product and service offerings, which we may not be able to do. If we are not able to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We and our cable customers may not be able to compete with providers that can bundle telephony services with other offerings. Our competitors as well as the competitors of our cable operator customers, such as local exchange carriers and satellite television providers, may bundle services and products that we do not offer together with long distance or Internet telephony services. These services could include wireless communications, voice and data services, Internet access and cable television. This form of bundling would put us at a competitive disadvantage if these providers can combine a variety of service offerings at a single attractive price. In addition, some of the telecommunications and other companies that compete with us and our cable customers may be able to provide customers with lower communications costs or other incentives with their services, reducing the overall cost of their communications packages, and significantly increasing pricing pressures on our services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are entering the cable telephony business, in part, to take advantage of possible bundled service offerings by our cable operator customers, we cannot assure you that we will compete successfully in this business. Some local exchange carriers, alone or together with partners such as satellite television providers, are capable of providing a similar bundled service offering of voice, data and video. This service offering would directly compete with bundled services offerings by cable operators that purchase our cable telephony services. If we or our cable operator customers are unable to successfully compete with these offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The market for telecommunications services is extremely competitive. Many companies offer products and services like ours, and some of these companies have a superior presence in the markets we serve. In addition, many of these companies are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies. If we do not succeed in competing with these companies, we will lose customers and our revenue will be substantially reduced, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors include the following: International Reseller Channel. Competitors include both government-owned phone companies as well as emerging competitive carriers. Consumer Channel. There are several large and numerous small competitors, and we expect to face continuing competition based on price and service offerings from existing competitors. Competitors include AT&T, MCI, Sprint, IDT and Regional Bell Operating Companies, all of whom offer their own pre-paid calling cards. Some providers, such as Skype Technologies, Go2Call and DeltaThree, Inc., offer similar PC-to-phone services to ours, and are now offering inbound calling with features on their services which may compete with our VoiceLine service offering. Other providers, such as Vonage Holdings Corp., Packet 8, AT&T, Verizon and Primus, compete with our VoiceLine service offering, and may become competitive with our International Communications Services service offerings. AOL, Google and Yahoo! offer new services that have features similar to some of the products and services we offer though our Consumer Channel, and we may therefore face competition from them in these areas. 26 Back to Contents Carrier Channel. Wholesale Internet telephony service providers, such as Teleglobe Corp. and iBasis, Inc. compete with our carrier services. We also compete with other wholesale communications providers, such as MCI, Global Crossing, IDT, Qwest Communications and Sprint. Cable Channel. Our ability to sell our cable telephony services may be further limited by the fact that cable operators have and may in the future elect to develop and maintain their own cable telephony service instead of buying services from us. We compete with several companies, such as Sprint Corporation, who currently market cable telephony services directly to consumers and cable operators. These companies may be able to offer services similar to ours, or features that we may be unable to provide, and they may offer services at prices lower than we intend to charge. Other companies aggregate a series of elements to deploy cable telephony systems that could be competitive to us. We along with cable operators seeking to provide our telephony services directly to customers, will face competition for subscribers for telephone service from incumbent local exchange carriers, such as Verizon, Qwest, SBC and competitive local exchange carriers for subscribers for telephone services. We expect that competition for telephone services will be primarily on the basis of price, quality, customer service and the ability to offer a bundled voice, video and data service offering. Some local exchange carriers, alone or together with partners such as satellite television providers, are or may become capable of providing bundled service offerings of voice, data and video similar to which cable operators who have upgraded their systems to two-way digital cable can provide. These providers may be able to provide this bundled service offering at lower prices or with greater reliability than cable operators, which in turn may adversely affect demand for our product. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we identify additional issues, this could negatively impact our stock price. In our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ending January 31, 2005 and April 30, 2005, we identified deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that led us to conclude that, when taken together, we had a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto (“Section 404 Rules”), which require us to evaluate our internal financial controls to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting as of July 31, 2005. Our management report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending July 31, 2005, and it contains our assessment that we believe that we maintained effective internal controls over financial reporting as of July 31, 2005. We will continue to report on the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by law. If we are unable to timely report on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls over financial reporting under the Section 404 Rules, or if we must disclose material weaknesses related to our system of internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting and financial statements could be damaged and cause our stock price to decline. We have and plan to increasingly depend on our international operations, which subject us to unpredictable regulatory, economic and political situations. Our customers based outside of the United States generated approximately 57 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2005. A significant component of our strategy is to continue to expand internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding into additional international markets. In addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenue from foreign operations and expand our international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including: • changing regulatory requirements, which vary widely from country to country; • action by foreign governments or foreign telecommunications companies to limit access to our services; • increased bad debt and subscription fraud; • legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers; 27 Back to Contents • economic and political instability; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, several of our largest customers are based in the Middle East, Asia and Latin America and other areas of the world where there is the potential for significant political and economic instability. More than 19 percent of our revenue was derived from customers in the Middle East in fiscal 2005. We have experienced power supply problems, difficulty maintaining local customer support and difficulties dealing with local companies and governments in some of these regions. In addition, the regulatory environment in these countries changes frequently, and the regulations are often difficult to obtain in a timely manner and to interpret as applied to our technologies. Additionally, in our experience, the enforcement of these regulations does not always track the letter of the law in these countries. Moreover, developments in the Middle East, such as the continuation of hostilities by the United States or others, could result in the disruption of our business in the regions affected by the hostilities. These events could also reduce travel to these regions, which could further adversely affect our calling card business, which relies in large part on the use of calling cards by travelers. We cannot assure you that these political and economic difficulties will not continue or that they will not expand into other geographic areas experiencing political and economic instability. These difficulties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any damage to or failure of our systems or operations could result in reductions in, or terminations of, our services. Our success depends on our ability to provide efficient and uninterrupted, high quality services. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, and intentional acts of terrorism or vandalism and similar events that may be or may not be beyond our control. Our systems and operations could also be interrupted by Internet service providers or government owned telecommunications companies that implement network changes or blocks, which may also be out of our control. The occurrence of any or all of these events could still hurt our reputation and cause us to lose customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of the IP telephony calls made by our customers are connected through local telephone companies and, at least in part, through leased facilities that may become unavailable. We are not a local telephone company or a local exchange carrier. Our network covers only portions of the United States. Accordingly, we must route parts of some domestic and all international calls made by our customers over leased transmission facilities. In addition, because our network does not extend to homes or businesses, we must generally route calls through a local telephone company to reach our network and, ultimately, to reach their final destinations. In many of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, the primary provider of significant in-country transmission facilities is the national telephone company, which may be the only provider in that country. Accordingly, we may have to lease transmission capacity at artificially high rates from such a monopolistic provider, and consequently, we may not be able to generate a profit on those calls. In addition, national telephone companies may not be required by law to lease necessary transmission lines to us or, if applicable law requires national telephone companies to lease transmission facilities to us, we may encounter delays in negotiating leases and interconnection agreements and commencing operations. Additionally, disputes may result with respect to pricing, billing or other terms of these agreements, and these disputes could affect our ability to continue to operate in these countries, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to implement our cable telephony services will require us and our underlying providers to negotiate carrier services and/or interconnection agreements with established telephone companies and other new market entrants, which can take considerable time, effort and expense and which may be subject to federal, state and local regulation. Interconnection agreements are agreements between local telecommunications services providers that set forth the terms and conditions governing how these providers will interconnect their networks and/or purchase or lease network facilities and services. 28 Back to Contents We rely on the Internet and third-party communications infrastructure over which we have little control. Our service could be disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, if the quality and maintenance of the third-party communications infrastructure on which we rely suffers. This infrastructure, including the Internet and leased transmission facilities, is sometimes used to carry our voice traffic between our customers. We have no control over whether the infrastructure on which we rely will be adequately maintained by these third parties or whether these third parties are able to upgrade or improve their equipment and prevent it from becoming obsolete. If these third parties fail to maintain, upgrade or improve this equipment, our service quality may be harmed, we may lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We do not control the security of the Internet and our business could be materially harmed by unauthorized activity, which results in congestion, failures or deficiencies in the infrastructure. Our cable telephony business depends on key vendors for hardware devices, softswitches and other services. Our Cable Channel relies on several service providers to support its cable telephony service offering. In addition to IDT, our Cable Channel relies on Level3 Communications, Inc., Intrado, Inc., Accenture, LLP, VeriSign, Inc. and other providers to deliver a suite of local telecommunications services, including local phone numbers, access to the PSTN, operator assistance, directory listings and assistance, E911 emergency services and local number portability. By using these providers, we gain access to telephone numbering resources, which expands the availability of our telephony products to cable operators. To date, we have not entered into definitive written agreements with all of these service providers. In addition, we may have difficulty integrating the various services we receive form these companies into our product offerings seamlessly where such integration is required. If we cannot enter into definitive agreements with these providers and successfully integrate the services they provide into our product offerings, we would need to find replacement providers. We may not be able to find and contract with replacement providers in a timely manner, or at all. If we cannot locate, contract with and integrate with the service providers we need to deploy our cable telephony service in the various locations where we are deploying our products around the world, our Cable Channel business could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to handle a large number of simultaneous calls, which our systems may not be able to accommodate. We expect the volume of simultaneous calls to increase significantly as we expand our operations. Our network hardware and software may not be able to accommodate this additional volume. If we fail to maintain an appropriate level of operating performance, or if our service is disrupted, our reputation could be hurt, we could lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because we are unable to predict definitely the volume of usage and our capacity needs, we may be forced to enter into disadvantageous contracts that would reduce our operating margins. We may have to enter into additional long-term agreements for leased communications transmission capacity. To the extent that we overestimate our call volume, we may be obligated to pay for more transmission capacity than we actually use, resulting in costs without corresponding revenue. Conversely, if we underestimate our capacity needs, we may be required to obtain additional transmission capacity through more expensive means or such capacity may not be available. As a result, our margins could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications industry. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the market in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we 29 Back to Contents use, or these new services may render our services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving and expanding the scope of services we offer and by developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards on a cost effective and timely basis. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our brand. We regard our patents, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. It may be difficult for us to enforce certain of our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have acquired intellectual property rights by filing unauthorized applications in foreign countries to register the trademarks that we use because of their familiarity with our worldwide operations. Since Internet related industries such as ours are exposed to the intellectual property laws of numerous foreign countries and trademark rights are territorial, there is uncertainty in the enforceability and scope of protection of our trademarks. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may damage our brand and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products and services do not or will not infringe upon valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held or claimed by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against those third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. For example, in February 2000, Multi-Tech, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we infringe upon its patents. While we received a successful ruling in this case, we incurred substantial expenses defending this claim. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. Our risk management practices may not be sufficient to protect us from unauthorized transactions or thefts of services. As have many others in our industry whose customers use credit cards to purchase services, we have been the victim of consumer fraud and theft of service. From time to time, callers have obtained our services without rendering payment by unlawfully using our access numbers and personal identification numbers. We attempt to manage these theft and fraud risks through our internal controls and our monitoring and blocking systems. If these efforts are not successful, the theft of our services may cause our revenue to decline significantly and our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Relationship with IDT We are controlled by IDT and Mr. Howard Jonas. IDT Corporation, either directly or through its affiliates, owned an aggregate of 40.8 percent of our outstanding capital stock and 56.9 percent of the aggregate voting power of our capital stock on October 6, 2005. Mr. Howard Jonas controls IDT because he beneficially owns a controlling voting interest in the voting securities of IDT and serves as the chairman of its board of directors. As a result, Mr. Jonas and IDT have 30 Back to Contents the power to control or influence the selection of our board of directors, management and other decisions important to our business. We may experience conflicts of interest resulting from IDT’s power to elect the members of our board of directors and the presence of IDT officers and directors on our board. IDT has the power to nominate and elect the members of our board of directors when such members become eligible for re-election, so long as at least five members are not affiliated with us or IDT, as required by our bylaws. The vice chairman of our board, Howard Jonas, is also the chairman of IDT’s board of directors. On October 31, 2004, Stephen Greenberg, our previous chief executive officer and vice chairman of the board, resigned as our chief executive officer and became chairman of our board. Mr. Greenberg has received and will continue to receive compensation from IDT. One of our other directors, James Courter, serves as a director and the chief executive officer of IDT. In addition, our new chief executive officer effective October 31, 2004, Liore Alroy, whose appointment was influenced by IDT, also serves on our board. Mr. Alroy was previously a senior vice president at IDT. Although a majority of our board members are independent directors, our board may still face significant conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving IDT and other matters that may arise in the ordinary course of our business. IDT’s holdings may limit your ability as a stockholder to influence the outcome of matters subject to a stockholder vote. IDT is able to exert considerable influence over us, including in the election of our directors, the appointment of management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of our company or of all of our assets. In addition, we could be prevented from entering into certain transactions that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders, as IDT can effectively block these transactions through its voting control of us. Third parties will likely be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of IDT’s stock ownership and voting control of us. See the risk factor “IDT Corporation, our majority stockholder, has made an offer to purchase all of our outstanding stock not owned by IDT, and if our independent directors accept the offer, we will be acquired by IDT” above. We have contracted with IDT for various services and for the use of its telecommunications network, which contracts we may not be able to renew when they expire. In May 1999, we entered into agreements with IDT under which IDT provides administrative and telecommunication services to us. Since that time we have entered into a variety of other service agreements with IDT. Some of these agreements are terminable at will. If we or IDT elect to terminate, we will need to engage other entities to perform these services or perform these services ourselves. We cannot assure you that IDT will continue to provide these services. As a result, we may have to purchase these services from third parties or devote resources to handle these functions internally, which may cost us more than we paid IDT for the same services. Some of our business relationships with IDT and its affiliates are not covered by written agreements. IDT could stop them at any time. IDT, together with its affiliates, was our largest carrier customer in fiscal 2005, representing 51.3 percent of our carrier revenue and 7.6 percent of our total revenue for fiscal 2005. While we have understandings in place with IDT relating to the carrier services we provide to them, only some of them have been reduced to writing, and with respect to the agreements that are not in writing, they may be terminated at any time by either party, or the terms could change without notice to us. Termination of these relationships, or a deterioration of the terms available to us, could significantly reduce our revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Back to Contents We will depend on IDT to provide various telecommunications services to us. We do not currently have a definitive agreement in place with IDT for these services. On October 29, 2003, we entered into a binding memorandum of understanding with IDT for the provision of telecommunications services to Net2Phone Cable Telephony. Under the memorandum of understanding, it is contemplated that IDT and its affiliates will provide to us telecommunications services that will be important to our cable telephony business. We expect IDT to provide us with some or all of the following services: network access, call termination, call origination, and other related services. We expect to obtain favorable pricing on these services during the term of our agreement with IDT. We expect to purchase from IDT a significant portion of telecommunications services that we require to support our cable telephony business. Our agreement with IDT for these services is currently in the form of a legally binding memorandum of understanding. The memorandum of understanding requires that we and IDT use good faith efforts to negotiate, execute and deliver a definitive agreement that comprehensively sets forth the obligations of IDT to supply the telecommunications services. If, for any reason, the parties do not execute a definitive agreement, IDT may elect not to provide these services to us. If we enter into the definitive agreement and IDT does not perform its obligations under the agreement, we will be required to seek alternative supply arrangements. If we cannot obtain these services from IDT, one of the sources of supply for these services may be from competitors to our cable telephony business, including traditional long distance carriers and incumbent local exchange carriers. We may not be able to obtain these services from third parties at the prices and on the terms we anticipated to receive from IDT. If we must seek alternative supply of these services, we may be delayed in offering our cable telephony services while we negotiate supply arrangements. As a result, our ability to offer our cable telephony services may be materially and adversely affected. We are required to issue 6.9 million shares of Class A common stock to IDT when we enter into definitive telecommunications services and related agreements. Charges relating to the vesting of these shares may materially reduce our earnings. Under the terms of the memorandum of understanding, we have agreed to issue 6.9 million shares of Class A common stock to IDT at the time we execute definitive agreements in consideration for IDT providing the telecommunications and other services to us. The stock will be held in escrow to secure IDT’s performance obligations and will be released to IDT in equal annual amounts over five years, which began October 29, 2003, with the first release of all shares earned to date to occur when definitive agreements are signed. If third parties can provide services to us on more favorable terms, we may determine not to purchase services from IDT. IDT may not be able to provide these services to us in the quantities we demand. We may determine to purchase similar services from other suppliers for other reasons as well. Even if we do not purchase from IDT our anticipated or required volume of services, IDT may still be entitled to receive all of these shares so long as it is offering the services and otherwise performing its obligations under the agreement. Assuming these 6.9 million shares are issued, IDT will control 61.8 percent of our aggregate voting power based on our outstanding stock on October 6, 2005. These shares are subject to variable accounting treatment until they are released from escrow and therefore must be marked-to-market each quarter, resulting in a quarterly charge to earnings equal to the aggregate market value of one-fourth of the shares that will vest on each anniversary of the agreement. These charges may materially reduce our earnings. Risks Related to Our Industry Federal and state regulations may be passed that could harm our business. Our ability to provide VoIP communications services at attractive rates arises in large part from the fact VoIP services are not currently subject to the same level of regulation as traditional telephony. Because their services are not currently regulated to the same extent as traditional telephony, VoIP providers can currently avoid paying some of the charges that traditional telephone companies must pay. Local exchange carriers are 32 Back to Contents lobbying the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and the states to regulate VoIP on the same basis as traditional telephone services. Congress, the FCC and several states are examining this issue. If these regulators decide to regulate VoIP, they may impose surcharges, taxes or additional regulations upon providers of Internet telephony. These surcharges could include access charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic, contributions to the Universal Service Fund (USF) or other charges. The imposition of any such additional fees, charges, taxes and regulations on IP communications services could materially increase our costs and may limit or eliminate our competitive pricing advantages. In addition, we expect that recently enacted regulations requiring compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), or provision of 911 services required for traditional telecommunications providers, could place a significant financial burden on us depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements. We have received directives from some state regulators that we register as a telecommunications provider in their states. In response, we are taking the position that VoIP is not, and should not be, subject to such regulations because VoIP is an information service, not a telecommunications service. However, these states may reject our position and may subject us to regulation and require us to pay associated charges and taxes. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to offer services outside the U.S. is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be complicated and often uncertain. Regulatory treatment of Internet telephony outside the United States varies from country to country. We distribute our products and services through resellers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure of these resellers to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability. Because of our relationship with the resellers, some countries may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country. In such case, our failure to do so could subject us to regulatory action such as fines or penalties. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our extensive international operations, from which we derived approximately 57 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2005. In many countries in which we operate or our services are sold, the status of the laws that may relate to our services is unclear. We cannot be certain that our customers, resellers, or other affiliates are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in their respective countries, that they or we will be able to comply with existing or future requirements, and/or that they or we will continue in compliance with any requirements. Our failure or the failure of those with whom we transact business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulations, such as the requirement to provide enhanced 911, or E911, services, may increase our cost of doing business and subject us to additional liability. We expect our need to comply with new regulations to increase our costs of doing business, which means we may need to raise our prices or lower our margins, which could adversely affect our ability to be competitive and to become profitable. In addition, as we begin to offer new products and services the failure of such products and services to perform or function properly may also subject us to legal claims or actions from our customers. For instance, we intend to offer services that enable customers to access emergency services in order to comply with new FCC requirements in this area. This has required us to spend significant internal resources to develop the necessary technology, enhance our operations center to monitor compliance, and enter into agreements with service providers to provide necessary technology or services. Even with this significant effort, while these services may resemble traditional emergency services such as 911, they are fundamentally different in terms of routing and reliability. We endeavor to disclose any and all limitations of the emergency services we offer but we cannot guarantee that customers will use the services properly or read our disclosures and disclaimers. In addition, while we are working diligently to meet the requirements of the FCC’s E911 Order, it is still subject to change, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to comply with FCC regulations with respect to 911 in all of our markets, or across all of our services. This may require us to terminate certain agreements or stop providing services to some of our end users or to expand into new 33 Back to Contents markets where we cannot provide E911 services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot provide the service or if our service fails and a 911 call does not get through, this may subject us to additional liability if the person needing assistance cannot access emergency services. Unlike traditional local exchange service providers that are protected from this liability by statute, VoIP providers have not been granted such protection. In addition, other new and existing laws may cover areas that impact our business that include, but are not limited to: • sales, excise and other taxes; • user privacy; • pricing controls; • export and international commerce related transactions; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • consumer protection; and • encryption. While we expect additional regulation of our industry in some or all of these areas, and we expect continuing changes in the regulatory environment as new and proposed regulations are reviewed, revised and amended, we cannot predict with certainty what impact new laws in these areas will have on us, if any. For a complete discussion of what we believe are the most material regulations impacting our business, see “Business–Regulation” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, as is the stock market in general, and the market for VoIP services and communications related companies in particular. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, conditions or trends in the VoIP services and other Internet and communications related industries, announcements made by our competitors or sales of our common stock. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as the fact that IDT controls us, may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. IDT’s control of a majority of our voting stock enables it to block or deter attempts by third parties to acquire control of our company. In connection with the letter we received on June 28, 2005 from IDT notifying our Board of Directors that IDT intended to make an offer to purchase all outstanding shares of our common stock not owned by IDT, on July 6, 2005, the Independent Committee of our Board of Directors, which was established to review related party transactions, inquired whether IDT would be willing to sell its shares in Net2Phone to a third party, if that third party were willing to acquire all of Net2Phone. On July 8, 2005, IDT indicated that it would not be interested in selling the Net2Phone shares it owns to a third party. IDT, therefore, may not approve any takeover bid other than its own, even if other stockholders believe an alternative transaction is in their best interests. In addition, some of the provisions of our certificate of 34 Back to Contents incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the then market price. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At each annual meeting of stockholders, the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire, and new directors will be elected to serve for three years. It will take at least two annual meetings to effect a change in control of our board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting, which may discourage hostile takeover bids. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock, which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. The issuance of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. Our bylaws and articles of incorporation contain provisions that require stockholders to act only at a duly called meeting in certain circumstances and make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly called meeting by requiring such other person to follow certain notice procedures. Certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Net2Phone, discourage acquisition proposals or diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market value of our common stock or over a stockholder’s cost basis in our common stock. Additional Information The Company’s internet address is www.net2phone.com. We make available, via a link to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website and through our investor relations website located at www.net2phone.com, access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. A copy of this Annual Report is available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Net2Phone, Inc., 520 Broad St., 8th Floor, Newark, NJ 07102. 35 Back to Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report or in any other presentation, statements which are not historical in nature, including the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “continue,” “future,” “potential,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “plan,” “intend,” “seek,” “estimate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. They also include statements containing a projection of revenues, earnings or losses, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial terms. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based upon our management’s beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future operations and economic performance, taking into account the information currently available to us. These statements are not statements of historical fact. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are not currently known to us, that may cause our actual results, performance or financial condition to be materially different from the expectations of future results, performance or financial condition we express or imply in any forward-looking statements. Some of the important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or financial condition to differ materially from expectations are our ability to expand our customer base and to develop additional and leverage our existing distribution channels for our products and solutions, include: • IDT Corporation’s offer to purchase all of our outstanding common stock not currently owned by IDT, • pursuit of new streams of revenue which may not be profitable, • dependence on strategic and channel partners including their ability to distribute our products and meet or renew their financial commitments, • our ability to address international markets, • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities, • the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, • the timing and scope of deployments of our products by customers, • fluctuations in customer sales cycles, • our customers’ ability to obtain additional funding, • technical difficulties with respect to our products or products in development, • the need for ongoing product development in an environment of rapid technological change, • the emergence of new competitors in the marketplace, • our ability to compete successfully against established competitors with greater resources, • the uncertainty of future governmental regulation, • our ability to manage growth and obtain patent protection and additional funds, • general economic and business conditions, and • the other factors referenced in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, under the section entitled “Risk Factors”. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. Furthermore, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward- looking statements after the date of this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report might not occur. We qualify any and all of our forward-looking statements entirely by these cautionary factors. 36 Back to Contents 