Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain of the important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We expect our revenues and operating results to continue to fluctuate for the foreseeable future. If our quarterly or annual results are lower than the expectations of securities analysts, then the price of our common stock is likely to fall. Our revenues and operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past and will probably continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the foreseeable future. A number of factors are likely to cause variations in our operating results, including: • the timing of sales and revenue recognition of our products and services, which are affected by the mix of licensed, hosted and subscription-based sales in a period; depending on our sales terms with our customers, we expect to recognize an increasing portion of our revenue ratably over a period of time rather than at the time of invoice; • the timing of customer orders, especially larger transactions, and product implementations; • fluctuating economic conditions, particularly as they affect our customers’ willingness to implement new e-commerce solutions; • delays in introducing new products and services; • the size of price discounting and concessions; • changes in the mix of revenues derived from products and services; • timing of hiring and utilization of personnel; • cost overruns related to fixed-price services projects; • the mix of domestic and international sales; • variation in our actual costs from our cost estimates related to long term hosting contracts; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development or administration; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of technologies or businesses. In any given quarter, we often depend on several relatively large license transactions to meet expected revenues for that quarter. If we expect to complete a large sale to a specific customer in a particular quarter and the sale is not completed in that quarter, then we are not likely to be able to generate revenue from alternate sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. In addition, as is the case with many software companies, a significant portion of our sales are concentrated near the end of each fiscal quarter. If we are unable to close or recognize revenues on even a relatively small number of license deals at quarter-end, then we may not be able to meet expected revenues for that quarter. Because of this concentration of sales at quarter end, our more sophisticated customers may be successful in pressuring us to give them higher price discounts than we might otherwise provide by waiting until quarter-end to complete their transactions with us. 10 Table of Contents Our management has concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could undermine our investors’ confidence in our financial statements. Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls and that our independent registered public accounting firm must report on management’s evaluation of those controls. Our management has concluded that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, specifically relating to inadequate and ineffective controls over the financial statement close process and inadequate staffing within the accounting organization, existed as of December 31, 2006. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has concurred with management’s assessment. Our management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of Ernst & Young LLP thereon appear in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If the presence of these material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting undermine investor confidence in the quality of our financial reporting, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the remedial actions we have undertaken, as described in Item 9A, will be adequate to promptly and completely correct the reported deficiencies. We may not be able to sustain or increase our revenue or attain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We incurred losses in five of the most recent 12 quarters preceding December 31, 2006, and we had an accumulated deficit of $191.6 million as of December 31, 2006. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which makes it more difficult to predict our future operating results. We cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or our expenses will decrease at rates that will allow us to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, we expect to recognize an increasing portion of our revenue ratably over a period of time rather than at the time of invoice. In the near term, this may have an adverse effect on our revenue and net income, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult to predict our quarterly results and causes variability in our operating results. We have a long sales cycle, often several months or quarters, because our clients often need to make large expenditures and invest substantial resources in order to take advantage of our products and services and also because we generally need to educate potential customers about the use and benefits of our products and services. This long sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses in anticipation of selling our products, and if we do not achieve the level of revenues we expected, our operating results will suffer and our stock price may decline. Further, our potential customers frequently need to obtain approvals from multiple decision makers before making purchase decisions. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular period. Our common stock price has historically been volatile and will probably continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.58 per share to $126.88 per share since our initial public offering in July 1999 and has ranged from $1.83 per share to $3.81 per share between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of software companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors among others, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results, in particular, our ability to meet the expectations of brokerage firms, industry analysts and investors; • changes in market valuations of software companies; 11 Table of Contents • our announcement of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • timing of completion of significant sales; • additions or departures of our key personnel; or • future sales of our common stock. If the market for e-commerce does not continue to grow, then demand for our products and services may decrease. Our success depends heavily on the continued use of the Internet for e-commerce. Many companies continue to rely primarily or exclusively on traditional means of commerce and may be reluctant to change their patterns of commerce. For our customers and potential customers to be willing to invest in our electronic commerce and online marketing, sales and service applications, the Internet must continue to be accepted and widely used for commerce and communication. If Internet commerce does not grow or grows more slowly than expected, then our future revenues and profits may not meet our expectations or those of analysts. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for online business applications, then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products is constantly and rapidly evolving, as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products, retire older ones, and react to changes in Internet-related technology and customer demands, coalescence of product differentiators, product commoditization and evolving industry standards. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products or product enhancements that comply with present or emerging Internet technology standards or differentiate our products based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances with operating system and infrastructure vendors that will permit migration or upgrade opportunities for our current user base. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we need to enhance our current products and develop new products on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs, satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers and leverage strategic alliances with third parties in the e-commerce field who have complementary or competing products. E-commerce technology is complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. We face intense competition in the market for online commerce applications and services, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to remain competitive, then our revenues may decline, which could adversely affect our future operating results and our ability to grow our business. A number of competitive factors could cause us to lose potential sales or to sell our products and services at lower prices or at reduced margins, including, among others: • Potential clients or partners may choose to develop e-commerce applications in-house, rather than paying for our products or services. • Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do, allowing them to leverage a larger installed customer base and distribution network, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive sales terms, adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. • Our suite of service products competes against various vendor software tools designed to address a specific element or elements of the complete set of eService processes, including e-mail management, support, knowledge management, and web-based customer self-service and assisted service. 12 Table of Contents • Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and expand their markets. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. • Some of our current and potential competitors, especially our larger competitors like IBM that offer broad suites of computer and software applications may offer free or low-cost e-commerce applications and functionality bundled with their own computer and software products. Potential customers may not see the need to buy our products and services separately when they can use the bundled applications and functionality in our competitors’ product suites for little or no additional cost. If the market for our OnDemand service offerings does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, then our business could be negatively affected. Our OnDemand hosted service and subscription offerings are at an early stage of development, and we may not achieve or sustain demand for these offerings. Our success in this effort will depend in part on the price, performance and availability of our products and services in comparison with competing products and services and on the willingness of companies to increase their use of hosting applications. While we will continue to market and sell traditional licenses for our software solutions, we believe that the widespread market acceptance of our hosting software solutions is important to the success of our business because of the growth acceleration opportunities. If our clients experience interruptions, delays or failures in our hosted services, then we could incur significant costs and lose revenue opportunities. Our OnDemand hosted service offering is at an early stage of development and any equipment failures, mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume or failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any such interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or accidental or willful security breaches, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause our clients to decide not to renew their hosting agreements, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend heavily on key employees in a competitive labor market. Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled personnel, especially in the areas of management, finance, sales, marketing and research and development, and we compete with other companies for a small pool of highly qualified employees. Members of our management team, including executives with significant responsibilities in these areas, have left us during the past few years for a variety of reasons, and there may be additional departures in the future. These historical and potential future changes in personnel may be disruptive to our operations or affect our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, equity incentives such as stock options constitute an important part of our total compensation program for employees, and the volatility or lack of positive performance of our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain our employees or hire replacements. If we fail to anticipate and address the risks associated with eStara’s business, then our business could be harmed. The integration of the business and operations of eStara, Inc., which we acquired in October 2006, into our business and operations is an important process. In order to be successful, we need to retain key eStara personnel and also understand and address the risks associated with eStara’s business and products. For example, it is possible that the market for eStara’s Click to Call and Click to Chat products may be more limited than we anticipated or that eStara’s technology may infringe upon a third party’s intellectual property. If we fail to successfully integrate eStara’s business and operations, retain valuable eStara personnel and address the risks associated with our acquisition of its business, then we could fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and the disruption caused by the acquisition could hurt our business. 13 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs defending against a claim of infringement or protecting our intellectual property from infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing Internet-related products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our technology infringes its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. For example, we have been involved in litigation alleging that we have infringed United States patents owned by third parties. We may be required to incur substantial costs in defending infringement litigation in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify customers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, our customers have been subject to third party patent claims and we have agreed to indemnify these customers to the extent the claims related to our products. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party may force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign those products or services to avoid infringement. We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software under a combination of patent, copyright and trade secrets law. However, because we make the source code available to some customers, third parties may be more likely to misappropriate it. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers and to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for someone to copy our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. However, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Any such resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. Finally, our professional services may involve the development of custom software applications for specific customers. In some cases, customers retain ownership or impose restrictions on our ability to use the technologies developed from these projects. Issues relating to the ownership of software can be complicated, and disputes could arise that affect our ability to resell or reuse applications we develop for customers. If we fail to maintain our existing customer base, then our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from existing customers that purchase our support and maintenance services and license enhanced versions of our products. If we are unable to continue to obtain significant revenues from our existing customer base, then our ability to grow our business would be harmed, and our competitors could achieve greater market share. To retain our existing customer base, we must: • provide high levels of customer service and product support to help our clients maximize the benefits that they derive from our products; 14 Table of Contents • remain competitive by introducing enhancements and new versions of our products that provide additional functionality; and • manage the transition from our older products so as to minimize the disruption to our clients caused by the migration and integration with the clients’ information technology platform. If we fail to address the challenges associated with our international operations, then revenues from our products and services may decline, and the costs of providing our products or services may increase. At December 31, 2006, we had offices in the United Kingdom, France, Northern Ireland, Canada and Singapore. We derived 25% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2006 and 24% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005 from customers outside the United States. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in regulatory requirements, exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable in Western Europe and Asia; • difficulties in managing systems integrators and technology partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; • differing technology standards; • difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into foreign languages for countries in which English is not the primary language; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate; • difficulties related to entering into legal contracts under local laws and in foreign languages; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between foreign and United States currency; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants in our line of credit, or if our bank refuses to renew this facility, then our liquidity could be impaired. We have a revolving line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank that allows us to borrow up to $20.0 million. Our bank had issued letters of credit totaling $5.3 million to several of our landlords to secure our lease obligations, which letters of credit are supported by this facility. This line of credit will expire on January 31, 2008. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants or default on any of the provisions of our loan agreement, then the bank may, among other things, declare all obligations immediately due and payable, cease to advance money or extend credit for our benefit and require our outstanding letters of credit to be cash secured. At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants in our loan agreement. If in response to any future default the bank declared our obligations due, or required us to secure each outstanding letter of credit on a dollar for dollar basis, then our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances would decrease substantially, and our liquidity could be materially impaired. We may need additional financing in the future, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or respond to unanticipated situations. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us 15 Table of Contents on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The terms of these securities, as well as any borrowings under our credit agreement, could impose restrictions on our operations. If systems integrators or value added resellers reduce their support and implementation of our products, then our revenues may fail to meet expectations and our operating results would suffer. Since our potential customers often rely on third-party systems integrators to develop, deploy and manage websites for conducting commerce on the Internet, we cultivate relationships with systems integrators to encourage them to support our products. We do not, however, generally have written agreements with our systems integrators, and they are not required to implement solutions that include our products or to maintain minimum sales levels of our products. Our revenues would be reduced if we fail to train a sufficient number of systems integrators adequately or if systems integrators devote their efforts to integrating or co-selling products of other companies. Any such reduction in revenue would not be accompanied by a significant offset in our expenses. As a result, our operating results would suffer, and the price of our common stock would probably fall. If our software products contain serious errors or defects, then we may lose revenues and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by our customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance. Since our customers use our products for critical business applications such as e-commerce, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our customers. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our products. If the Sun® Javatm programming language loses market acceptance or if we are not able to continue using Java technologies, then our business could be harmed. We write our software in the Java computer programming language developed by Sun Microsystems, and we incorporate Sun’s Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition, or J2EE, and other Java technologies into our products under licenses granted to us by Sun. If Sun were to decline to continue to allow us to use these technologies for any reason, we would be required to either license the equivalent technology from another source, create equivalent technology ourselves, or rewrite portions of our software to accommodate the change. While a number of companies have introduced web applications based on Java technology, this technology could fall out of favor, and support by Sun Microsystems or other companies could decline. Moreover, our new Version 7 ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine is designed to support J2EE standards for developing modular Java programs that can be accessed over a network. We have licensed the J2EE brand and certification tests from Sun. There can be no assurance that these standards will be widely adopted, that we can continue to support J2EE standards established by Sun from time to time or that the J2EE brand will continue to be made available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If Java or J2EE support decreased or we could not continue to use Java or related Java technologies or to support J2EE, we might have to rewrite the source code for our entire product line to enable our products to run on other computer platforms. Also, changes to Java or J2EE standards or the loss of our license to the J2EE brand could require us to change our products and adversely affect the perception of our products by our customers. If we were unable to develop or implement appropriate modifications to our products on a timely basis, we could lose revenue opportunities and our business could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents Government or industry regulations could directly restrict our business or indirectly affect our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. As e-commerce evolves, federal, state and foreign agencies have adopted and could in the future adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, content and taxation of products and services. Government regulations could limit the market for our products and services or impose burdensome requirements that render our business unprofitable. Although many regulations might not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could indirectly affect our business. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in web usage and decrease its acceptance as a medium of communications and commerce. The Internet is generating privacy concerns that could result in legislation or market perceptions that could result in reduced sales of our products and harm our business. Businesses use our ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product to develop and maintain profiles to tailor the content to be provided to website visitors. When a visitor first arrives at a website, our software creates a profile for that visitor. If the visitor registers or logs in, the visitor’s identity is added to the profile, preserving any profile information that was gathered up to that point. ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product tracks both explicit user profile data supplied by the user as well as implicit profile attributes derived from the user’s behavior on the website. Privacy concerns may cause visitors to resist providing the personal data or to avoid websites that track the web behavioral information necessary to support our profiling capability. More importantly, even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used to direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Other countries and political entities, such as the European Economic Community, have adopted such legislation or regulatory requirements, and the United States may follow suit. Privacy legislation and consumer privacy concerns could make it harder for us to sell our products and services, resulting in reduced revenues. Our products use “cookies” to track demographic information and user preferences. A “cookie” is information keyed to a specific user that is stored on a computer’s hard drive, typically without the user’s knowledge. The user can generally remove the cookies, although removal could affect the content available on a particular site. Germany has imposed laws limiting the use of cookies, and a number of Internet commentators and governmental bodies in the United States and other countries have urged passage of laws limiting or abolishing the use of cookies. If such laws are passed or if users begin to delete or refuse cookies as a common practice, then demand for our personalization products could be reduced. If NASDAQ were to delist our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market, then the value of your investment could be reduced, and your shares could be more difficult to sell. For our common stock to trade on The NASDAQ Global Market (formerly known as The NASDAQ National Market), we must continue to meet the listing standards of that market. Among other things, those standards require that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. As recently as October 2005, our common stock has traded at prices near or below $1.00. If we do not continue to meet NASDAQ’s applicable minimum listing standards, NASDAQ could delist us from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could, among other things: • hinder your ability to sell, or obtain an accurate quotation for the price of your shares of our common stock; • hurt our reputation among our investors and prospects, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock; 17 Table of Contents • make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital; and • subject us to a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that could adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock, thus hindering your ability to sell your shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Certain provisions of our charter and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that some of our stockholders may consider favorable, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • providing that directors may only be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of stockholders; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders and prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • authorizing anti-takeover provisions. In addition, we adopted a shareholder rights plan in 2001, and Delaware law may further discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 