Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report for detailed information about the uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to materially differ from the views stated in such forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements and risk factors included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. Our fiscal year ends on December 31 of each calendar year. Each reference to a fiscal year in this Annual Report refers to the fiscal year ending December 31 of the calendar year indicated. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company,” and “deltathree” refer to deltathree, Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview We are a global provider of integrated video and voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, telephony services, products, hosted solutions and infrastructure. We were founded in 1996 to capitalize on the growth of the Internet as a communications tool by commercially offering Internet Protocol, or IP, telephony services, or VoIP telephony. VoIP telephony is the real-time transmission of voice communications in the form of digitized “packets” of information over the Internet or a private network, similar to the way in which e-mail and other data is transmitted. While we began as primarily a low-cost alternative source of wholesale minutes for carriers around the world, we have evolved into an international provider of next generation communication services. Today we support tens of thousands of active users around the globe through our service provider and reseller channel and our direct-to-consumer channel. We have built a privately-managed, state-of-the-art global telecommunications platform using IP technology and we offer a broad suite of private label VoIP products and services as well as a back-office platform. Our operations management tools include, among others: account provisioning; e-commerce-based payment processing systems; billing and account management; operations management; web development; network management; and customer care. Based on our customizable VoIP solutions, these customers can offer private label video and voice-over-IP services to their own customer bases under their own brand name, a “white-label” brand (in which no brand name is indicated and different customers can offer the same product), or the deltathree brand. At the same time, our direct-to-consumer channel includes our joip Mobile application (which is a cellular phone application providing low cost mobile calls over 3G cellular networks as well as WiFi networks) and our iConnectHere offering (which provides VoIP products and services directly to consumers and small businesses online using the same primary platform). We are able to provide our services at a cost per user that is generally lower than that charged by traditional service providers because we minimize our network costs by using efficient packet-switched technology and interconnecting to a wide variety of termination options, which allows us to benefit from pricing differences between vendors to the same termination points. Prior to 1999, we focused on building a privately-managed, global network utilizing IP technology, and our business primarily consisted of carrying and transmitting traffic for communications carriers over our network. Beginning in 1999, we began to diversify our offerings by layering enhanced IP telephony services over our network. These enhanced services were targeted at consumers and were primarily accessible through our consumer website. During 2000, we began offering services on a co-branded or private-label basis to service providers and other businesses to assist them in diversifying their product offerings to their customer bases. In 2001, we continued to enhance our unique strengths through our pioneering work with the Session Initiation Protocol, or SIP, an Internet Engineering Task Force standard that has been embraced by industry leaders such as Microsoft and Cisco. These efforts culminated in the launch of our state-of-the-art SIP infrastructure, and in doing so we became the first major VoIP service provider to deploy an end-to-end SIP network and services. In recent years, we have continued our pioneering efforts in SIP and these efforts have yielded significant new releases. In 2009 we began the process of expanding the suite of our communications offerings into the global video phone services market. In the third quarter of 2009 we entered into an agreement with ACN Pacific Pty Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, Inc., or ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP services in Australia and New Zealand to ACN Pacific. In December 2010 we entered into an agreement with ACN Korea, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP services in Korea. 3 In 2010 we continued to update our network by adding a video mail feature to our video phone applications and launching our joip mobile application in July 2010. Following the launch of the mobile application, in October 2010 we entered into a sales agency agreement with ACN pursuant to which ACN sells a private label version of joip Mobile under the ACN Mobile World brand in the United States and Canada. In addition, we offer the joip Mobile application on a white-label basis to other customers. Finally, we entered into affiliate agreements with different third parties pursuant to which such third parties refer potential subscribers to our joip Mobile application. In April 2011 we entered into an introducer agreement with ACN Europe B.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which ACN Europe refers potential customers in different countries in Europe to a private label version of joip Mobile sold under the ACN Mobile World brand. In November 2011 we entered into a service agreement with Momentis U.S. Corp., a multi-level marketing company, pursuant to which Momentis refers potential customers in North America to a co-branded offering of joip Mobile and other consumer VoIP products and services. On April 3, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our sales agency agreement with ACN and our introducer agreement with ACN Europe. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment, beginning April 1, 2012, we are required to pay all then-current commissions on a timely basis as required under the agreements and a late fee in the amount of one percent per month of any past-due, unpaid commissions (which, as of December 31, 2012, was equal to approximately $812,000). In addition, beginning July 15, 2012, we are required to pay down any unpaid past due amounts in an amount equal to at least $15,000 per month through June 15, 2013, and at least $25,000 per month thereafter until such time as the unpaid balance is paid in full, and are required to pay in full any unpaid, past due amounts upon 30 days' notice. In July 2012 we began making the $15,000 monthly payment. In addition, in the event of certain insolvency-related events defined in the agreements, all unpaid amounts will become immediately due and payable effective immediately prior to such event. As a complement to the initiatives we have taken to attempt to organically expand our businesses, we have also evaluated opportunities for growth through strategic relationships. In February 2009 we consummated a transaction with D4 Holdings pursuant to which we sold to D4 Holdings an aggregate of 39,000,000 shares of our common stock and a warrant to purchase up to an additional 30,000,000 shares of our common stock. D4 Holdings is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN, a direct seller of telecommunications services. As a result of the transactions with D4 Holdings, we expect to continue to seek opportunities to provide services to ACN and enter into other commercial transactions that give us access to ACN’s international marketing and distribution capabilities. From an operational standpoint, in 2012 we continued to focus our near-term strategy and market initiatives on growing our service provider and digital next generation communications offerings while still supporting our core VoIP reseller and direct-to-consumer business segments. Going forward, we expect to: • actively market our products and services to those entities that wish to offer white-label digital next generation communications offerings or sell our products and services on an affiliate basis; • pursue a targeted strategy of identifying and evaluating appropriate strategic collaborations, such as potentially engaging in commercial transactions with ACN, that we hope will continue to expand and diversify our customer base; • market and sell our direct-to-consumer products and services through affiliates and our affiliate program; and • support and maintain our current reseller base, as we expect our revenue from this key channel will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total revenue in the foreseeable future. Transactions with D4 Holdings On February 10, 2009, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with D4 Holdings LLC, or D4 Holdings, pursuant to which we issued to D4 Holdings (i) 39,000,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 54.3% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock following the transaction, for an aggregate purchase price of $1,170,000, paid in cash, and (ii) a warrant, exercisable for ten years, to purchase up to an additional 30,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.04 per share. The transaction closed on February 12, 2009. Upon the closing of the transaction and pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Noam Bardin resigned as a director and the board of directors appointed Robert Stevanovski and Anthony Cassara to serve on the board. In addition, Lior Samuelson resigned as Chairman of the Board and remained a director, and Robert Stevanovski was appointed to serve as Chairman. Following the closing of the transaction, our Board of Directors appointed three additional directors to serve on the Board. The appointments of the three new directors became effective on March 28, 2009. 4 In connection with the transaction, the parties also entered into an Investor Rights Agreement, pursuant to which we have agreed to file, upon the request of D4 Holdings, a registration statement covering the resale of any shares of our common stock held by D4 Holdings (including the shares of common stock underlying the warrant issued to D4 Holdings). Subject to our ability to suspend the effectiveness of the registration statement for a limited period of time under certain circumstances, we are required to maintain the effectiveness of any such registration statement until the earlier of (i) the date on which all shares of common stock covered by the registration statement have been sold thereunder or (ii) the date on which all such shares of common stock can be sold without registration pursuant to Rule 144 or another similar exemption under the Securities Act of 1933. Subject to certain limitations, D4 Holdings will also be entitled to “piggy-back” registration rights on all future registrations by and any registrations initiated by our other stockholders. On March 1, 2010, we and our subsidiaries entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, or the “First Loan Agreement”, with D4 Holdings pursuant to which D4 Holdings agreed to provide us and our subsidiaries a line of credit in a principal amount of $1,200,000. On August 10, 2010, we and our subsidiaries entered into the Second Loan and Security Agreement, or the “Second Loan Agreement”, with D4 Holdings, pursuant to which D4 Holdings agreed to provide us and subsidiaries an additional line of credit in a principal amount of $1,000,000. In connection with the Second Loan Agreement, we issued D4 Holdings a warrant to purchase up to 4,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.1312 per share. We have drawn down all amounts available to be borrowed under the two lines of credit. On March 2, 2011, we and our subsidiaries entered into the Third Loan and Security Agreement, or the “Third Loan Agreement”, with D4 Holdings, pursuant to which D4 Holdings agreed to provide us and its subsidiaries an additional line of credit in a principal amount of $1,600,000. Pursuant to the terms of the Convertible Promissory Note, or the “Convertible Note”, issued by us in connection with the Third Loan Agreement, D4 Holdings may elect to convert all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount under the Convertible Note into that number of shares of the our common stock determined by dividing such principal amount by $0.08 (as may be adjusted under the terms of the Convertible Note). Simultaneous with our entering into the Third Loan Agreement, D4 Holdings and we entered into an amendment of the First Loan Agreement, pursuant to which (among other things) the maturity date for repayment of principal under the First Loan Agreement was extended from March 1, 2011, to March 1, 2012, and subsequently extended by oral agreement of the parties to July 1, 2012, and then subsequently orally extended again to January 2, 2014, pending the parties finalizing and entering into a formal amendment. In connection with the Third Loan Agreement, we issued D4 Holdings a warrant to purchase up to 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.096 per share. We have drawn down the aggregate principal amount available under the Third Loan Agreement, the principal amount of which can be converted by D4 Holdings into an aggregate of 20,000,000 shares of our common stock. On September 12, 2011, we and our subsidiaries entered into the Fourth Loan and Security Agreement, or the “Fourth Loan Agreement”, with D4 Holdings, pursuant to which D4 Holdings agreed to provide us and our subsidiaries an additional line of credit in a principal amount of $300,000. To date we have received advances in the aggregate amount of $200,000 from D4 Holdings pursuant to notices of borrowing under the Fourth Loan Agreement. On November 13, 2012, we and our subsidiaries entered into the Third Amendment to Loan and Security Agreements, or the "Third Amendment", and the Amendment to Warrant Agreements, or the "Warrants Amendment", with D4 Holdings. Pursuant to the Third Amendment and the Warrants Amendment: · the maturity date for repayment of principal and interest under the First Loan Agreement was extended to January 2, 2014; · the maturity date for repayment of principal and interest under the Second Loan Agreement was extended to January 2, 2015; · the maturity date for repayment of principal and interest under each of the Third and Fourth Loan Agreements was extended to January 2, 2016; · all interest outstanding under each of the loan agreements was added to the principal amount outstanding under the respective loan agreement and the promissory notes issued pursuant to each respective loan agreement was increased by such amount; and · the exercise price under each of the Warrant Agreements entered into by us and D4 Holdings as of February 12, 2009, August 10, 2010, and March 2, 2011 was amended to $0.02 per share. In connection with the extension of the maturity dates under the Third Amendment, we issued to D4 Holdings a Warrant, exercisable for ten years, to purchase up to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per share. Industry Background VoIP technology translates voice into data packets, transmits the packets over data networks such as the Internet or privately managed networks (such as our network), and reconverts them into voice at the destination. Unlike traditional telephone networks, VoIP does not use dedicated circuits for each telephone call; instead, the same VoIP network can be shared by multiple users for voice, data and video simultaneously. This type of data network is more efficient than a dedicated circuit network because the data network is not restricted by the one-call, one-line limitation of a traditional telephone network and, as a result, greater traffic can be transmitted over this data network. This improved efficiency creates cost savings that can be passed on to consumers in the form of lower rates or retained by the VoIP provider. Significant cost savings are also achieved for international telephone calls carried over data networks primarily because they bypass the international settlement process, which represents a significant portion of international long distance tariffs. Additionally, VoIP allows for features that are not available on traditional telephony networks - particularly at the consumer level - including voice mail to email forwarding, find me/follow me, web-based control of call forwarding preferences, user account review/revision and a host of other features and functions. 5 Beyond cost savings, we believe that VoIP telephony technologies will further the potential for the Internet to become the preferred medium of communications and commerce. As a result, VoIP has experienced significant growth in recent years due to: · improved quality and reliability of VoIP calls due to technological advances, increased network development and greater bandwidth capacity; · new product development that allows VoIP providers to offer services not currently offered by traditional telephone companies; · greatly improved ease of use, whereby the end-user does not perceive a difference between use of a traditional telephone and a broadband telephone; · increasing demand for long distance communication services driven by the increased mobility of the global workforce; and · increasing demand for lower cost telephone service around the world.. As a result of these growth trends, various service providers, enterprises and consumers are continuing to procure offerings from VoIP providers such as deltathree. Specifically, consumers in emerging markets are increasingly using VoIP-enabled services, such as IP telephones, to realize significant cost savings on long distance and international calls, while in markets where a significant number of consumers have access to broadband internet services these consumers are increasingly viewing VoIP as a viable and more affordable substitute for their traditional voice telecommunications provider. In addition, as broadband connectivity has become more available and less expensive around the world, it is now possible for providers like us to offer video as well as voice services to businesses and residential consumers. Our Products and Services Products We have built a privately-managed, global network using IP technology and offer our customers a suite of IP video and voice products. Our products include: joip Mobile Application. Our joip Mobile application is a cellular phone application providing low cost mobile calls over 3G cellular networks as well as WiFi networks. Cellular operating systems supported by joip Mobile currently include the iPhone, Google Android, Nokia Symbian and Blackberry. Digital Video and Voice-over-IP Services. Through the use of our network we offer a white-label solution in which our customers have the ability to customize, implement and rapidly launch digital next generation communications offerings with minimal risk and investment. For our potential partners, we offer a full spectrum of service provider back-end support services, including network management, billing, provisioning, e-commerce as well as custom web and application development. Broadband Phone. Our Broadband Phone product is a phone replacement solution available to business and retail customers over the "last mile" through broadband connections via cable modem, DSL or fixed wireless. In addition to offering capabilities similar to those offered by traditional telephony providers and allowing users to use their existing phone, Broadband Phone enables a user to conveniently operate features and retrieve voice mail through email, web or a phone interface. PC-to-Phone. Our PC-to-Phone offering enables a user to conveniently and inexpensively place a call to a standard telephone anywhere in the world directly from a personal computer while remaining on-line. Services We provide a robust set of value-added services that enables us to address the challenges that have traditionally made the provision of telecommunications services difficult. These operations management tools include the following: · video mail: we provide a video mail feature for our video phone applications; · account provisioning: we provide our service provider and reseller customers with a dedicated Web page through which they can order additional services or accounts, generate and activate PINs and perform other customary implementation functions; · payment processing systems: we provide our customers with a fraud detection and prevention system to permit secure credit card transactions over the Web; · billing and account management: we provide our customers with real-time, Web-based access to billing records to check billing and usage information or to increase prepaid accounts; 6 · customer care: we have moved and consolidated traditional first tier customer care functions onto the Web for ease and flexibility and support this with second tier customer care; and · network operations care: we provide a Network Operations Center, or NOC, automated trouble ticket system, which enables our customers to submit, manage, and follow-up with technical questions and issues online. The provision of VoIP products and services through our service provider and reseller sales channel and our direct-to-consumer channel accounted for 66.2% and 30.7% of our total revenues in 2012, respectively. Our Distribution Channels We market, support and distribute our products and services to tens of thousands of active users around the globe through our service provider and reseller channel and our direct-to-consumer channel. Service Provider and Reseller Channel We have developed high-value solutions for the large number of service providers and resellers that are focused on providing their customers with video and voice-over-IP products and services. Our Hosted Consumer VoIP Solution leverages our VoIP experience and delivers to our service providers, resellers, and various corporate customers a customizable, private-label suite of VoIP products and services. Using our infrastructure, we enable these enterprises to offer their customers different combinations of our basic products and services, accessible through a single account. Direct-to-Consumer Channel Our direct-to-consumer channel includes our joip Mobile application, which is a cellular phone application providing low cost mobile calls over 3G cellular networks as well as WiFi networks and our iConnectHere offering, which provides VoIP products and services directly to consumers and small businesses online. joip Mobile. joip Mobile is our cellular phone application providing low cost mobile calls over 3G cellular networks as well as WiFi networks. We market and sell joip Mobile directly to consumers as well as through affiliates and our affiliate program. In addition, ACN sells a private label version of joip Mobile under the ACN Mobile World brand. Other Consumer Offerings. Our other consumer offerings, including iConnectHere and joip, demonstrate our products, services and hosting capabilities to our reseller customers and service providers. Through our other consumer offerings, an account holder can access all of our product offerings, including Broadband Phone and PC-to-Phone. Additionally, our consumer offerings permit us to collect usage information on our products and services and enable us to provide our service provider and reseller customers with key information and recommendations regarding implementation of our products and services. Through our other consumer offerings, consumer users can: • sign up for any of our services, including Broadband Phone, PC-to-Phone and our joip offering; • download our software and/or order IP-based Broadband Phone devices; • recharge their accounts, either by entering their credit card information or authorizing automatic recharging; • send a PC-to-Phone call; • check real-time billing and usage information; • communicate by e-mail with a customer service representative; and • view answers to frequently-asked questions. Our Strategy Our strategy is to become a leading worldwide next generation service provider and enabler of video and voice-over-IP products and services, and to either sell our products and services on a white-label basis to other customers (who can then resell these products and services) or enter into affiliate agreements with different third parties pursuant to which such third parties refer potential subscribers to our products and services. The following are key elements of our strategy: Capitalize on the Growth of the Video and Voice-over-IP Marketplace. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the expected growth of the video and voice-over-IP services markets. We plan to focus our efforts and resources on increasing our share of the next generation service provider and enabler market while simultaneously maintaining our reseller business. We also allow our direct consumers to sign up for one account and choose a number of next generation communication services and products linked to that account. 7 Offer Flexible and Modular Deployment Alternatives. We offer our service providers and resellers a choice of deployment alternatives ranging from full outsourcing to partial outsourcing through our modular offering suite. Depending on the particular needs of each of our customers, we design our offering to fit within their business objectives, available resources and desired level of participation. We can develop and integrate specific features and functions into our package, such as various network elements, access components, fulfillment, and the specific feature/functions the provider can offer to its end-users. Pursue Strategic Relationships. In addition to our strategy and actions to grow organically as described above, we also actively evaluate and pursue appropriate strategic relationships that we believe will continue to expand our customer base and grow our revenues. As discussed above under “ - Transactions with D4 Holdings”, in February 2009 we consummated a transaction with D4 Holdings pursuant to which we sold 39,000,000 shares of our common stock and a warrant to purchase up to an additional 30,000,000 shares of our common stock. D4 Holdings is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN, a direct seller of telecommunications services. In October 2010 we entered into a sales agency agreement with ACN pursuant to which ACN sells a private label version of joip Mobile under the ACN Mobile World brand. In December 2010 we entered into an agreement with ACN Korea, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP services in Korea. In April 2011 we entered into an introducer agreement with ACN Europe B.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which ACN Europe refers potential customers in different countries in Europe to a private label version of joip Mobile sold under the ACN Mobile World brand. As a result of the investment in our company by D4 Holdings, we expect to continue to seek opportunities to provide services to ACN and enter into other commercial transactions that give us access to ACN’s international marketing and distribution capabilities. Sales and Marketing We sell and market our products and services through our service provider and reseller channel and our direct-to-consumer channel. In general, our sales and marketing activities include: • developing, deploying and supporting local-specific product features and services, such as multiple language capabilities, different currency capabilities, and various payment methods; • engaging in strategic relationships with customers (including licensed providers); • entering into relationships with affiliates that sell our products and services, generally as part of our affiliate programs; and • using various on-line advertising and search strategies to target and optimize sales efforts. Service Provider and Reseller Channel Service Providers. Our experience in deploying sophisticated solutions provides us with leverage as we introduce these services to other service providers. Reseller Program. Through our reseller program, we contract with smaller service providers and resellers around the world, which in turn sell our products and services under their own brand, a white-label brand or our deltathree brand to retailers, businesses, Internet cafés and others in their local markets. Our experience in providing differentiated VoIP solutions in the emerging international telecommunications environment enables us to effectively enter new markets as they open to competition. Direct-to-Consumer Channel joip Mobile. Our joip Mobile application is provided by us directly to consumers as well as through our affiliate program. In addition, ACN sells a private label version of joip Mobile under the ACN Mobile World brand through its independent sales representatives. Finally, we offer the joip Mobile application on a white-label basis to other customers. iConnectHere. iConnectHere provides VoIP products and services directly to consumers and small businesses online. Through iConnectHere, an account holder can access all of our product offerings, including Broadband Phone and PC-to-Phone. Our Infrastructure Network In order to deliver our products and services, we operate a privately-managed IP network. By managing our own network, we have the ability to regulate traffic volumes and to directly control the quality of service from each originating point of presence, or POP, to the termination point via a variety of termination options. Our ability to interconnect to a wide variety of termination options increases the diversity and robustness of our network, minimizes and eliminates single points of failure, and simultaneously allows us to benefit from pricing differences between vendors to the same termination points. In addition, our network allows us to avoid the significant transmission delays associated with the Internet, which may impede delivery of high quality, reliable services to our users. 8 In 2001, we introduced our SIP infrastructure. The SIP protocol is one of the most advanced VoIP protocols and, unlike its predecessors, which were modeled after traditional telephony protocols, SIP has the ability to scale with a distributed architecture and at a lower cost. SIP’s superior attributes also include faster and more cost effective development and lower hardware requirements, which allows us to incur lower capital expenditure costs. Our SIP network currently powers all of our offerings. In recent years, we have continued our pioneering efforts in SIP and these efforts have yielded significant new releases. For example, in 2007 we released a next generation SIP-based PC-to-Phone application, certified many new devices which function as access points to our services, and added new features and new calling plans to our offerings. In 2009 we began the process of expanding the suite of our communications offerings into the global video phone services market. We are continuing to update our network capabilities by adding content enabled services to our video phone applications and providing mobile applications. Our network is built around a high availability backbone that connects New Jersey, Atlanta, London and Sydney. In each of, and between, these locations we maintain multiple interconnections or peering arrangements with Internet backbone and voice providers. These points are strategically located to allow access from our network to and from the Internet with a high level of performance. While operating as a private extension of the Internet, our backbone has a high level of security designed to isolate it from security threats found on the public Internet. Access to our network is possible through several products and services. A call can originate from a mobile phone using our joip Mobile application, the PC-to-Phone product using our downloadable software application “soft-phones,” a Web browser, or Broadband Phone devices. These calls enter our network from the Internet through our interconnection points. Our network can terminate calls through our and our termination providers’ POPs. Termination decisions are based on a sophisticated routing system that applies routing rules based on origination point, termination cost and other factors. These rules are consistently updated to ensure a high level of quality and economic efficiency. Each termination port is carefully managed with capacity planning tools and techniques to provide cost-effective service to customers, along with multiple termination options to ensure the highest possible levels of redundancy. We are a party to service agreements with several telecommunications providers, including foreign telephone companies, Internet backbone providers and others. Pursuant to these agreements, we can transport video and voice data packets to our hubs and terminate calls throughout the world in a cost effective and efficient manner. Support Our NOC monitors and manages our network from a central location, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. The NOC monitors all aspects of our network, including the routers, databases, switches, leased lines, Internet connections, gatekeepers and gateways to ensure that they are functioning at optimal levels. In the event of a failure of any of these network components, NOC personnel are provided with a real time, systems-generated notification via an instant messaging system consisting of pagers, cellular phones, screen pop-ups and e-mail that identifies the malfunction so that proper measures can be taken to restore service in a timely fashion. Our NOC utilizes a combination of industry technologies as well as unique applications developed by us. The NOC serves all of the different parts of our operations environment, including network nodes, Web servers and specific applications. We provide customer support on various levels to different customers. With respect to our service provider and reseller customers, we provide customer care and technical support directly to these customers and they in turn provide their own support directly to the end-users. Customers of joip Mobile, iConnectHere and joip receive technical support and customer care through e-mail support. Our services are supported by our on-line interactive customer service and billing center, which enables an end-user to set up an account, receive an account number and a PIN, pay by credit card for services, find answers to frequently asked questions and contact customer service representatives. Once a user has established an account, the user can prepay for additional usage by credit card as well as access real-time detailed information such as call logs and transaction records. Through the on-line billing system, a user can personalize the billing information to select the data most relevant to them. This on-line interactive customer service and billing center is supported by a human customer care contact center that provides voice, e-mail and instant messaging support to the customers. Suppliers We outsource to third-party vendors the provisioning of certain of our local telecommunications services, including local phone numbers, access to the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, operator assistance, directory listings and assistance, E-911 emergency services and local number portability. We also outsource the development of our applications and certain of the features ancillary to our services, as well as provisioning of our consumer premises equipment, such as our analog telephone adapters, IP Phones and gateways, and certain aspects of our customer care services. We do not rely on any one specific vendor for providing these services, except for E-911 emergency services and certain specific services of customer care. While we believe our relations with our suppliers are good, we believe that we could replace our suppliers if necessary and that although our ability to provide services to our customers may be impacted in such a case we do not expect that this would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 9 Proprietary Rights We rely and expect to be able to rely on trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, strategic partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered trademarks for “deltathree”, “deltathree making VoIP work for you”, “the IP Communications Network”, “iConnectHere”, “joip”, “joipy”, “joip just talk”, “Click It”, “iconnecthere.com” and other trademarks in the United States and internationally. In connection with our acquisition of the Go2Call businesses, we acquired the “Go2Call” trademark and a variety of trademarked derivatives of “Go2Call”. These trademarks may not provide adequate protection against competitive technology and may not be held valid and enforceable if challenged. We do not own any registered copyrights. To further safeguard our intellectual property, we have a policy that requires our employees and contractors to execute confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements when they begin their relationships with us. Regulation Regulatory Environment Overview The use of the Internet and private IP networks to provide VoIP service is a relatively recent market development. Although the provision of such services is currently not as regulated as traditional telephony services within the United States, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has applied some regulation to certain types of VoIP services and is reviewing whether to apply additional regulations to VoIP services. In addition, several foreign governments have adopted or proposed regulations that could restrict or prohibit the provision of VoIP services. Regulation of Internet telephony providers and services may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects, particularly if increased numbers of governments impose regulations restricting the use and sale of IP telephony services. In addition, to the extent we become required to contribute to regulatory funds and collect and remit regulatory fees, taxes and surcharges this will increases our costs, which may result in either our increasing the retail price of our service offerings or reducing our profitability. Federal Regulation Regulatory Classification of VoIP Services Although there are several regulatory proceedings currently pending before federal authorities, providers of interconnected VoIP services are lightly regulated compared to providers of traditional telecommunications services. On February 12, 2004, the FCC initiated a generic rulemaking proceeding concerning the provision of voice and other services using IP technology, including assessing whether VoIP services should be classified as information services or telecommunications services. The rulemaking is ongoing and we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. In November 2004, the FCC determined that certain interconnected VoIP services (meaning VoIP services that can be used to send and receive calls to or from the PSTN), including some services that are similar to ours, should be considered interstate services subject to federal rather than state jurisdiction. Although this ruling was appealed by several states, on March 21, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the FCC’s determination. The FCC’s generic rulemaking proceeding could result in the FCC determining, for instance, that certain types of Internet telephony should be regulated like basic telecommunications services. Thus, Internet telephony would no longer be exempt from more onerous telecommunications-related regulatory obligations, could potentially become subject to state telecommunications regulations, and could become subject to other economic regulations typically imposed on traditional telecommunications carriers. VoIP E-911 Matters On June 3, 2005, the FCC released an order and notice of proposed rulemaking concerning VoIP emergency 911 services. The order set forth two primary requirements for providers of interconnected VoIP services. The order applies to our iConnectHere and joip customers, or our direct consumers. We do not believe that we are responsible for compliance with this order when we sell our service wholesale to companies who then offer the service to retail end-users. We cannot predict whether we would be subject to any third-party litigation in connection with such customers who resell our services or whether the rules will be interpreted as applicable to those who wholesale interconnected VoIP services. The order set forth two primary requirements for providers of interconnected VoIP services. First, the order requires providers of interconnected VoIP services like us to notify our retail customers of the differences between the emergency services available through our offerings and those available through traditional telephony providers. We also had to receive affirmative acknowledgment from some of our retail customers that they understand the nature of the emergency services available through our service. On September 27, 2005, the FCC's Enforcement Bureau released an order stating that the Enforcement Bureau will not pursue enforcement actions against interconnected VoIP providers that have received affirmative acknowledgement from at least 90% of their subscribers. We received affirmative acknowledgment from more than 95% of our relevant customers that they understand the nature of the emergency services available through our service, and thus we believe we are substantially in compliance with the first aspect of the FCC's June 3 order. 10 Second, the order required providers of interconnected VoIP services like us to offer enhanced emergency dialing capabilities, or E-911, to all of our retail customers by November 28, 2005. Under the terms of the order, we are required to use the dedicated wireline E-911 network to transmit customers' 911 calls, callback number and customer-provided location information to the emergency authority serving the customer's specified location. On November 7, 2005, the FCC's Enforcement Bureau issued a Public Notice with respect to that requirement. The Public Notice indicated that providers who have not fully complied with the enhanced emergency dialing capabilities requirement are not required to discontinue the provision of services to existing customers, but that the FCC expects that such providers will discontinue marketing their services and accepting new customers in areas in which the providers cannot offer enhanced emergency dialing capabilities where such capabilities are otherwise available. Almost all of our retail customers currently receive E-911 service in conformity with the FCC’s order. Like many interconnected VoIP providers, we rely on third parties to route emergency calls originated by our customers. In certain instances and for some of our customers, the third party provider may route 911 calls to an unofficial emergency call center. Such unofficial call centers may not be able to receive appropriate call back information. To the extent that they are so able or callers provide their location information the emergency dispatchers in such call centers may not then be able to route such calls to the appropriate public safety answering point. The FCC could find that routing calls in this manner violates its rules, potentially subjecting us to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties. Moreover, some customers who were receiving service prior to the FCC’s deadline for compliance with the E-911 regulations may not receive such service. The FCC permitted service providers to continue to provide service to those existing customers rather than disconnect those customers. Pursuant to the FCC’s requirement, after the implementation of the FCC E-911 requirements, we provide services to our new retail customers only where we can provide the FCC required E-911 service. We may be required to stop serving those customers to whom we cannot provide the required enhanced emergency dialing capabilities that were being serviced prior to the issuance of the FCC’s rules at any time. The FCC is considering modifying its VoIP E-911 rules. In June 2007, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider whether it should impose additional obligations on interconnected VoIP providers. Specifically, the FCC considered mandating that interconnected VoIP providers implement a solution that will allow for automatically determining the location of their customers for purposes of E-911 rather than require customers to manually update their existing location information (as is the case under the current regulations). Moreover, the Notice included a tentative conclusion that interconnected VoIP providers that allow their service to be used in more than one location, like us, be required to meet the same customer location accuracy standards applicable to providers of mobile telecommunications services. In September 2010, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry again requesting comment on, among other issues, whether interconnected VoIP providers should be required to provide automatic location information about their customers rather than requiring customers to self-report their location. Additionally, the Notice of Inquiry sought comment on whether the FCC’s rules concerning the delivery of emergency services should be extended to non-interconnected VoIP services as well as to mobile VoIP applications used on smartphones, computers and other devices. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or their potential impact on our business. See “State and Local Regulation” below for a discussion of fees we may collect in the future in connection with providing E-911. Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA, requires certain communications service providers to assist law enforcement agencies in conducting lawfully authorized electronic surveillance. On September 23, 2005, the FCC released an order concluding that CALEA applies to interconnected VoIP providers. In May 2006 the FCC released an order finding that broadband Internet access service providers and interconnected VoIP providers are required to implement the same type of CALEA requirements that have been applied to wireline telecommunications carriers. These include obligations to (1) ensure that communications equipment, facilities, and services meet interception assistance capability requirements and (2) develop system security policies and procedures to define employee supervision and record retention requirements. As a result of the steps we have taken, we believe that we comply with CALEA. Universal Service Fund The FCC decided in June 2006 that interconnected VoIP service providers should be required to contribute to the universal service fund, or USF. The amount of universal service contribution for interconnected VoIP service providers is based on a percentage of revenues earned from end-user interstate services. The FCC developed three alternatives under which an interconnected VoIP service provider may elect to calculate its universal service contribution: (1) a safe harbor that assumes 64.9% of the provider’s end-user revenues are interstate; (2) a traffic study to determine an allocation for interstate end-user revenues; or (3) actual interstate and international end-user revenues. If an interconnected VoIP service provider calculates its universal service contributions based on its actual percentage of interstate calls, the FCC suggested that its preemption of state regulation of such services may no longer apply, in which case the interconnected VoIP service provider could be subject to regulation by each state in which it operates as well as federal regulation. In addition, the FCC is considering a number of proposals that could alter the way that the USF is assessed. For instance, the FCC is considering an assessment based on the use of telephone numbers. The U.S. Congress may also provide the FCC with additional authority to reform USF or mandate a particular methodology. At this time we cannot predict what impact, if any, USF reform may have on our business. 11 Numerous states may attempt to impose state universal service contribution requirements on interconnected VoIP providers such as deltathree. At this time, various states – including Kansas, Nebraska and New Mexico – claim that they have the right to require interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to their respective USF funds. On March 3, 2008, the U.S. District Court for Nebraska issued a preliminary injunction and found that Nebraska's state Public Service Commission does not have jurisdiction to require Universal Service contributions from VoIP providers. On May 1, 2009, a panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the U.S. District court ruling. In response, the Nebraska and New Mexico state commissions filed a petition with the FCC seeking the authority to impose state USF contribution obligations on interconnected VoIP providers, like us, and the FCC granted the petition. As a result of this ruling, a number of other states have either stated that offerings such as ours may be subject to their respective state USF or are considering imposing such obligations on us. We would likely pass through to our customers in those states any such state USF fees, potentially making our services less competitive with offerings available from traditional providers of telecommunications services, which may cause us to lose customers in those states. In addition, in the past some states have attempted to impose retroactive application of any state USF obligations. Retroactive applicability of any state USF fees would effectively bar us from collecting such fees from our customers, reducing our future profits. Customer Proprietary Network Information On April 2, 2007, the FCC issued an order that tightened existing rules on protection and use of Customer Proprietary Network Information, or CPNI, and extended coverage of the CPNI rules to interconnected VoIP service providers. Among other things, the Order imposes greater obligations on us and other companies like us to protect CPNI, acquire customer consent prior to engaging in certain kinds of marketing efforts based on CPNI, train our employees concerning protecting (and the use of) CPNI and to file formal certifications with the FCC regarding procedures for protecting this information. As a result of the steps we have taken, we believe that we comply with this Order. Access for People with Disabilities Effective October 5, 2007, interconnected VoIP providers like us became required to, among other things, make certain that their equipment and service is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if readily achievable. In addition, interconnected VoIP providers like us became obligated to contribute to the Telecommunications Relay Services, or TRS, fund and to offer 711 abbreviated dialing for access to relay services. Following March 31, 2009, interconnected VoIP providers are required to route such 711 calls to the appropriate TRS relay center serving the state in which the caller is located or the relay center corresponding to the caller’s last registered address. As a result of the steps we have taken, we believe that we comply with the applicable requirements. Regulatory Fees Effective November 2007, the FCC adopted an Order concerning the collection of regulatory fees for Fiscal Year 2007 requiring the collection of such fees from interconnected VoIP providers like us. Like other interconnected VoIP providers, we now pay regulatory fees based on interstate and international revenues. Local Number Portability On November 8, 2007, the FCC released an Order relating to local number portability imposing local number portability, or LNP, and related obligations on interconnected VoIP Providers like us. The Order requires interconnected VoIP providers to contribute to shared numbering administration costs. Additionally, the Order mandates that we process certain kinds of telephone number porting requests within certain timeframes. As a result of the steps we have taken, we believe that we comply with this Order. Subsequently, on May 13, 2009, the FCC released another order concerning LNP that further reduces the porting timeframe for certain types of telephone number porting requests that interconnected VoIP providers, like us, have to process. Since we are not a licensed telecommunications carrier, we must rely on third parties to comply with these porting obligations. If these third parties fail to comply with these obligations we could be subject to fines, forfeitures and other penalties by the FCC or state public utilities commissions or we could face legal liability in state or federal court from customers or carriers. The FCC also released a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to refresh the record on how to further improve the porting process, and how to potentially expand the new one business day porting timeframe to other kinds of ports. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding or its potential impact on us at this time. Intercarrier Compensation The FCC is actively considering reform of the intercarrier compensation system, which is a set of FCC rules and regulations by which telecommunications carriers compensate each other for the use of their respective networks. These rules and regulations affect the prices we pay to our suppliers for access to the facilities and services that they provide to us, such as termination of calls by our customers onto the public switched telephone network. At this time we cannot predict what impact, if any, new intercarrier compensation regulations would have on our business. 12 Discontinuance Requirements In May 2009, the FCC extended discontinuance rules that apply to non-dominant common carriers to interconnected VoIP providers, like us. The FCC's rules require non-dominant domestic carriers to provide notice to customers at least 30 days prior to discontinuing service to a telephone exchange, toll stations serving a community in whole or in part, and other similar activities that affect a community or part of a community. Carriers must inform certain state authorities of the discontinuation, and obtain prior FCC approval before undertaking the service disruption. The FCC's rules allow for streamlined treatment for FCC discontinuance approvals and interconnected VoIP providers will be able to take advantage of the same streamlined procedures afforded to non-dominant carriers. It is not yet clear how these rules apply to interconnected VoIP providers. But in the event we discontinue one of our service offerings in its entirety or if we were to exit the market in whole we would likely have to comply with these new rules. We do not expect these new obligations to have a material impact on our business. Katrina Reporting Requirements In June 2007, the FCC adopted various recommendations from its Independent Panel Reviewing the Impact of Hurricane Katrina on Communications Networks Panel, including a requirement that certain interconnected VoIP providers submit reports regarding the reliability and resiliency of their 9-1-1 systems. At this time, we are not subject to these reporting requirements but may become subject in the future. Open Internet, or “Net Neutrality”, Obligations We rely upon providers of broadband Internet access services to offer our services to our customers. The FCC recently adopted “open Internet” rules that would, among other things, prohibit fixed providers of broadband Internet access services from blocking, impairing or downgrading such access. Wireless providers of broadband Internet access services would be prohibited from blocking VoIP applications like ours. The open Internet rules are not yet effective and, as a result of both legislative efforts to overturn the rules as well as potential appeals of the passage of the rules, it is unclear whether (and when) the rules will become effective. While we are not aware of any provider of broadband Internet access attempting to interfere with our Internet access, the lack of enforceable rules could potentially negatively impact our service offerings and impede our ability to offer new services that require significant Internet bandwidth. State and Local Regulation Some state and local regulatory authorities believe they retain jurisdiction to regulate the provision of, and impose taxes, fees and surcharges on, intrastate Internet and VoIP telephony services, and have attempted to impose such taxes, fees and surcharges, such as a fee for providing E-911 service. Rulings by the state commissions on the regulatory considerations affecting Internet and IP telephony services could affect our operations and revenues, and we cannot predict whether state commissions will be permitted to regulate the services we offer in the future. We paid approximately $316,000 of state and local taxes and other fees during 2012. To the extent we increase the cost of services to our customers to recoup some of the costs of compliance this will have the effect of decreasing any price advantage we may have over traditional telecommunications companies. In addition, it is possible that we will be required to collect and remit taxes, fees and surcharges in other states and local jurisdictions and which such authorities may take the position that we should have collected. If so, they may seek to collect those past taxes, fees and surcharges from us and impose fines, penalties or interest charges on us. Our payment of these past taxes, fees and surcharges, as well as penalties and interest charges, could have a material adverse effect on us. International Regulation The regulatory treatment of Internet and Internet-based voice services, including IP telephony or VoIP, outside of the United States varies widely from country to country. A number of countries may prohibit Internet and IP telephony, while other countries expressly permit but regulate Internet and IP telephony. Some countries evaluate proposed Internet and IP telephony service on a case-by-case basis to determine whether any regulation is necessary or whether it should be regulated as a voice service or as another telecommunications or data service. Finally, in many countries neither Internet nor IP telephony have been addressed by legislation or regulatory action as of the date of this filing. Although we strive to comply with applicable international IP telephony regulations, we cannot be certain that we are in compliance with all of the relevant regulations at any given point in time. 13 In 2002, the European Commission adopted a set of directives for a new framework (Regulatory Framework) for electronic communications regulation that, in part, attempts to harmonize the regulations that apply to services regardless of the technology used by the provider. The Regulatory Framework was further amended in November 2009. Under the Regulatory Framework, there is no distinction in regulation made based upon technology between switched or packet-based networks. As a result, some types of IP telephony and VoIP services may be regulated like traditional telephony services while others may be subject to less stringent regulation. The European Commission has published a staff working paper aimed at clarifying the conditions applicable to providers of IP-based services. The working paper identifies various issues that may arise in relation to IP-based services including the regulatory classification of Internet telephony and VoIP under the Regulatory Framework. The European Regulators Group (consisting of regulators from European Union Member States and the European Commission) has adopted a Common Statement for VoIP regulation. The European Commission currently is reviewing how IP telephony services fit into the Regulatory Framework and analyzing other issues associated with IP telephony, such as access to numbering resources and provision of emergency services. Although the European Commission has recommended that a “light touch” to regulation be taken, we cannot predict what future actions the European Commission, Member States, and courts reviewing the Regulatory Framework may take regarding IP telephony and related matters, or what impact, if any, such actions may have on our business. Based on the European Commission's current position, we believe that most providers of IP telephony would be subjected to no more than minimal regulation such as a general authorizations or declaration requirements that may be imposed by the European Union Member States. Several Member States have issued statements or regulations concerning IP telephony and VoIP while others have issued consultations requesting industry comments on the applicability of the Regulatory Framework to various IP telephony and VoIP services in their respective countries. However, since the Commission's findings on IP telephony are not binding on the Member States, we cannot assure you that the services provided over our network will not be deemed “voice telephony” subject to heightened regulation by one or more EU Member States. Although Member States are required to adhere to the Regulatory Framework, Member States may not take a uniform approach in regulating a particular Internet-enabled service including IP telephony. We cannot predict the manner in which Member States will regulate our particular services. As we make our services available in foreign countries, and as we facilitate sales by our network partners to end-users located in foreign countries, such countries may claim that we are required to qualify to do business in the particular foreign country. Such countries may also claim that we are subject to regulation, including requirements to obtain authorization for the provision of voice telephony or other telecommunications services, or for the operation of telecommunications networks. It is also possible that such countries may claim that we are prohibited in all cases from providing our services or conducting our business in those countries. Failure to qualify as a foreign corporation in certain jurisdictions, or to comply with foreign laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business. In addition, we cannot predict how a regulatory or policy change of a particular country might affect the provision of our services. Our network partners may also currently be, or in the future may become, subject to requirements to qualify to do business in a particular foreign country, comply with regulations (including requirements to obtain authorizations for the provision of voice telephony or other telecommunications services or for the operation of telecommunications networks) or cease providing services or conducting their business as conducted in that country. We cannot be certain that our network partners either are currently in compliance with any such requirements, will be able to comply with any such requirements, and/or will continue in compliance with any such requirements. Other Regulation Affecting the Internet The European Union has also enacted several directives relating to the Internet, including regulations that address online commerce and data protection. International governments are adopting and implementing privacy and data protection regulations that establish certain requirements with respect to, among other things, the confidentiality, processing and retention of personal subscriber information. The potential effect, if any, of these data protection rules on the development of our business remains uncertain. Competition We compete primarily in the market for enhanced video and VoIP telephony services, products, hosted solutions and infrastructure, and specifically in the VoIP service provider and reseller markets. This VoIP market is highly competitive and there are numerous competing providers. We believe that the primary competitive factors determining our success in the VoIP telephony market are: quality of service and network capacity; the ability to meet and anticipate customer needs through multiple service offerings and feature sets; customer services; and price. Future competition could come from a variety of companies in the video and voice-over-IP industry. This industry includes major companies who have greater resources and larger subscriber bases than we have, and have been in operation for many years. In addition, many companies provide, or are planning to provide, some of the services we offer. Revenues and Assets by Geographic Area For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately $10.5 million, or 77%, of our revenue was derived from international customers, and $3.1 million, or 23%, was derived from customers in the United States. Most of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. For more detailed information concerning our geographic segments, see Note [14] to our financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 14 Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 30 employees, of which 29 were located in Israel (7 of whom were part-time employees) and one was located in the United States. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Customers In 2012, two customers accounted for approximately 48.8% of our gross revenues. Any significant decline in our sales to any of our material customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. At the end of February 2011 our largest customer temporarily suspended its operations and conducting business with our company due to the recent unrest in the Middle East and ongoing instability and operating difficulties caused by such unrest. In September 2011, this reseller resumed operations and conducting business with our company, and became a material customer of our company again beginning the fourth quarter of 2011. Available Information Our Internet address is www.deltathree.com. Through a link at the Investor Relations section of our website we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Company We have a history of losses and we are uncertain as to our future profitability. Except for the year ended December 31, 2006, in which we reported net income of approximately $500,000 but a net loss from operations of $52,000, we have a history of significant, recurring losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We reported net losses of approximately $2.5 million in 2010, $3.1 million in 2011, and $1.6 million in 2012 (although we reported net income from operation of approximately $88,000 in 2012). As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was approximately $183 million. Our revenues may not grow or even continue at their current level. Going forward, we will need to increase our revenues and/or lower our current cost structure to reach profitability. If our revenues do not increase and/or if we are unable to reduce our expenses, we may not be able to reach profitability again. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to expand our revenue. Our business strategy is to expand our revenue sources and our distribution channels in order to include the provision of video and VoIP telephony services to different customer groups. We can neither assure you that we will be able to accomplish this nor that this strategy will be profitable. Currently, our revenues are primarily generated by sales of our video and VoIP telephony products and services through our service provider and reseller sales channel and our direct-to-consumer channel. VoIP telephony from these channels generated 98.5%, 98.7%and 96.9% of our total revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We expect that our revenues for the foreseeable future will be dependent on, among other factors: • sales of our video and voice-over-IP products and services; • the public’s acceptance and use of video and voice-over-IP services; • expansion of our service offerings; • the effect of competition, regulatory environment, international long distance rates and access and transmission costs on our prices; and • continued improvement of our global network quality. Our business strategy assumes, among other things, that the voice-over-IP market generally and such market as it applies to mobile devices specifically will expand significantly. If this market does not expand significantly we may not be able to expand our revenues and successfully carry out our business strategy. 15 The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued financial crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, as well as increase the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable from our customers. For example, our ability to obtain additional financing may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We are substantially dependent upon a few material customers, and any significant decline in our sales to those customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2012, two customers accounted for approximately 48.8% of our annual gross revenues. Any significant decline in our sales to any of our material customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A continuing decline in telecommunications prices may cause us to lower our prices to remain competitive, which could prevent our future profitability. International and domestic telecommunications prices have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we operate, and as a result our margins have decreased materially. We anticipate that prices will continue to be reduced in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services (or our resellers’ or service provider customers’ services) to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications prices and our (or our customers’) prices may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers as such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Such competition or continued price decreases may require us to lower our prices to remain competitive, may result in reduced revenue, a loss or decrease of customers and may prevent our future profitability. We believe it is probable that we will need additional capital to continue our operations. We sustained significant operating losses in years prior to 2012, which led to a significant reduction in our cash reserves. As of December 31, 2012, we had negative working capital of approximately $2.3 million and negative stockholders’ equity of approximately $5.6 million. We believe it is probable that we will continue to experience losses and increased negative working capital and negative stockholders’ equity in the near future, and that we will not be able to return to positive cash flow before we require additional capital (in addition to any further amounts we may borrow from D4 Holdings under the Fourth Loan Agreement) in the near term. Each loan advance under the Fourth Loan Agreement requires the satisfaction of certain conditions, including a condition that there shall not have occurred, in D4 Holdings’ sole discretion, any material adverse change in our business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise) or a material impairment in the prospect of repayment of any portion of our obligations under the loan agreements. In the event that any such events occur, we may be unable to access credit under the Fourth Loan Agreement. We believe that, unless we are able to increase our revenues, we will not have sufficient funds to continue our current operations over the foreseeable future if we do not receive additional financing. We may experience difficulties accessing the equity and debt markets and raising such capital, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such additional capital on favorable terms or at all. In addition, as a result of D4 Holdings’ controlling interest in our company, D4 Holdings will be able to exercise a controlling influence over future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us and a third party may be deterred from investing in us. Intense competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The market for video and voice-over-IP services is extremely competitive. Our competitors include companies in the video and voice-over-IP industry. Many of our existing competitors and potential competitors have broader portfolios of services, greater financial, management and operational resources, greater brand-name recognition, larger subscriber bases and more experience than we have. In addition, our Internet competitors use the Internet instead of a private network to transmit traffic, and the operating and capital costs of these providers may be less than ours. If we are unable to provide competitive service offerings, we may lose existing customers and be unable to attract additional customers. In addition, many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in a lower cost structure for transmission and related costs, which cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or to make the technical advances necessary to be competitive, which, in turn, will cause our business to suffer. 16 Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may make it difficult for investors to predict our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. The factors generally within our control include: • the rate at which we are able to attract users to purchase our video and voice-over-IP products and services; • the amount and timing of expenses to enhance marketing and promotion efforts and to expand our infrastructure; and • the timing of announcements or introductions of new or enhanced services by us. The factors outside our control include: • the timing of announcements or introductions of new or enhanced services by our competitors; • regulations in various countries that prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all; • technical difficulties or network interruptions in the Internet or our privately-managed network; and • general economic and competitive conditions specific to our industry. We face a risk of failure of computer and communications systems used in our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems as well as those that connect to our network. We maintain communications systems in facilities in New Jersey, Atlanta, London and Sydney. Although we have designed our network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our systems and those that connect to our network are subject to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, communications failure, hardware or software malfunction, network failures, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of terrorism or vandalism and other events that may be or may not be beyond our control. Any system interruptions that cause our services to be unavailable, including significant or lengthy telephone network failures or difficulties for users in communicating through our network or portal, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of users. Our computer systems and operations may be vulnerable to security breaches. We believe that the safety of our network and the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet are essential to our operations and maintaining user confidence in our services. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our network, the consumer information stored on our network, unauthorized use of our network and other security breaches, our computer infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic computer viruses, abuse of use, break-ins and similar disruptive problems and security breaches that could cause loss (both economic and otherwise), interruptions, delays or loss of services to our users. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities or new technologies could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect user transaction data. A party that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or utilize our network without authorization. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. While we have experienced isolated instances of unauthorized use of our network, and have responded to such events by taking steps to increase our network security, we cannot guarantee you that our security measures will prevent security breaches. Operating internationally exposes us to additional and unpredictable risks. We operate in many international markets, including the Middle East. There are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including: • political and economic instability, including the risk of social unrest, war, civil war and armed conflict in the countries in which we operate; • uncertainty regarding the ability of our resellers to resell our service in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations in such markets and actions by foreign governments or foreign telecommunications companies to limit access to our services; • fluctuations in exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potentially weaker protection of intellectual property rights; and • uncertain market acceptance and difficulties in marketing efforts due to language and cultural differences. We need to retain key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations. The marketing and operations of our products and services will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources; this is particularly true following the significant decline in the number of our employees that occurred as a result of the reduction in force we effected during 2011. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees whom we rely upon to run our operations. Except for Mr. Effi Baruch, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Senior Vice President of Technology and Operations, none of our officers or key employees is subject to an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of these officers or key employees could impact our ability to run our operations and delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. 17 Our ability to provide our service and to comply with certain regulatory obligations is dependent in part upon third-party providers, facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, expose us to legal liability, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer's broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We also outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. We also outsource the development of several of our applications and features, and in some cases enter into license and support agreements with the applicable providers. If those providers seek to terminate our license and support agreements, we would need to find replacement providers, and our customers may experience service interruptions. In addition, our E-911 service is currently dependent upon a third-party provider. Interruptions in service from this vendor could cause failures in our customers' access to E-911 services. Finally, our service offerings that integrate with the public switched telephone network are wholly reliant on third party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our calls to users of traditional telephone services. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities or service providers have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers, or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability. Our emergency calling service and E-911 calling service are different from the corresponding services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These differences may lead to failures that would not occur for users of traditional telephony services. For example, providers of interconnected VoIP services, like us, must use components of both the wireline and wireless infrastructure in unique ways that can result in failure. Also, emergency services provided over the Internet can be adversely impacted by power outages and network congestion that do not necessarily have the same adverse impact on users of traditional telephone services. Emergency call centers may not be equipped with appropriate hardware or software to accurately process and respond to emergency calls received by consumers of interconnected VoIP services. Finally, users of nomadic interconnected VoIP services must manually update their location information, and failure to do so can result in dispatching of assistance to the wrong location. For these reasons, some of our customers do not receive emergency services in full compliance with the FCC rules. Any of these failures could result in enforcement action by the FCC, significant monetary penalties and restrictions on our ability to offer non-compliant services. Third parties might infringe upon our proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technology. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademarks and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, strategic partners and others. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Effective trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our services. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could materially harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in significant financial expenses and managerial resources. Third parties may claim that our services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted and may assert claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them and subject us to expensive and disruptive litigation. In addition, we incorporate licensed third-party technology in some of our products and services. In these license agreements, the licensors have agreed to indemnify us with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed software infringes any patent or other proprietary right so long as we have not made changes to the licensed software. We cannot assure you that these provisions will be adequate to protect us from infringement claims. Any infringement claims and lawsuits, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; divert management’s attention and resources; require us to redesign our products, if feasible; require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and/or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. 18 Risks Related to our Industry Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to IP telephony could harm our business. Historically, voice communications services have been provided by regulated telecommunications common carriers. We offer voice communications to the public for international and domestic calls using IP telephony, and we do not operate as a licensed telecommunications common carrier in many jurisdictions based on specific regulatory classifications and recent regulatory decisions. However, the growth of IP telephony has led to close examination of its regulatory treatment in many jurisdictions, making the legal status of our services uncertain and subject to change as a result of future regulatory action, judicial decisions or legislation in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Established regulated telecommunications carriers have sought and may continue to seek regulatory actions to restrict the ability of companies such as ours to provide services or to increase the cost of providing such services. Application of new regulatory restrictions or requirements to us could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from delivering our services through our current arrangements. In such event, we would consider a variety of alternative arrangements for providing our services, including obtaining appropriate regulatory authorizations for our local network partners or ourselves, changing our service arrangements for a particular country or limiting our service offerings. Such regulations could limit our service offerings, raise our costs and restrict our pricing flexibility, and potentially limit our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, regulations and laws that affect the growth of the Internet could hinder our ability to provide our services over the Internet. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services (or our resellers from reselling our services) cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. Currently, there are several countries where regulations prohibit us and our resellers from offering service. We cannot assure you that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in the future. In addition, because customers can use our services almost anywhere that a broadband Internet connection is available, including countries where providing VoIP services is illegal, the governments of those countries may attempt to assert jurisdiction over us, which could expose us to significant liability and regulation. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications industry. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the market in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use and/or may render our services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving and expanding the scope of services we offer and by developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. We will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand our services to keep pace with changing technologies. The success of our business is affected by customers' unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. A portion of our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Some providers of broadband access have taken measures that affect their customers' ability to use our service, such as downgrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband access services have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers' access to VoIP or otherwise discriminating against VoIP providers. Interference with our service or higher charges for using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. The FCC’s “open Internet” rules, which would partially address issues relating to blocking, impairing or downgrading our service by either fixed or wireless providers of broadband Internet access services, are not yet effective and, as a result of both legislative efforts to overturn the rules as well as potential appeals of the passage of the rules, it is unclear whether (and when) the rules will become effective. While we are not aware of any provider of broadband Internet access attempting to interfere with our Internet access, the lack of enforceable rules could potentially negatively impact our service offerings and impede our ability to offer new services that require significant Internet bandwidth. We are not currently accepting customers in areas where we cannot provide E-911 service in conformity with the FCC’s rules. This has adversely impacted the ability of iConnectHere to accept new customers and may also have an adverse effect on our sales to customers who resell our service. 19 Various U.S. state and local fees, taxes and surcharges, as well as those for the European Union, may increase our costs and our customers' cost of using our services. Some state and local regulatory authorities claim that they retain jurisdiction to regulate the provision of, and impose taxes, fees and surcharges on, intrastate Internet and VoIP telephony services, and have attempted to impose such taxes, fees and surcharges, such as a fee for providing E-911 service. A recent FCC ruling allows states to require providers of interconnected VoIP services, like us, to contribute to state USF programs. While the decision did not address retroactive liability, there is a possibility that certain states will seek to impose retroactive application of any state USF obligations. We would likely pass through to our customers in those states any such state USF fees, potentially making our services less competitive with offerings available from traditional providers of telecommunications services, which may cause us to lose customers in those states. In addition, it is possible that we will be required to collect and remit taxes, fees and surcharges in other states and local jurisdictions, and which such authorities may take the position that we should have collected. If so, they may seek to collect those past taxes, fees and surcharges from us and impose fines, penalties or interest charges on us. Our payment of these past taxes, fees and surcharges, as well as penalties and interest charges, could have a material adverse effect on us. We paid approximately $316,000 of U.S. state and local taxes and other fees during 2012. To the extent we increase the cost of services to our customers to recoup some of the costs of compliance this will have the effect of decreasing any price advantage we may have over traditional telecommunications companies. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with funding requirements of the USF and similar state or federal funds as well as other FCC-mandated funding requirements or that our customers will cancel service due to the impact of these or other price increases to their service. We began contributing to the USF during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 and began charging our customers a USF surcharge fee. In addition, we are required to collect and remit other FCC-related fees, such as the TRS fund and contributions towards local number portability, and the FCC and state public utilities commissions are considering subjecting interconnected VoIP providers like us to additional fees and surcharges. The impact of this price increase on our customers or our inability to recoup the costs or liabilities in remitting such fees as well as any future fees could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, or could cause some customers to cancel our service due to the loss of any price advantage we may have over traditional telecommunications companies. Future legislation or regulation of our service offerings may increase our costs, which may result in either our increasing the retail price of our service offerings or reducing our profitability. The FCC has several ongoing proceedings that could negatively impact us. Specifically, the FCC may reform the system of payments between companies that connect telephone companies and the methodology for contributing to the federal USF program. Such reforms may increase the charges we pay to other companies for handling our calls. The FCC may adopt more stringent E-911 obligations. This could result in us having to deploy new technologies or engage a third party to provide services in compliance with the new regulations, increasing our costs. The FCC may determine that some or all of our offerings are properly classified as “telecommunications” services subjecting our offerings to state and federal regulations, thereby increasing our compliance costs. The U.S. Congress, state legislatures, state regulatory commissions and foreign regulatory commissions could attempt to impose additional obligations on us at any time or reform existing law concerning the contribution methodology for regulatory fees and surcharges in a manner that negatively impacts us. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC proceedings or what actions such other governmental and regulatory bodies may take that may affect us. Risks Related to our Relationship with D4 Holdings D4 Holdings controls a majority of our common stock and has the ability to exercise control over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote. D4 Holdings currently owns approximately 54.0% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, holds warrants to purchase an aggregate of 45,000,000 shares of our common stock and can convert the principal outstanding under the Convertible Note into 22,746,325 shares of our common stock. Assuming the exercise of all warrants held by D4 Holdings and the conversion of outstanding principal under the Convertible Note, D4 Holdings beneficially owns 76.2% of our common stock. As long as D4 Holdings continues to beneficially own more than 50% of the voting power of our company, D4 Holdings will be able to exercise a controlling influence over decisions affecting us, including: • composition of our board of directors and, through it, our direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; • potential mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets and other significant corporate transactions; • future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us; • incurrence of debt by us; • amendments, waivers and modifications to any agreements between us and D4 Holdings; • payment of dividends on our capital stock; and • approval of our business plans and general business development. 20 In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. D4 Holdings also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and D4 Holdings concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. D4 Holdings is not restricted from competitive activities or investments. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of D4 Holdings will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Also, four of our seven directors are affiliated with D4 Holdings. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence the management of our company is limited, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. The ownership of D4 Holdings includes owners of ACN, and we may engage in commercial transactions with ACN and its affiliated entities in the future. D4 Holdings is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN. Four of the members of our board of directors currently serve as officers and/or directors of ACN. Because ACN is a direct seller of telecommunications services, we may seek to engage in commercial transactions to provide services to ACN in the future. During the third quarter of 2009 we entered into an agreement with ACN Pacific Pty Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP telecommunications services in Australia and New Zealand to ACN Pacific. In October 2010 we entered into a sales agency agreement with ACN pursuant to which ACN sells a private label version of joip Mobile under the ACN Mobile World brand. In December 2010 we entered into an agreement with ACN Korea, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP services in Korea. In April 2011 we entered into an introducer agreement with ACN Europe B.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which ACN Europe refers potential customers in different countries in Europe to a private label version of joip Mobile sold under the ACN Mobile World brand. Although we expect that the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of ACN and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us as might otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. As a result of D4 Holding’s controlling interest in deltathree a third party may be deterred from attempting to acquire our company. D4 Holding’s controlling interest in deltathree could delay, deter or prevent a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. This may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, even though such a change in ownership would be economically beneficial to us and our stockholders. Our stockholders may suffer dilution in the future in the event that D4 Holdings exercises any of the warrants or its right to convert outstanding principal amounts under the Convertible Note into shares of our common stock. D4 Holdings currently holds warrants to purchase an aggregate of 45,000,000 shares of our common stock at exercise prices of $0.02 per share and can convert the principal outstanding under the Convertible Note into 22,746,325 shares of our common stock. In the event that D4 Holdings exercises any or all of the warrants or converts principal amounts outstanding under the Convertible Note into shares of our common stock, in full or in part, our existing stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. Risks Related to our Common Stock Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. From the time that trading commenced in our common stock in November 1999, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • the market price for the stock of our major competitors; • variations in our actual or anticipated quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; • our entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures; and • purchases and sales of our common stock by D4 Holdings. All of these factors are, in whole or part, beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. 21 Investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to such volatility. In addition, the market price for shares of telecommunications, Internet-related and technology companies has dramatically decreased. We cannot assure you that our common stock will trade at the same levels of other telecommunications or Internet stocks. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, which may increase the volatility of our stock and make it harder to sell shares of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, which tends to be a highly illiquid market. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTCQB (as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system), as a result of which stockholders may experience wide fluctuations and a depressed price in the market price of our securities. Thus, stockholders may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than their purchase price or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than they planned. Because our common stock falls under the definition of “penny stock,” trading in our common stock may be limited because broker-dealers are required to provide their customers with disclosure documents prior to allowing them to participate in transactions involving our common stock. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors; and require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. As a result, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock might decline, and stockholders could find it more difficult to sell their stock. Risks Related to our Israel Operations We may be negatively impacted by changes in political, military and/or economic conditions. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. A peace agreement between Israel and Egypt was signed in 1979 and a peace agreement between Israel and Jordan was signed in 1994. However, as of the date hereof Israel has not entered into any peace agreement with Syria or Lebanon. Negotiations between Israel and representatives of the Palestinian Authority in an effort to resolve the state of conflict have been sporadic and have failed to result in peace. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Gaza territory by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region, and in each of December 2008 and November 2012 Hamas engaged in an armed conflict with Israel. The recent political instability and civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa (including the ongoing civil war in Syria) as well as the ongoing conflict between Iran and Israel have raised new concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict or other hostilities involving Israel. We could be adversely affected by any such hostilities, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, certain countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms. We do not believe that the boycott has had a material adverse effect on us, but there can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli-based businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition in the future. Our costs of operations have at times been affected by changes in the cost of our operations in Israel resulting from changes in the value of the Israeli shekel relative to the U.S. dollar. Recently, the weakening of the dollar relative to the shekel has significantly increased the costs of our Israeli operations, stated in U.S. dollars. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early- to mid-l980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices and military conflicts. The Israeli Government has, for these and other reasons, intervened in the economy by utilizing, among other means, fiscal and monetary policies, import duties, foreign currency restrictions and control of wages, prices and exchange rates. The Israeli Government has periodically changed its policies in all these areas. Although we derive most of our revenues outside of Israel, a substantial portion of our expenses are incurred in Israel and are affected by economic conditions in the country. All of these factors are, in whole or part, beyond our control and may materially adversely affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, or market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. 22 We may be negatively impacted by employees being called for army service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all such residents are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Furthermore, some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. In addition, in the event of a military conflict or other attack on Israel, including the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time and on very short notice. The absence of a number of our officers and employees for significant periods could disrupt our operations and harm our business. ITEM 