Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors should be considered in evaluating our Company and our business. These factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Proposed Merger If the Merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement with Surgery Partners and Merger Sub does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. On January 20, 2011, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Surgery Partners and Merger Sub providing for the Merger of Merger Sub with and into us, with our company surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Surgery Partners. Upon completion of the Merger, each share outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (excluding those shares that are held by Surgery Partners, Merger Sub or us or any of our subsidiaries and stockholders who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights under Delaware law) will be automatically canceled and converted into the right to receive $13.25 in cash (without interest and subject to applicable withholding taxes). The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2011, subject to customary closing conditions, including customary antitrust and regulatory approvals. Further, the transaction is subject to the approval of the Merger Agreement by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. We cannot predict whether the closing conditions for the Merger set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied, and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur. The Merger Agreement may be terminated by us, on the one hand, or Surgery Partners, on the other hand, under certain circumstances, and termination of the Merger Agreement may require us to pay a termination fee of approximately $4.368 million to Surgery Partners. If the conditions to the transactions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the Merger Agreement, or if the transactions are not completed for any other reason, (i) the market price of our common stock could significantly decline; (ii) we will remain liable for the significant expenses that we have incurred related to t he transaction, including legal and financial advisor fees, and may be required to pay the approximately $4.368 million termination fee; (iii) we may experience substantial disruption in our sales and operating activities, and the loss of key personnel, customers, suppliers, and other third-party relationships, any of which could materially and adversely affect us and our business, operating results, and financial condition; and (iv) we may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel. Until the closing of the transactions, it is possible that the focus of our management team and employees may be diverted, and that there may be a negative reaction to the Merger on the part of our customers, employees, suppliers, or other third-party relationships. The Merger Agreement also contains certain limitations regarding our business operations prior to completion of the Merger. Risks Relating to Our Business Current economic conditions may adversely affect our business The current economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition and our ability to pursue our growth strategy. The current economic conditions and continuing levels of high unemployment could result in fewer procedures being performed at our ASCs because patients may delay or cancel treatments. Further increases in unemployment could also result in fewer individuals being covered by employer-sponsored health plans and more individuals being covered by lower paying government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Adverse economic conditions may also increase pressure on federal and state governments to contain or reduce reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. To the extent that commercial payors are adversely affected by the economy, we may experience declines in commercial rates, a slo w 14 down in collections and a reduction in the amounts we expect to collect. In addition, our credit facility expires on December 15, 2011 unless we repay or refinance our convertible notes prior to this date in which case the expiration date will be extended to August 31, 2012. If the merger does not close, our plan is to negotiate an amendment to our credit facility to extend the term and provide for the ability to pay off our convertible debt in 2012 with borrowings from our amended credit facility. There is no assurance we will be successful. The level of our current and future debt could adversely impact our business, financial condition and growth strategy, and could also dilute our current equity holders and limit our flexibility Our acquisition and development program requires substantial capital resources and the operations of our existing ASCs also require ongoing capital expenditures. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including the timing and size of our acquisitions, development and expansion activities, the capital requirements associated with our ASCs, the future cost of medical equipment and our ability to generate cash flow. If we identify favorable acquisition and development opportunities that require additional resources, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities in order to pursue these opportunities. Our current debt levels may limit our ability to use indebtedness to fund our growth. As of December 31, 2010, we had $21.5 million outstanding under our credit facility which expires on December 15, 2011 unless we repay or refinance our convertible notes prior to this date in which case the expiration date will be extended to August 31, 2012. Our $80 million facility consists of a $50 million revolving credit facility and a $30 million term loan facility. We also have $75 million outstanding in 1.0% convertible senior subordinated notes due June 15, 2012, which we will need to repay or refinance prior to maturity. This high level of indebtedness, among other things, could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance our existing credit facility on favorable terms, if at all. Our indebtedness could also cause us to ded icate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations and development activities. As our indebtedness has increased, the portion of our borrowings at variable interest rates has also increased, which leaves us vulnerable to interest rate increases. Our degree of leverage also places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We could also fund our growth, or reduce our outstanding indebtedness, through the issuance of equity securities. To the extent any such equity financing is available to us, it may be dilutive to our current equity holders. Under the current terms of our credit facility, as of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $49 million of potential availability under the $50 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2010, the $30 million term loan facility requires quarterly payments of $1.25 million, which increase to $1.5 million commencing December 31, 2011. We are unable to borrow additional funds under the $30 million term loan facility; consequently, our borrowing availability under our existing credit facility is limited to the availability under the $50 million revolving credit facility. In addition, we are not able to use the final $10 million of availability for the purpose of acquisitions. Reduced prices and reimbursement rates for surgical procedures as a result of competition or Medicare and other governmental and private third party payor cost containment efforts could reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flow Government sponsored health care programs accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. The health care industry is continuing to experience a trend toward cost containment as government and private third-party payors seek to contain reimbursement and utilization rates and to negotiate reduced payment schedules with health care service providers. These trends may result in a reduction from historical levels in per patient revenue received by our ASCs. Changes in Medicare payment rates have, in the past, resulted in reduced payments to ASCs. Medicaid and other governmental and private insurance payments also could be affected to the extent that these insurance programs use payment methodologies based on Medicare rates, or take actions independent of Medicare to revise payment methodologies. On January 1, 2008, pursuant to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (referred to as the “Medicare Modernization Act”), the CMS began implementing a new methodology for determining Medicare payment rates for ASCs. When CMS implemented these revised rates, payment amounts for most procedures furnished by our ASCs changed, in some cases significantly. Payment for some high-volume procedures, such as cataract extraction, increased, while payment for others, such as YAG laser capsulotomy and gastroenterology procedures, decreased. CMS is implementing the new methodology over four years. During 2010, subject to transition year rules and other adjustments, ASCs generally were paid approximately 59 percent of what comparably situated hospitals were paid for the same service. In 2011, subject to transition year rules and other adjustments, ASCs generally will be paid approximately 56 percent of what comparably situated hospitals will be paid for the same service. Procedures 15 that were approved for payment in the ASC setting prior to 2008 are subject to transition rules, and as such may be paid more or less than the approximately 56 percent of the hospital rate. The percentage relationship between ASC and hospital payment rates will continue to fluctuate from year-to-year as CMS annually recalculates the conversion factors and applies budget neutrality and inflation adjustments. Consequently, we expect Medicare payments for most procedures furnished by our ASCs to fluctuate annually, and in some cases significantly. However, we also expect the overall gap between hospital and ASC rates to continue to widen. To the extent the amount that Medicare pays ASCs for procedures fluctuates, potential revenues likewise could fluctuate and decline. Many private payors utilize Medicare payment schedules or shadow price Medicare payments. Consequently, changes to Me dicare payments also could negatively affect revenues available from non-Medicare patients. In addition, payments for certain services commonly furnished in a physician office, or “office-based” procedures are capped at the amount Medicare pays physicians as a technical component when the services are furnished in the office setting. As such, payments for many procedures commonly furnished in our ASCs are well below the payment a hospital would receive for the same procedure. Approximately 350 procedures (10 percent of covered procedures) are currently designated as “office-based.” To the extent that we furnish a substantial number of “office-based” procedures, revenues could be negatively impacted. The ACA now requires CMS to reduce the annual inflation update for ASC payments by making a productivity adjustment of 1.3 percentage points each year. As such, while the applicable inflation adjustment for 2011 for ASC payment rates is 1.5 percent, since the applicable productivity adjustment is 1.3 percent, the actual inflation adjustment for ASCs payments is a mere 0.2 percent for 2011. As a result of this productivity adjustment, we expect Medicare payments for ASC services to be increased only nominally from year to year. Under current law, only procedures specifically designated by CMS will be covered when furnished in the ASC setting. As such, our facilities can receive a facility payment from Medicare only for ASC covered procedures. CMS develops and maintains the listing of ASC Covered Procedures (defined by HCPCS Code). At present, approximately 3,500 procedures are approved for payment in the ASC setting. CMS is required by law to update the list of ASC Covered Procedures every two years. Although CMS recently has updated the list of ASC Covered Procedures annually, CMS has occasionally disregarded this requirement and failed to update the list. There is a risk that CMS will continue to occasionally disregard this statutory requirement, and not update the list of ASC Covered Procedures as required by law. There also is a substantial risk that CMS could eliminate Medicare coverage f or many surgical procedures. In November 2004, CMS proposed to delete 100 procedures from the list of ASC Covered Procedures, including many procedures that are commonly furnished in ASC settings. Although CMS ultimately decided in May 2005 to delete only five of the proposed 100 procedures, CMS could again propose and ultimately decide to substantially reduce the number of procedures for which Medicare will pay an ASC facility fee, a change that could affect the financial viability of our business. To the extent that any procedures performed at our ASCs are deleted from the list of ASC Covered Procedures, it could negatively and materially affect our revenue and business. Considerable uncertainty surrounds the future determination of Medicare reimbursement levels for ambulatory surgical services. Services reimbursable under the Medicare program are subject to legislative change, administrative rulings, interpretations, discretion, governmental funding restrictions and requirements for utilization review. Such matters, as well as more general governmental budgetary concerns, may significantly reduce payments made to ASCs under this program, and there can be no assurance that future Medicare payment rates will be sufficient to cover the costs of, or cost increases in, providing services to Medicare patients. These uncertainties are compounded as a result of the unknown future of the ACA, which faces continuing legal and political challenges. We cannot predict the outcomes of court decisions that will affect the ACA, nor how legislative eff orts to repeal, modify, dilute, or defund the ACA may impact our business. The outcome of court decisions and legislative battles and actions regarding the ACA could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Government Regulation—Federal Law—Affordable Care Act.” Changes to Medicare reimbursements may also impact our revenue from private third party payors because many private third party payors tie their reimbursement levels to Medicare rates. Revenue from laser vision correction procedures comprised approximately one percent of our surgical facilities net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. The market for providing laser vision correction and other refractive surgery procedures continues to be highly competitive. In response, many of our competitors are offering laser vision correction or other refractive surgery services at lower prices than the prices we charge. If price competition continues, however, we may choose or be forced to lower the facility fees we charge in our surgical facilities. If we lower our fees, we could experience reductions in our revenue, profitability and cash flow. 16 Our revenue and profitability could decrease if we are unable to maintain positive relationships with the physicians who perform surgical procedures at our ASCs The success of our business depends on our relationship with, and the success and efforts of, the physicians who perform surgical procedures at our ASCs. Our physician partners may perform surgical procedures at other facilities or hospitals, are not required to use our ASCs and may choose not to perform procedures at our ASCs. Our revenue and profitability would decline if our relationship with key physicians deteriorated or those physicians reduced or eliminated their use of our ASCs. In addition, our business and reputation could be damaged if the physicians who use our ASCs fail to provide quality medical care or follow required professional guidelines at our facilities. Some individual physicians are responsible for a significant share of the procedure volume and revenue at some of our ASCs. The loss of one or more of these physicians could negatively impact the financia l viability of an ASC. In addition, co-owning ASCs with physicians may create additional regulatory risk. See “Government Regulation—Federal Law—Anti-Kickback Statute.” Our failure to operate, acquire or develop a sufficient number of profitable surgical facilities could limit our profitability and revenue growth Our growth strategy is focused on growing our existing ASCs and acquiring or developing new ASCs in a cost-effective manner. We may not experience an increase in surgical procedures at our existing or future ASCs. We may not be able to achieve the economies of scale and patient base, or provide the business, administrative and financial services required to grow or sustain profitability in our existing and future ASCs. Newly acquired or developed facilities may generate losses or experience lower operating margins than our more established facilities, or they may not generate returns that justify our investment. The market for ASC acquisitions continues to be competitive, and most potential targets often have multiple bidders. This bidding process often results in increased purchase prices and less favorable transaction terms. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or development targets, successfully negotiate the acquisition or development of these facilities on satisfactory terms, or have the access to adequate capital to finance these endeavors. We anticipate that we will fund the acquisition and development of future ASCs from cash generated from our operations and amounts borrowed under our credit facility. The maximum commitment available under our revolving credit facility is currently $50 million (the remaining $30 million is a term loan that is being paid down but under which we cannot borrow additional funds). Our current credit facility expires on December 15, 2011 unless we repay or refinance our convertible notes prior to this date in which case the expiration date will be extended to August 31, 2012. As of March 2, 2011, we have approximately $49 million of potential availability under our $50 million revolving credit facility. Our ability to pursue acquisition and development activity will be limited to the availability under our $50 million revolving credit facilit y and cash generated from our operations. In addition, we are not able to use the final $10 million of availability for acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy or manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We will need cash to pay the principal portion of the conversion value of the Convertible Notes (as defined below), as required by the indenture governing the notes Under the net share settlement feature of the Convertible Notes, we are required to repay the $75 million principal portion of the Convertible Notes in cash. It is unlikely that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to make this payment so we will need other sources of debt or equity capital. Our business and growth strategy, including our ability to finance the acquisition and development of new ASCs, could be negatively impacted if we do not have sufficient financial resources, or are not able to arrange suitable financing, to pay the required amounts upon conversion or tender of the Convertible Notes. Our operating margins and profitability could suffer if we are unable to manage effectively, and grow the revenue of, our increasing number of ASCs Our growth strategy includes increasing our revenue and earnings by increasing the number of procedures performed at our ASCs. Because we do not anticipate price increases from third party payors and given that we may face further reimbursement pressures, our operating margins will be adversely affected if we do not increase the revenue and procedure volume of our existing 17 ASCs to offset increases in our operating costs. We seek to increase procedure volume and revenue at our ASCs by increasing the number of physicians performing procedures at our facilities, obtaining new or more favorable managed care contracts, improving patient flow at our centers and achieving operating efficiencies. We may not be successful in these endeavors. We acquired ten ASCs in 2006, two ASCs in 2007, three ASCs in 2008 and no ASCs in 2009 and one ASC in 2010 (which we absorbed into our Orlando, Florida ASC). Despite making just one acquisition in 2009 and 2010, our business strategy contemplates us continuing to acquire and develop more ASCs in the future. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our employees, business systems and other resources. Continued expansion of our operations will require substantial financial resources and management attention. To accommodate our past and anticipated future growth, we will need to continue to implement and improve the management and operation of our business systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our employees. Our operating results could suffer if we do not properly manage our growth. We may not compete effectively with other companies that have greater resources and experience than us or that may make it more difficult to maintain our licensure Competitors with substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and other resources and experience may compete more effectively than us. We compete with other businesses, including ASC companies, hospitals, individual physicians, other ASCs, laser vision correction centers, eye care clinics and providers of retail optical products. Competitors with substantially greater resources and less debt than us may be more successful in acquiring and developing surgical facilities. In recent years, we have seen hospitals becoming much more active in competing with us for the acquisition and development of ASCs. Hospitals and other ASCs may also be more successful in attracting physicians to utilize their facilities. Hospitals are also becoming much more active in employing physicians and/or purchasing medical practices. Our optical laboratories and optical products p urchasing organization also face competition on national, regional and local levels. Companies in other health care industry segments, including managers of hospital-based medical specialties or large group medical practices, may become competitors in providing ASCs and surgical equipment, as well as competitive eye care related services. Competition for retaining the services of highly qualified medical, technical and managerial personnel is significant. We also face competitive pressures from local hospitals. In addition to competing for patients, physician relationships and ASC acquisition opportunities, ASCs are often required by Medicare and certain state laws to maintain a written transfer agreement with an area hospital. A transfer agreement provides that a hospital will accept an ASC’s patient in the event of an emergency. Generally, we have not encountered problems obtaining transfer agreements from area hospitals. In limited instances, however, we have observed hospitals resisting entering into transfer agreements for what we believe to be competitive reasons. While there often are alternatives for ASCs to comply with federal and state regulations without a transfer agreement, competitive pressures from hospitals may make it more difficult and/or expensive for our ASCs to maintain their licensure and/or Medicare certification. Changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, or adoption of new laws or regulations, governing our business operations, including physician use and/or ownership of ASCs, could result in penalties to us, require us to incur significant expenditures, or force us to make changes to our business operations We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations, and courts and regulatory authorities generally have provided limited clarification. Moreover, state and local laws and interpretations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, we may not always be able to accurately predict interpretations of applicable law, and federal and state authorities could challenge some of our activities, including our co-ownership of ASCs with physicians and other investors. If any of our activities are challenged, we may have to divert substantial time, attention and resources from running our business to defend our activities against these challenges, regardless of their merit. If we do not successfully defend these challenges, we may face a va riety of adverse consequences, including: · loss of use of our ASCs; · losing our eligibility to participate in Medicare or Medicaid or losing other contracting privileges; or · in some instances, civil or criminal fines or penalties. Any of these results could impair our sources of revenue and our profitability and limit our ability to grow our business. 18 For example, the federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the knowing and willful solicitation, receipt, offer or payment of any direct or indirect remuneration in return for the referral of patients or the ordering or purchasing of items or services payable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care programs. This statute is very broad and Congress directed the DHHS to develop regulatory exceptions, known as safe harbors, to the statute’s referral prohibitions. While we have attempted to structure the ownership and operation of our ASCs within a safe harbor, we do not satisfy all of the requirements. Because there is no legal requirement that relationships fit within a safe harbor, a business arrangement that does not comply with the safe harbor, or for which a safe harbor does not exist, does not necessarily violate the anti-kickback statute. Presently, despite the fact that we do not fit within a safe harbor, we believe that our ownership and operation of ASCs complies with the anti-kickback statute. However, existing interpretations or enforcement of the federal anti-kickback statute or other applicable federal or state laws and regulations could change. If so, violations of the anti-kickback statute or other laws may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs. On June 19, 2007, the Inspector General for the DHHS posted Advisory Opinion No. 07-05. In this Advisory Opinion, the Inspector General declined to grant a favorable opinion to an arrangement in which a hospital proposed to purchase a subset of the units held in the ASC by two of the largest users of the ASC. The Inspector General stated that while none of the elements of the arrangement necessarily indicated fraud or abuse, it could not conclude that the difference in the cost of capital acquisition between the hospital and the physician owners was not related to the business generated by the owners for the ASC or the hospital. On July 25, 2008, the Inspector General posted Advisory Opinion No. 08-08. In this Advisory Opinion, the Inspector General granted a favorable opinion to a joint venture arrangement involving investment in an ASC by a group of surgeons and a hospital. The Inspector General stated that while this arrangement did not meet any specific safe harbor and could potentially generate prohibited remuneration under the anti-kickback statute, it would not impose sanctions under the federal anti-kickback statute. Finally, on July 22, 2009, the Inspector General posted Advisory Opinion No. 09-09. In this Advisory Opinion, the Inspector General also granted a favorable opinion to an arrangement involving an ASC developed and operated by a hospital and seven orthopedic surgeons. The Inspector General concluded that while this arrangement did not qualify for safe harbor protection, it would not impose sanctions under the federal anti-kickback statute. However, the Inspector General also stated in a footnote, that there might be cause for concern if the valuation of the investor contributions were based on a cash flow analysis of the ASC as a going concern. Although we cannot predict the ultimate application of these opinions and their impact on our business, based on the guidance that is available we believe that our joint ownership arrangements comply with the anti-kickback law. In addition, there also is a material risk that Congress, CMS or the states could revise physician ownership and referral laws in a manner that could prohibit or limit physician ownership of ASCs. Recent revisions to the Stark Law enacted as part of the Health Reform Law have the practical effect of generally prohibiting physician ownership in new hospitals and freezing physician ownership levels in existing hospitals. While this legislation applies only to hospitals, and not to ASCs, future actions by either Congress or CMS could ban or limit physician ownership of ASCs. Additionally, several states are considering limits on physician ownership in and referrals to specialty hospitals, and a few are considering similar limitations on physician ownership in and referrals to ASCs. In New Jersey, a state court in November 2007 ruled that physicians who refer their pat ients to an ASC in which they have an ownership interest, violate the New Jersey Codey Act’s ban against self-referrals. In response, the New Jersey legislature passed SB 787, which creates several exceptions for referrals made by physicians to ASCs in which they have a “significant beneficial interest” while at the same time creating more restrictions on ASC operations generally and establishing a moratorium on the establishment of future ASCs. To the extent that Congress, CMS or any of the states act to prohibit or limit physician ownership of ASCs, the investment structure of our ASCs could be significantly affected. If certain laws and regulations change, or the interpretation and/or enforcement of such laws and regulations change, we may elect to purchase some or all of the equity interests in our ASCs owned by physicians. The regulatory changes that could trigger this repurchase include it becoming: (i) illegal for a physician to own an equity interest in one of our ASCs; (ii) illegal for physician-owners in our ASCs to refer Medicare or other patients to the facility; or (iii) substantially likely that the receipt by physician-owners of cash distributions from the limited liability company or partnership will be illegal. The cost of repurchasing these equity interests would be substantial. We may not have sufficient capital resources to fund these obligations, and it may trigger the need to procure additional debt or equity financing. To the extent any such financing wa s available to us, it may be on terms that reduce our earnings or are 19 dilutive to our current equity holders. While we attempt to structure these purchase obligations as favorable as possible to us, the triggering of these obligations could have a significantly negative effect on our financial condition and business prospects. Furthermore, on October 30, 2008, CMS posted a final rule substantially revising the Medicare ASC Conditions for Coverage (“CfCs”). These changes took effect on May 18, 2009 and impose significant new regulatory burdens on ASCs which may constrain the range of services we offer and require us to incur additional cost and expense. Moreover, it is possible that changes to our facilities and operations may not be sufficient to be in compliance with new Medicare conditions, in which case some or all of our ASCs may be forced to disenroll from the Medicare program. Many governmental and private payors require Medicare certification as a condition to participate in their payment plans. Any ASC not enrolled in Medicare may likewise be precluded from enrolling in other governmental and private payor plans. Such exclusion would have a material negative effect on our business. Adoption of new laws or regulations governing our business could significantly add to our cost of doing business. Hospitals are currently obligated to periodically make mandatory quality reports to CMS. CMS has the authority to similarly require ASCs to file quality reports, and the agency has previously indicated its intent to use its rulemaking authority to establish a similar mandatory quality reporting obligation for ASCs at an unknown time in the future. Provisions in the ACA initiate the process of connecting Medicare payments for a variety of health care services to quality of care processes and outcomes. Under the ACA, CMS is to begin implementing a value-based purchasing program for hospital services in 2013. For ASCs, the ACA requires that by January 2011, CMS develop a plan for a value-based purchasing program. As of February 2011, CMS had not yet issued its plan. Once the ASC plan is developed, however, it would not automatically be imposed on ASCs, because the ACA does not give CMS authority to implement a value-based purchasing program for ASCs. Unlike the hospital value-based purchasing program, which is authorized by the ACA, congressional action would be required before ASCs are subject to any value-based purchasing program. Accordingly, the linking of Medi care payments to quality of performance and outcomes for ASCs is unlikely to occur as rapidly as will be the case for hospitals. It is likely that CMS will propose that ASCs be required to report quality data beginning as soon as 2012. Such a requirement could impose substantial new compliance burdens and costs on our facilities. ASCs may become subject to a payment penalty based on “acquired conditions” that patients get from the ASC. Currently, Medicare’s “acquired conditions” policy applies only to hospitals, which are subject to reduced Medicare reimbursements when hospital patients incur a secondary diagnosis, such as a surgical site infection, that was not present upon admission to the hospital. The ACA requires CMS to conduct a study by January 2012 on whether to expand Medicare’s acquired conditions policy to provider types other than hospitals, including ASCs. It is unclear whether such a policy will be applied to ASCs; an acquired conditions policy could substantially impact Medicare reimbursements to our facilities. According to its Work Plan for 2011, the Inspector General (“IG”) for the US Department of Health and Human Services has undertaken a review of the appropriateness of the current rate-setting methodology for ASCs, and the IG indicates it intends to provide the results of its review prior to October 2011. If the IG determines that the current ASC rate-setting methodology should be modified to incorporate value-based purchasing concepts, such an IG report could become a catalyst for legislators to require value-based purchasing for ASCs more quickly. Regulation of the construction, acquisition or expansion of ASCs could prevent us from developing, acquiring, expanding or relocating facilities Most states require licenses to own and operate ASCs, and some states require a CON to construct or modify an ASC. Several states recently have been revising licensure and CON laws in a manner that makes it more difficult to develop or relocate ASCs. If we are unable to procure the appropriate state licensure approvals, or if we are unable to obtain a CON in states with CON laws, then we may not be able to acquire or construct a sufficient number of ASCs, or to expand the scope of services offered in our existing ASCs, to achieve our growth strategy. Procuring these approvals could take considerable time, effort and expense, and may result in delays in opening new or modified facilities. Moreover, if we are unable to maintain good relations with the landlords of our ASCs, we may be forced to relocate a facility from time to time. If we are forced to relocate a facility, we ma y incur substantial costs in building out and furnishing our new location. In addition, depending on the state, we may also have difficulty obtaining the necessary state licensure and CON approvals to relocate the facility. See “Government Regulation—State Law.” 20 The nature of being actively involved in acquiring ASCs could subject us to potential claims and material liabilities relating to these businesses Although we conduct extensive due diligence prior to acquiring an ASC and are generally indemnified by the sellers, our acquisitions could subject us to claims, suits or liabilities relating to unknown or contingent liabilities or from incidents occurring prior to our acquisition of the facility. If we incur these liabilities and are not indemnified or insured for them, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Rapid technological advances may reduce our sources of revenue and our profitability Adoption of new technologies that may be comparable or superior to existing technologies for surgical equipment could reduce the amount of the facility fees we receive from physicians who use our surgical facilities, or the amount of revenue derived from our laser services agreements. Reduction of these sources of revenue could decrease our profitability. We also may have to expend significant capital resources to deploy new technology and related equipment to remain competitive. Our inability to provide access to new and improving technology could deter physicians from using our surgical facilities or equipment. Loss of the services of key management personnel could adversely affect our business Our success depends, in part, on the services of key management personnel, including Thomas S. Hall, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Scott T. Macomber, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Graham B. Cherrington, our Executive Vice President of Operations. We do not know of any reason why we might be likely to lose the services of any of these officers. However, in light of the role that each of these officers is expected to play in our future growth, if we lost the services of any of these officers, we believe that our business could be adversely affected. The nature of our business could subject us to potential malpractice, product liability and other claims The provision of surgical services entails the potentially significant risk of physical injury to patients and an inherent risk of potential malpractice, product liability and other similar claims. Our insurance may not be adequate to satisfy claims or protect us and this coverage may not continue to be available at acceptable costs. A partially or completely uninsured claim against us could reduce our earnings and working capital. Our insurance policies are generally renewed on an annual basis. Although we believe we will be able to renew our current policies or otherwise obtain comparable professional liability coverage, we have no control over the potential costs to renew. Increases in professional liability and other insurance premiums will negatively affect our profitability. If a change in events or circumstances causes us to write-off a portion of our intangible assets, our total assets could be reduced significantly and we could incur a substantial charge to earnings Intangible assets, primarily in the form of goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. At December 31, 2010, intangible assets represented approximately 81% of total assets and 199% of NovaMed, Inc. stockholders’ equity. The intangible asset value represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the separately identifiable net assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions and affiliations. The value of these assets may not be realized. We regularly, and at least annually, evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate all or a portion of the carrying amount of the asset may exceed its fair value, in which case an impairment charge to earnings may become necessary. If, in the future, we determine that our intangible assets have suffered an impairment that requires us to write off a portion of the asset due to a change in events or circumstances, this write-off could significantly reduce our total assets and we could incur a substantial charge to earnings, as well as be in default under one or more covenants in our credit facility. Becoming and remaining compliant with federal regulations enacted under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act could require us to expend significant resources and capital, and could impair our profitability and limit our ability to grow our business Numerous federal regulations have been adopted under HIPAA and the HITECH Act, which extends certain provisions of the security and privacy regulations to “business associates.” We have taken actions in an effort to establish our compliance with HIPAA’s and the HITECH Act’s privacy regulations, and we believe that we are in substantial compliance with HIPAA’s and the HITECH Act’s 21 privacy regulations. These actions include having our ASCs and affiliated providers implement new HIPAA-compliant policies and procedures, conducting employee HIPAA training, identifying business associates with whom we need to enter into new or amended HIPAA-compliant contractual arrangements and various other measures. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these measures involves significant time, effort and expense. Other federal regulations adopted under HIPAA require that our affiliated providers and us be capable of conducting certain standardized health care transactions, including billing and other claims transactions. We have undertaken significant efforts, involving substantial time and expense, to assure that our ASCs and affiliated providers can submit transactions in compliance with HIPAA. We anticipate that continuing time and expense will be required to maintain the ability to submit HIPAA-compliant transactions, and to make sure that newly-acquired ASCs can submit HIPAA-compliant transactions. In addition, compliance with the HIPAA security regulations require ASCs and other covered entities to implement reasonable technical, physical and administrative security measures to safeguard protected health information maintained, used and disclosed in electronic form. Moreover, the HITECH Act establishes a requirement for security breach notifications. We have taken actions in an effort to establish our compliance with HIPAA’s and the HITECH Act’s security regulations, and we believe that we are in substantial compliance with HIPAA’s security regulations. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these measures involves significant time, effort and expense. HIPAA and HITECH Act violations could expose us to civil penalties ranging between $100 and $50,000 per person per year for each violation with an annual cap of $1.5 million for identical violations within a calendar year. Additionally, criminal penalties include fines of up to $250,000 and/or up to 10 years in prison per violation. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock could depress our stock price After giving effect to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with our convertible note offering in June 2007, the conversion of some or all of our 1.0% convertible senior subordinated notes due June 15, 2012 may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. With the net share settlement feature of the Convertible Notes, upon conversion we will deliver cash instead of shares to repay the principal amount of the Convertible Notes. At the time of conversion we may elect to finance all or a portion of this $75 million through the issuance of equity securities which may be dilutive to our current equity holders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If at the time of conversion our share price exceeds the conversion price of $19.113 per share, we have the option of funding such excess residual value with shares of our common stock or cash. Pursuant to the note hedge transaction, Deutsche Bank AG London is required to deliver to us those shares of our common stock necessary to cover the residual value of any excess over $19.113 per share. To the extent our share price exceeds $24.93 per share, then pursuant to the warrant transaction, we will be required to deliver shares of our common stock representing the value of the warrants in excess of $24.93 per share. In addition, if a “qualifying fundamental change” occurs prior to maturity of the Convertible Notes, the conversion rate will be increased by an additional number of shares of common stock as provided for in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes. This additional issuance of common stock pursuant to these warrants may also be dilutive to our current equity holders and could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes and the related co nvertible note hedge and warrant transactions may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Notes could depress the price of our common stock. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the Convertible Notes may affect the trading price of our common stock In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into a privately negotiated convertible note hedge transaction with Deutsche Bank AG London, which is expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes. We also entered into a warrant transaction with Deutsche Bank AG London with respect to our common stock pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock. In connection with hedging these transactions, Deutsche Bank AG London or its affiliates were expected to enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock at, and possibly after, the pricing of the Convertible Notes and may have purchased or may purchase shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes. These activities could have had, or co uld have, the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. Deutsche Bank AG London or its affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments it may wish to use in connection with such hedging. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes will depend in part on market 22 conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock (including during any period used to determine the amount of consideration deliverable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes). Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may make it difficult to predict our future results of operations and may cause volatility in our stock price During 2010, the market price of our common stock was volatile, fluctuating from a high trading price of $16.41 to a low trading price of $7.71 per share. Our results of operations have varied and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We have a high level of fixed operating costs, including compensation costs and rent. As a result, our profitability depends to a large degree on the volume of surgical procedures performed in, and on our ability to utilize the capacity of, our surgical facilities. The timing and degree of fluctuations in our operating results will depend on several factors, including: · general economic conditions; · decreases in demand for non-emergency procedures due to severe weather; · availability or sudden loss of the services of physicians who utilize our surgical facilities; · availability or shortages of surgery-related products and equipment; · the timing and relative size of acquisitions; and · the recording of gains or losses on the sale of noncontrolling interests in our ASCs. These kinds of fluctuations in quarterly operating results may make it difficult for you to assess our future results of operations and may cause a decline or volatility in our stock price. Any return on your investment in our stock will depend on your ability to sell our stock at a profit We have never declared or paid any dividends and our credit agreement prohibits payment of dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will not declare dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. Instead we will retain earnings for use in our business. As a result, your return on an investment in our stock likely will depend on your ability to sell our stock at a profit. In addition, the stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 