ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks as well as the other risks highlighted elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly the discussions about regulation, competition and intellectual property. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Company We have a history of losses and we are uncertain as to our future profitability. Except for the year ended December 31, 2006, in which we reported net income of approximately $500,000 but a net loss from operations of $52,000, we have a history of significant, recurring losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We reported net losses of $9.3 million in 2007, $11.9 million in 2008 and $3.2 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $175.8 million. Our revenues may not grow or even continue at their current level. Going forward, we will need to increase our revenues and/or lower our current cost structure to reach profitability. If our revenues do not increase and/or if we are unable to reduce our expenses, we may not be able to reach profitability again. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to expand our revenue. Our business strategy is to expand our revenue sources and our distribution channels in order to include the provision of VoIP video and telephony to different customer groups. We can neither assure you that we will be able to accomplish this nor that this strategy will be profitable. Currently, our revenues are primarily generated by sales of our VoIP telephony products and services through our service provider and reseller sales channel and our direct-to-consumer channel. VoIP telephony from these channels generated 99.1%, 98.5% and 98.3% of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect that our revenues for the foreseeable future will be dependent on, among other factors: · sales of our video and voice-over-IP products and services; · the public’s acceptance and use of video and voice-over-IP services; · expansion of our service offerings; · the effect of competition, regulatory environment, international long distance rates and access and transmission costs on our prices; and · continued improvement of our global network quality. Our business strategy assumes, among other things, that the video and voice-over-IP market will expand significantly. If this market does not expand significantly we may not be able to expand our revenues and successfully carry out our business strategy. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued financial crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, as well as increase the risk of uncollectible accounts receivable from our customers. For example, our ability to obtain additional financing may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. 14 We are substantially dependent upon a few material customers, and any significant decline in our sales to those customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2009, one customer accounted for approximately 25.8% of our annual gross revenues; On November 3, 2009, we were informed that the operations of this largest customer had been suspended. The loss of sales to this customer has had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in 2009 a different customer accounted for approximately 22.5% of our annual gross revenues; in the fourth quarter of 2009 this customer accounted for approximately 35% of our gross revenues. Any significant decline in our sales to any of our material customers could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because we have recently begun focusing on servicing fewer, larger reseller customers rather than many, smaller reseller customers, it is probable that our dependence upon a few material customers will increase in the future. A continuing decline in telecommunications prices may cause us to lower our prices to remain competitive, which could prevent our future profitability. International and domestic telecommunications prices have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we operate, and as a result our margins have decreased materially. We anticipate that prices will continue to be reduced in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services (or our resellers’ or service provider customers’ services) to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications prices and our (or our customers’) prices may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers as such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Such competition or continued price decreases may require us to lower our prices to remain competitive, may result in reduced revenue, a loss or decrease of customers and may prevent our future profitability. We believe that we will need additional capital to continue our operations. We have sustained significant operating losses in recent periods, which have led to a significant reduction in our cash reserves. As of December 31, 2009, we had negative working capital of approximately $2.0 million as well as negative stockholders’ equity of approximately $1.4 million. We believe that we will continue to experience losses and increased negative working capital and negative stockholders’ equity in the near future, and that we will not be able to return to positive cash flow before we require additional capital (in addition to any further amounts we may borrow from D4 Holdings under the Loan Agreement) in the near term. Accordingly, we believe that, unless we are able to increase our revenues, we will not have sufficient funds to continue our current operations over the foreseeable future if we do not receive additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such additional capital on favorable terms or at all. In addition, as a result of D4 Holdings’ controlling interest in our company, D4 Holdings will be able to exercise a controlling influence over future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us and a third party may be deterred from investing in us. Intense competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The market for video and voice-over-IP services is extremely competitive. Our competitors include companies in the video and voice-over-IP industry. Many of our existing competitors and potential competitors have broader portfolios of services, greater financial, management and operational resources, greater brand-name recognition, larger subscriber bases and more experience than we have. In addition, our Internet competitors use the Internet instead of a private network to transmit traffic, and the operating and capital costs of these providers may be less than ours. If we are unable to provide competitive service offerings, we may lose existing customers and be unable to attract additional customers. In addition, many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in a lower cost structure for transmission and related costs, which cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. We may not have sufficient resources to make these investments or to make the technical advances necessary to be competitive, which, in turn, will cause our business to suffer. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may make it difficult for investors to predict our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. The factors generally within our control include: · the rate at which we are able to attract users to purchase our video and voice-over-IP products and services; · the amount and timing of expenses to enhance marketing and promotion efforts and to expand our infrastructure; and · the timing of announcements or introductions of new or enhanced services by us. 15 The factors outside our control include: · the timing of announcements or introductions of new or enhanced services by our competitors; · regulations in various countries that prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all; · technical difficulties or network interruptions in the Internet or our privately-managed network; and · general economic and competitive conditions specific to our industry. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance, nor would our operating results for any particular quarter be indicative of our future operating results. We face a risk of failure of computer and communications systems used in our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems as well as those that connect to our network. We maintain communications systems in facilities in New Jersey, Atlanta, London and Frankfurt. Although we have designed our network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our systems and those that connect to our network are subject to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, communications failure, hardware or software malfunction, network failures, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of terrorism or vandalism and other events that may be or may not be beyond our control. Any system interruptions that cause our services to be unavailable, including significant or lengthy telephone network failures or difficulties for users in communicating through our network or portal, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of users. Our computer systems and operations may be vulnerable to security breaches. We believe that the safety of our network and the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet are essential to our operations and maintaining user confidence in our services. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our network, the consumer information stored on our network, unauthorized use of our network and other security breaches, our computer infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic computer viruses, abuse of use, break-ins and similar disruptive problems and security breaches that could cause loss (both economic and otherwise), interruptions, delays or loss of services to our users. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities or new technologies could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect user transaction data. A party that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or utilize our network without authorization. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. While we have experienced isolated instances of unauthorized use of our network, and have responded to such events by taking steps to increase our network security, we cannot guarantee you that our security measures will prevent security breaches. Operating internationally exposes us to additional and unpredictable risks. We operate in many international markets. There are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including: · uncertainty regarding the ability of our resellers to resell our service in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations in such markets and actions by foreign governments or foreign telecommunications companies to limit access to our services; · political and economic instability; · fluctuations in exchange rates; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · potentially weaker protection of intellectual property rights; and · uncertain market acceptance and difficulties in marketing efforts due to language and cultural differences. We need to retain key personnel to support our products and ongoing operations. The marketing and operations of our products and services will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees whom we rely upon to run our operations; this is particularly true following the significant reduction in the number of employees that occurred as a result of the reductions in force that we experienced during 2008 Except for Mr. Effi Baruch, our interim Chief Executive Officer and President, and Senior Vice President of Technology and Operations, none of our officers or key employees is subject to an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of these officers or key employees could impact our ability to run our operations and delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. We currently do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. 16 Our ability to provide our service and to comply with certain regulatory obligations is dependent in part upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, expose us to legal liability, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer's broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We also outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. In addition, our E-911 service is currently dependent upon a third-party provider. Interruptions in service from this vendor could cause failures in our customers' access to E-911 services. Finally, our service offerings that integrate with the public switched telephone network are wholly reliant on third party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our calls to users of traditional telephone services. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities or service providers have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers, or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability. Our emergency calling service and E-911 calling service are different from the corresponding services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. These differences may lead to failures that would not occur for users of traditional telephony services. For example, providers of interconnected VoIP services, like us, must use components of both the wireline and wireless infrastructure in unique ways that can result in failure. Also, emergency services provided over the Internet can be adversely impacted by power outages and network congestion that do not necessarily have the same adverse impact on users of traditional telephone services. Emergency call centers may not be equipped with appropriate hardware or software to accurately process and respond to emergency calls received by consumers of interconnected VoIP services. Finally, users of nomadic interconnected VoIP services must manually update their location information, and failure to do so can result in dispatching of assistance to the wrong location. For these reasons, some of our customers do not receive emergency services in full compliance with the FCC rules. Any of these failures could result in enforcement action by the FCC, significant monetary penalties and restrictions on our ability to offer non-compliant services. Third parties might infringe upon our proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technology. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademarks and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, strategic partners and others. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Effective trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our services. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could materially harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in significant financial expenses and managerial resources. Third parties may claim that our services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them and subject us to expensive and disruptive litigation. For example, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas-Tyler Division by Centre One alleging, inter alia, that we have sold and are offering for sale a VoIP service that infringes a patent held by Centre One. In addition, we incorporate licensed third-party technology in some of our products and services. In these license agreements, the licensors have agreed to indemnify us with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed software infringes any patent or other proprietary right so long as we have not made changes to the licensed software. We cannot assure you that these provisions will be adequate to protect us from infringement claims. Any infringement claims and lawsuits, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; divert management’s attention and resources; require us to redesign our products, if feasible; require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and/or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. 17 Risks Related to our Industry Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to IP telephony could harm our business. Historically, voice communications services have been provided by regulated telecommunications common carriers. We offer voice communications to the public for international and domestic calls using IP telephony, and we do not operate as a licensed telecommunications common carrier in many jurisdictions based on specific regulatory classifications and recent regulatory decisions. However, the growth of IP telephony has led to close examination of its regulatory treatment in many jurisdictions, making the legal status of our services uncertain and subject to change as a result of future regulatory action, judicial decisions or legislation in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Established regulated telecommunications carriers have sought and may continue to seek regulatory actions to restrict the ability of companies such as ours to provide services or to increase the cost of providing such services. Application of new regulatory restrictions or requirements to us could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from delivering our services through our current arrangements. In such event, we would consider a variety of alternative arrangements for providing our services, including obtaining appropriate regulatory authorizations for our local network partners or ourselves, changing our service arrangements for a particular country or limiting our service offerings. Such regulations could limit our service offerings, raise our costs and restrict our pricing flexibility, and potentially limit our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, regulations and laws that affect the growth of the Internet could hinder our ability to provide our services over the Internet. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services (or our resellers from reselling our services) cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. Currently, there are several countries where regulations prohibit us and our resellers from offering service. We cannot assure you that these conditions will not have a material effect on our revenues and growth in the future. In addition, because customers can use our services almost anywhere that a broadband Internet connection is available, including countries where providing VoIP services is illegal, the governments of those countries may attempt to assert jurisdiction over us, which could expose us to significant liability and regulation. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the communications industry. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the market in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use and/or may render our services and technologies obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving and expanding the scope of services we offer and by developing new services and technologies to meet customer needs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. We will need to spend significant amounts of capital to enhance and expand our services to keep pace with changing technologies. The success of our business is affected by customers' unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. A portion of our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Some providers of broadband access have taken measures that affect their customers' ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. It is not clear whether suppliers of broadband access services have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers' access to VoIP or otherwise discriminating against VoIP providers. Interference with our service or higher charges for using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. We are not currently accepting customers in areas where we cannot provide E-911 service in conformity with the FCC’s rules. This has adversely impacted the ability of iConnectHere to accept new customers and may also have an adverse effect on our sales to customers who resell our service. 18 Various U.S. state and local fees, taxes and surcharges may increase our costs and our customers' cost of using our services. Some state and local regulatory authorities claim that they retain jurisdiction to regulate the provision of, and impose taxes, fees and surcharges on, intrastate Internet and VoIP telephony services, and have attempted to impose such taxes, fees and surcharges, such as a fee for providing E-911 service. There is also a risk that state authorities may attempt to impose on us state USF contribution obligations. At this time, at least three states contend that providers of interconnected VoIP services, like us, should contribute to their respective USF funds, and Nebraska along with one other state filed a petition with the FCC seeking authority to impose state USF contributions on interconnected VoIP providers and sought retroactive authority to do so. We cannot predict how the FCC will rule on this petition. Should the FCC allow states to impose state USF contribution obligations on interconnected VoIP providers like us it, and allow for such authority on a retroactive basis, it could require us to either increase our retail price or reduce our profit margins and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that we will be required to collect and remit taxes, fees and surcharges in other states and local jurisdictions, and which such authorities may take the position that we should have collected. If so, they may seek to collect those past taxes, fees and surcharges from us and impose fines, penalties or interest charges on us. Our payment of these past taxes, fees and surcharges, as well as penalties and interest charges, could have a material adverse effect on us. We have completed a study of state and local taxes and other fees and have accrued approximately $150,000 of estimated state and local taxes and other fees due as of December 31, 2009, out of a total tax accrual of $300,000. We have also determined that we need to collect and remit sales and excise taxes in certain states and local jurisdictions and will begin collecting and remitting such sales and excise taxes in the immediate future. We have begun the process of registering with the relevant state authorities and entering into discussions with the relevant state tax authorities to finalize the amounts due. To the extent we increase the cost of services to our customers to recoup some of the costs of compliance, this will have the effect of decreasing any price advantage we may have over traditional telecommunications companies. There may be risks associated with our ability to comply with funding requirements of the USF and similar state or federal funds as well as other FCC-mandated funding requirements or that our customers will cancel service due to the impact of these or other price increases to their service. We began contributing to the USF during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 and began charging our customers a USF surcharge fee. In addition, we are required to collect and remit other FCC-related fees, such as the TRS fund and contributions towards local number portability, and the FCC and state public utilities commissions are considering subjecting interconnected VoIP providers like us to additional fees and surcharges. The impact of this price increase on our customers or our inability to recoup the costs or liabilities in remitting such fees as well as any future fees could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, or could cause some customers to cancel our service due to the loss of any price advantage we may have over traditional telecommunications companies. In addition, we have an ongoing billing dispute with respect to our contributions to certain subsidy programs overseen by the FCC. We have filed an appeal regarding these billings, and expect that many of the billings will eventually be credited back to us in the third quarter of 2010. During this time, the FCC could consider the unpaid amounts as delinquent and assess late charges and interest on the unpaid amount until the credits are given. These late charges will likely not be credited back to us. The FCC could also pursue collection of the amount pending resolution of the dispute, prior to any credits being received, or attempt to impose a monetary fine on us. While we believe that our claims for these credits are meritorious, any such action by the FCC could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Future legislation or regulation of our service offerings may increase our costs, which may result in either our increasing the retail price of our service offerings or reducing our profitability. The FCC has several ongoing proceedings that could negatively impact us. Specifically, the FCC may reform the system of payments between companies that connect telephone companies. Such reforms may increase the charges we pay to other companies for handling our calls. The FCC may adopt more stringent E-911 obligations. This could result in us having to deploy new technologies or engage a third party to provide services in compliance with the new regulations, increasing our costs. The FCC may determine that some or all of our offerings are properly classified as “telecommunications” services subjecting our offerings to state and federal regulations, thereby increasing our compliance costs. The U.S. Congress, state legislatures, state regulatory commissions and foreign regulatory commissions could attempt to impose additional obligations on us at any time. We cannot predict the outcome of the pending FCC proceedings or what actions such other governmental and regulatory bodies may take that may affect us. Risks Related to our Relationship with D4 Holdings D4 Holdings controls a majority of our common stock and has the ability to exercise control over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote. D4 Holdings currently owns approximately 54.0% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and, in the event it exercises in full the warrant that we issued to it to purchase up to an additional 30,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.04 per share, it will own approximately 67.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as D4 Holdings continues to beneficially own more than 50% of the voting power of our company, D4 Holdings will be able to exercise a controlling influence over decisions affecting us, including: · composition of our board of directors and, through it, our direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; · potential mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets and other significant corporate transactions; · future issuances of capital stock or other securities by us; · incurrence of debt by us; · amendments, waivers and modifications to any agreements between us and D4 Holdings; 19 · payment of dividends on our capital stock; and · approval of our business plans and general business development. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or result in strategic decisions that could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our outstanding stock. D4 Holdings also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and D4 Holdings concerning, among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. D4 Holdings is not restricted from competitive activities or investments. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of D4 Holdings will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Also, four of our seven directors are affiliated with D4 Holdings. As a result, the ability of any of our other stockholders to influence the management of our company is limited, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. The ownership of D4 Holdings includes owners of ACN, and we may engage in commercial transactions with ACN and its affiliated entities in the future. D4 Holdings is a private investment fund whose ownership includes owners of ACN. Several of the members of our board of directors currently serve as officers and/or directors of ACN. Because ACN is a direct seller of telecommunications services, we may seek to engage in commercial transactions to provide services to ACN in the future. During the third quarter of 2009 we entered into an agreement with ACN Pacific Pty Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACN, pursuant to which we provide digital video and voice-over-IP telecommunications services in Australia and New Zealand to ACN Pacific. During the fourth quarter of 2009 we entered into an agreement with Ojo Service, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of WorldGate Communications, Inc. pursuant to which we provide pursuant to which we provide Ojo Service digital video and voice-over-IP services in the United States. WorldGate is majority-owned by WGI Investor LLC, which shares common majority ownership and a common manager with D4 Holdings. Although we expect that the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of ACN and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us as might otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. As a result of D4 Holding’s controlling interest in deltathree a third party may be deterred from attempting to acquire our company. D4 Holding’s controlling interest in deltathree could delay, deter or prevent a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. This may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, even though such a change in ownership would be economically beneficial to us and our stockholders. Our stockholders may suffer dilution in the future in the event that D4 Holdings exercises its warrant. On February 12, 2009, we issued to D4 Holdings 39,000,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $1,170,000 and a warrant, exercisable for up to ten years, to purchase up to an additional 30,000,000 shares of our common stock for a purchase price of $0.04 per share. In the event that D4 Holdings exercises the warrant, in full or in part, our existing stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. Risks Related to our Common Stock Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. From the time that trading commenced in our common stock in November 1999, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: · the market price for the stock of our major competitors; · variations in our actual or anticipated quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations; · introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; · our entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures; and · purchases and sales of our common stock by D4 Holdings. All of these factors are, in whole or part, beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. Investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to such volatility. In addition, the market price for shares of telecommunications, Internet-related and technology companies has dramatically decreased. We cannot assure you that our common stock will trade at the same levels of other telecommunications or Internet stocks. 20 Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may increase the volatility of our stock and make it harder to sell shares of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which tends to be a highly illiquid market. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board (as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system), as a result of which stockholders may experience wide fluctuations and a depressed price in the market price of our securities. Thus, stockholders may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than their purchase price or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than they planned. Because our common stock falls under the definition of “penny stock,” trading in our common stock may be limited because broker-dealers are required to provide their customers with disclosure documents prior to allowing them to participate in transactions involving our common stock. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors; and require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. As a result, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock might decline, and stockholders could find it more difficult to sell their stock. Risks Related to our Israel Operations We may be negatively impacted by changes in political, military and/or economic conditions. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. A peace agreement between Israel and Egypt was signed in 1979 and a peace agreement between Israel and Jordan was signed in 1994. However, as of the date hereof Israel has not entered into any peace agreement with Syria or Lebanon. Despite peace related developments, certain countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms. We do not believe that the boycott has had a material adverse effect on us, but there can be no assurance that restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli-based businesses will not have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition in the future. Our costs of operations have at times been affected by changes in the cost of our operations in Israel resulting from changes in the value of the Israeli shekel relative to the U.S. dollar. Recently, the weakening of the dollar relative to the shekel has significantly increased the costs of our Israeli operations, stated in U. S. dollars. Israel’s economy has been subject to numerous destabilizing factors, including a period of rampant inflation in the early- to mid-l980s, low foreign exchange reserves, fluctuations in world commodity prices and military conflicts. The Israeli Government has, for these and other reasons, intervened in the economy by utilizing, among other means, fiscal and monetary policies, import duties, foreign currency restrictions and control of wages, prices and exchange rates. The Israeli Government has periodically changed its policies in all these areas. Although we derive most of our revenues outside of Israel, a substantial portion of our expenses are incurred in Israel and are affected by economic conditions in the country. All of these factors are, in whole or part, beyond our control and may materially adversely affect on our business, financial condition and operating results, or market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. We may be negatively impacted by employees being called for army service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 41 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all such residents are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Furthermore, some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. While we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, no assessment can be made as to the full impact of such requirements on our workforce or business if conditions should change, and no prediction can be made as to the effect on us of any expansion of such obligations. 