Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain of the important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. The global recession and related credit crisis may continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. The U.S. and other global economies have recently experienced a recession that has affected all sectors of the economy, resulting in declines in economic growth and consumer confidence, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. Global credit and financial markets have also experienced extreme disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations. Our business has been affected by these conditions, and there is no certainty that economic conditions will not deteriorate further. These uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Weak economic conditions may lead consumers and businesses to continue to postpone spending, which may cause our clients to decrease or delay their purchases of our products and services. In addition, the inability of clients to obtain credit could negatively affect our revenues and our ability to collect receivables. Financial difficulties experienced by our strategic partners could result in a reduction in the revenues we derive from license sales originated by them or detract from the quality or timeliness of the consulting, implementation or other professional services they provide to our clients, which could adversely affect our reputation and relationships with our clients. If the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, we could be required to record charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. These trends could have a material adverse impact on our business, our ability to achieve targeted results of operations, and our financial condition, among other things. We expect our revenues and operating results to continue to fluctuate for the foreseeable future. If our quarterly or annual results are lower than the expectations of securities analysts, then the price of our common stock is likely to fall. Our revenues and operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past and will probably continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the foreseeable future. A number of factors are likely to cause variations in our operating results, including: • fluctuating economic conditions, particularly as they affect our clients’ willingness to implement new e-commerce solutions and their ability to pay for our products and services; • the timing of recognition of revenue from our products and services, which is affected by the mix of product license revenue and services provided; • the timing of client orders, especially larger transactions, and product implementations; • our ability to cultivate and maintain strategic alliances; • delays in introducing new products and services; • price discounting and concessions that we may offer in response to competitive conditions; • changes in the mix of revenues derived from higher and lower-margin products and services; • timing of hiring and utilization of personnel; • cost overruns related to fixed-price services projects; • the mix of domestic and international sales; • variation in our actual costs from our cost estimates related to long term hosting contracts; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development, or administration; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of technologies or businesses. 8 In any given quarter, we often depend on several relatively large license transactions to meet expected revenues for that quarter. If we expect to complete a large sale to a specific client in a particular quarter and the sale is not completed in that quarter, then we are not likely to be able to generate revenue from alternate sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. In addition, as is the case with many software companies, a significant number of our sales transactions are concentrated near the end of each fiscal quarter. If we are unable to close or recognize revenues on even a relatively small number of license deals at quarter-end, then we may not be able to meet expected revenues for that quarter. Because of this concentration of sales at quarter end, clients may seek to obtain higher price discounts than we might otherwise provide by waiting until quarter-end to complete their transactions with us. Additionally, we believe that there is significant uncertainty in our future profits due to the growing breadth of our product mix which may result in an accounting treatment that requires us to defer the recognition of revenue in amounts greater than we are currently projecting. We may not be able to sustain or increase our revenue or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry which makes it more difficult to predict our future operating results, and current macro-economic conditions compound this difficulty. We cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or our expenses will decrease at rates that will allow us to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, we expect to recognize an increasing portion of our revenue ratably over a period of time rather than at the time invoiced. This may vary from quarter to quarter and may have an adverse effect on our revenue and net income, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult to predict our quarterly results and causes variability in our operating results. We have a long sales cycle, often several months or quarters, because our clients often need to make large expenditures and invest substantial resources in order to take advantage of our products and services and also because we generally need to educate potential clients about the use and benefits of our products and services. This long sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses in anticipation of selling our products, and if we do not achieve the level of revenues we expected, our operating results will suffer and our stock price may decline. Further, our potential clients frequently need to obtain approvals from multiple decision makers before making purchase decisions. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular period. If the market for e-commerce does not continue to grow, then demand for our products and services may decrease. Our success depends heavily on the continued use of the Internet for e-commerce. Many companies continue to rely primarily or exclusively on traditional means of commerce and may be reluctant to change their patterns of commerce. For our clients and potential clients to be willing to invest in our electronic commerce and online marketing, sales, and service applications, the Internet must continue to be accepted and widely used for commerce and communication. If Internet commerce does not grow or grows more slowly than expected, then our future revenues and profits may not meet our expectations or those of analysts. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for online business applications, then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products is constantly and rapidly evolving, as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products, retire older ones, and react to changes in Internet-related technology and client demands, coalescence of product differentiators, product commoditization and evolving industry standards. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products or product enhancements that comply with present or emerging Internet technology standards or differentiate our products based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances with operating system and infrastructure vendors that will permit migration or upgrade opportunities for our current user base. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. 9 To succeed, we need to enhance our current products and develop new products on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs, satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of clients, and leverage strategic alliances with third parties in the e-commerce field who have complementary or competing products. E-commerce technology is complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and clients. We face intense competition in the market for e-commerce applications and services, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to remain competitive then our revenues may decline, which could adversely affect our future operating results and our ability to grow our business. A number of competitive factors could cause us to lose potential sales or to sell our products and services at lower prices or at reduced margins, including, among others: • Potential clients or partners may choose to develop e-commerce applications in-house, rather than paying for our products or services. • Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do, allowing them to leverage a larger installed client base and distribution network, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive sales terms, adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in client requirements, and devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. • Our suite of service products competes against various vendors’ software tools designed to address a specific element or elements of the complete set of eService processes, including e-mail management, support, knowledge management, and web-based customer self-service and assisted service. • Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and expand their markets, and consolidation in our industry is likely to intensify. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. • Some of our current and potential competitors, especially our larger competitors like IBM that offer broad suites of computer and software applications, may offer free or low-cost e-commerce applications and functionality bundled with their own computer and software products. Potential clients may not see the need to buy our products and services separately when they can use the bundled applications and functionality in our competitors’ product suites for little or no additional cost. If the market for ATG Commerce OnDemand or ATG Optimization Services does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, then our business could be negatively affected. Our ATG Commerce OnDemand managed application hosting services and ATG Optimization Services offerings are at an early stage of development, and we may not achieve or sustain demand for these offerings. Our success in this effort will depend in part on the price, performance, and availability of our products and services in comparison with competing products and services and on the willingness of companies to increase their use of hosting applications. While we will continue to market and sell traditional licenses for our software solutions, we believe that the widespread market acceptance of our hosting solutions and ATG Optimization Services is important to the success of our business because of the growth opportunities that they present. We may incur significant unanticipated costs and our profitability may suffer if we do not accurately estimate the costs of fixed-price Professional Services engagements. From time to time, our Professional Services projects are based on fixed-price contracts, rather than contracts in which payment to us is determined on a time and materials, or other basis. Our failure to estimate accurately the resources and schedule required for a project, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which our fixed-price contract was based, could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We are entering into more contracts for large projects that magnify this risk. We have been required to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects in the past, which has occasionally resulted in losses on those contracts. We will likely experience similar situations in the future. In addition, we may establish the price for some projects at an early stage of the project engagement, which could result in a fixed price that is too low. Therefore, any changes from our original estimates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our clients experience interruptions, delays, or failures in our managed application hosting service or SaaS services, we could incur significant costs and lose revenue opportunities. ATG Commerce OnDemand, which is delivered as a managed application hosting service, and our Optimization services, which are delivered on a SaaS basis, are still at a relatively early stage of development. Any equipment failures, mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume, or failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail or malfunction, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any such interruptions or delays in our hosting or SaaS services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters, or accidental or willful security breaches, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, or cause our clients to decide not to renew their agreements with us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend heavily on key employees in a competitive labor market. Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain skilled personnel, especially in the areas of management, finance, sales, marketing, and research and development, and we compete with other companies for a small pool of highly qualified employees. Members of our management team have left us from time to time for a variety of reasons, and there may be additional departures in the future. These historical and potential future changes in personnel may be disruptive to our operations or affect our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, equity incentives such as stock options constitute an important part of our total compensation program for employees, and as a result of declines in our stock price a substantial number of our outstanding stock options are out of the money. Continued volatility or lack of positive performance of our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain our employees or hire replacements. We could incur substantial costs defending against a claim of infringement or protecting our intellectual property from infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing Internet-related products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our technology infringes its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. We have been subject to claims and litigation alleging that we have infringed United States patents owned by third parties. We may also acquire companies that are subject to pending claims of infringement. For example, InstantService.com, Inc., or InstantService which we acquired on January 8, 2010, is a defendant in a patent infringement action brought by LivePerson, Inc. in May 2009. We may be required to incur substantial costs in defending any such infringement litigation in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify clients against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, our clients have been subject to third party patent claims and we have agreed to indemnify these clients to the extent the claims related to our products. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party may force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign those products or services to avoid infringement. 11 We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software under a combination of patent, copyright and trade secrets law. However, because we make the source code available to some clients, third parties may be more likely to misappropriate it. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and clients and to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for someone to copy our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. However, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Any such resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. Finally, our professional services may involve the development of custom software applications for specific clients. In some cases, clients retain ownership or impose restrictions on our ability to use the technologies developed from these projects. Issues relating to the ownership of software can be complicated, and disputes could arise that affect our ability to resell or reuse applications we develop for clients. If we fail to maintain our existing client base, then our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from existing clients that purchase our support and maintenance services and license enhanced versions of our products. If we are unable to continue to obtain significant revenues from our existing client base, then our ability to grow our business would be harmed, and our competitors could achieve greater market share. The current trend toward e-commerce replatforming may increase this risk. When existing clients re-evaluate their e-commerce platforms and solutions, they may elect to replace our e-commerce solutions with those of other vendors. If they do, these clients, as well as other prospective clients who choose e-commerce solutions other than ours in connection with their replatforming, are likely to commit substantial expenditures and investments of time and resources to the implementation of the e-commerce solution included in their new chosen platforms, reducing the probability that we will be able to penetrate those accounts in the near future. If we fail to address the challenges associated with our international operations, then revenues from our products and services may decline, and the costs of providing our products or services may increase. As of December 31, 2009, we had offices in Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, and the United Kingdom. We derived 31% of our total revenues in 2009, 29% of our total revenues in 2008, and 32% of our total revenues in 2007 from clients outside the United States. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in exchange rates that may increase volatility of foreign based revenue; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable in Western Europe and Asia; • difficulties in managing systems integrators and technology partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; • differing technology standards; • difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into foreign languages for countries in which English is not the primary language; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate; 12 • difficulties related to entering into legal contracts under local laws and in foreign languages; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. We may need financing in the future, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses, or respond to unanticipated situations. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions, or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The terms of these securities, as well as any borrowings under our credit agreement, could impose restrictions on our operations. We have acquired and intend to acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. On January 8, 2010 we acquired InstantService, a Seattle-based provider of click-to-chat solutions and e-mail management for approximately $17.0 million. We intend to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our application suite, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We have no current agreements or commitments with respect to a material transaction at the present time. However, in the ordinary course of business we may engage in discussions at any time relating to possible acquisitions and investments, including acquisitions that, if consummated, could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies of InstantService or other businesses we may acquire successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as expense under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 805-10, Business Combinations; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and clients as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. 13 If systems integrators or value added resellers reduce their support and implementation of our products, then our revenues may fail to meet expectations and our operating results would suffer. Since our potential clients often rely on third-party systems integrators to develop, deploy, and manage websites for conducting commerce on the Internet, we cultivate relationships with systems integrators to encourage them to support our products. We do not, however, generally have written agreements with our systems integrators, and they are not required to implement solutions that include our products or to maintain minimum sales levels of our products. Our revenues would be reduced if we fail to train a sufficient number of systems integrators adequately or if systems integrators devote their efforts to integrating or co-selling products of other companies. Any such reduction in revenue would not be accompanied by a significant offset in our expenses. As a result, our operating results would suffer, and the price of our common stock would probably fall. If our software products contain serious errors or defects, then we may lose revenues and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by our clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance. Since our clients use our products for critical business applications such as e-commerce, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our clients. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our products. Government or industry regulations could directly restrict our business or indirectly affect our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. As e-commerce evolves, federal, state and foreign agencies have adopted and could in the future adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, content, and taxation of products and services. Government regulations could limit the market for our products and services or impose burdensome requirements that render our business unprofitable. Although many regulations might not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could indirectly affect our business. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in web usage and decrease its acceptance as a medium of communications and commerce. The Internet has generated privacy concerns that could result in legislation or market perceptions that could result in reduced sales of our products and harm our business. Businesses use our ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product to develop and maintain profiles to tailor the content to be provided to website visitors. When a visitor first arrives at a website, our software creates a profile for that visitor. If the visitor registers or logs in, the visitor’s identity is added to the profile, preserving any profile information that was gathered up to that point. ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product tracks both explicit user profile data supplied by the user as well as implicit profile attributes derived from the user’s behavior on the website. Privacy concerns may cause visitors to resist providing the personal data or to avoid websites that track the web behavioral information necessary to support our profiling capability. More importantly, even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used to direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Other countries and political entities, such as the European Economic Community, have adopted such legislation or 14 regulatory requirements, and the United States may follow suit. Privacy legislation and consumer privacy concerns could make it harder for us to sell our products and services, resulting in reduced revenues. Our products use “cookies” to track demographic information and user preferences. A “cookie” is information keyed to a specific user that is stored on a computer’s hard drive, typically without the user’s knowledge. The user can generally remove the cookies, although removal could affect the content available on a particular site. Germany has imposed laws limiting the use of cookies, and a number of Internet commentators and governmental bodies in the United States and other countries have urged passage of laws limiting or abolishing the use of cookies. If such laws are passed or if users begin to delete or refuse cookies as a common practice, then demand for our personalization products could be reduced. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Certain provisions of our charter and by-laws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that some of our stockholders may consider favorable, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • providing that directors may only be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of stockholders; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders and prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • authorizing anti-takeover provisions. In addition, we adopted a shareholder rights plan in 2001. The existence of our shareholder rights plan, as well as certain provisions of Delaware law, may further discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Continued compliance with regulatory and accounting requirements will be challenging and will require significant resources. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC rules and regulations, and Nasdaq Global Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of internal control over financial reporting. The process of documenting and testing internal control over financial reporting has required that we hire additional personnel and outside services and has resulted in higher accounting and legal expenses. While we invested significant time and money in our effort to evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting, a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting in 2006. Although the material weakness was remediated in 2007, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal controls and procedures, including cost limitations, the possibility of human error, judgments and assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events, and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 