D. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We reported losses in 2007 and 2008. We may experience additional losses in the future. We reported a net loss of $3.9 million in 2007 and $81.3 million in 2008. We also reported a loss of $3.1 million in the first quarter of 2009. The loss in 2008 included a non-cash impairment charge of $86.1 million taken in the fourth quarter of 2008 with respect to goodwill, intangible assets and investment in an affiliate. The majority of our expenses are directly and indirectly related to the number of people we employ. We may increase our expenses based on projections of revenue growth. If at any given time we do not meet our expectations for growth in revenues our expenses incurred in anticipation of projected revenues may cause us to incur a loss. We may not be able to anticipate a loss in advance and adjust our variable costs accordingly. We will need to increase revenues and reduce expenses in order to return to profitability. 3 We have depended, and expect to continue to depend, on a small number of large customers. Our largest customer, Nortel Networks, filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2009. The loss of Nortel or one of our other large customers or the reduction in purchases by a significant customer or failure of such customer to pay for the products it purchases from us could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has been derived from large purchases by a small number of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and network equipment providers, or NEPs, systems integrators and distributors. For example, our top three customers accounted for approximately 24.9% of our revenues in 2006, 26.1% of our revenues in 2007 and 20.9% of our revenues in 2008. Based on our experience, we expect that our customer base may change from period to period. If we lose a large customer and fail to add new customers, or if purchases made by such customers are significantly reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales to Nortel Networks, our largest customer, accounted for 14.4% of our revenues in 2008 compared to 17.0% of our revenues in 2007 and 15.2% of our revenues in 2006. Nortel filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2009. As a result of this bankruptcy filing, $1.7 million of sales to Nortel in the fourth quarter of 2008 were recorded as unpaid deferred revenues which also reduced trade receivables on our balance sheet. The effect of this bankruptcy filing by Nortel on the business of Nortel and, in turn, the impact on the purchase of our products by Nortel cannot be determined at this time. Any significant reduction in sales to Nortel or the inability to collect a significant portion of amounts owed to us by Nortel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. The current economic and credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on business around the world. The impact of this crisis on the technology industry and our major customers has been severe. Conditions may continue to be depressed or may be subject to further deterioration which could lead to a further reduction in consumer and customer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. A significant adverse change in a customer’s financial and/or credit position could also require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or could limit our ability to collect receivables related to previous purchases by that customer. As a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. 4 We may not be able to raise additional financing for our capital needs on favorable terms, or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and to continue our longer term expansion plans. The conversion price of our senior convertible notes is significantly higher than the market price of our ordinary shares and these notes are trading at a discount to their principal amount. As a result, in November 2009, we may be required to repay all or a portion of the $73.5 million in principal amount of our outstanding senior convertible notes when the holders of these notes can require us to repurchase the notes. We may need to raise additional capital to continue our longer term expansion plans. To the extent that we cannot fund our activities and acquisition program through our existing cash resources and any cash we generate from operations, we may need to raise equity or debt funds through additional public or private financings. We borrowed $30 million in 2008 that is repayable in 20 equal quarterly payments of $1.5 million from August, 2008 through July 2013. We will need to pay these installments and could also be required to repay all or portion of these bank loans if we do not comply with covenants in our loan agreements with respect to maintaining shareholders’ equity at specified levels or achieving certain levels of operating income. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. This could inhibit our growth, increase our financing costs or cause us severe financial difficulties. We have entered into an agreement for the construction and long term lease of a new building in Israel. If we are unable to sublease the property under reasonable commercial terms, we may incur increased operating expenses which could adversely affect our results of operations. In May, 2007, we entered into an agreement with respect to property adjacent to our headquarters in Israel, pursuant to which a building of approximately 145,000 square feet will be erected and leased to us for period of eleven years. This new building is expected to be completed in 2010. We estimate the annual lease payments (including management fees) to be in the range of $2.0 million to $3.2 million, depending on the amount expended on improvements made to the building. The leased property was intended to serve our expanding needs. However, in view of current economic conditions and our reduction in personnel undertaken in 2008, we may not need to occupy the entire building and may seek to sublease all or a portion of the new building to third parties. If we are unable to enter into a sublease or enter into a sublease for an amount that is less than our obligations under the lease, we may incur significant additional operating expenses which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the development of the VoIP market to increase our sales. We are dependent on the development of the Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, market to increase our sales. Most existing networks are still not based on Voice over Packet technology which we use in our products designed for the VoIP market. We cannot be sure that the delivery of telephone and other communications services over packet networks will expand or that there will be a need to interconnect to other networks utilizing the type of technology contained in our products. For example, the need for our Media Gateway products depends on the need to inter connect VoIP networks with traditional non-packet based networks. Our session border control products depend on growth in the need to inter connect Voice over Packet networks with each other. The adaptation process of connecting packet networks and telephone networks can be time consuming and costly. Sales of our VoIP products will depend on the development of packet networks and the commercialization of VoIP services. If this market develops more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to sell our products in a significant enough volume to be profitable. 5 We intend to expand our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. Part of our strategy is to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and technologies or to establish joint ventures to expand our business. For example, in April 2003, we purchased a product group from Nortel Networks and in May 2004 we purchased Ai-Logix Inc., now known as AudioCodes Inc. In 2005, we invested in two Israeli-based companies, MailVision Ltd. and CTI Squared Ltd., and continued investing in Natural Speech Communication Ltd. We have recognized losses from our equity investment in Natural Speech Communication in our results of operations in each of the past three years. In December 2008, we began consolidating the financial results of Natural Speech Communication in our financial results since we became the primary beneficiary in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised), or FASB Interpretation (“FIN”) 46R, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities - An Interpretation of ARB No. 51”. In July 2006, we acquired Nuera Communications, Inc. (which merged into AudioCodes Inc.), in August 2006, we acquired Netrake Corporation (which merged into AudioCodes Inc.), and in April 2007, we completed our acquisition of CTI Squared Ltd. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. Nuera is significantly larger than any other acquisition we have made. As a result, we have experienced a diversion of our management’s time and resources in connection with the integration and operation of Nuera’s business. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. The markets for the products produced by the companies we acquire may take longer than we anticipated to develop and to result in increased sales and profits for us. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition, investment or joint venture and we may incur losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. The future valuation of acquired businesses may be less than the purchase price we paid and result in impairment charges related to goodwill or intangible assets. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $86.1 million with respect to goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions and an investment in an affiliated company. These charges were identified in connection with our annual impairment tests and reflect market conditions. In addition, acquisitions could result in: ● substantial cash expenditures; ● potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; ● the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; 6 ● a decrease in our profit margins; ● amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, such as occurred during 2008; ● reduction of management attention to other parts of the business; ● failure to invest in different areas or alternative investments; ● failure to generate expected financial results or reach business goals; and ● increased expenditures on human resources and related costs. If acquisitions disrupt our sales or marketing efforts or operations, our business may suffer. We recorded significant charges during the fourth quarter of 2008 which caused us to report a net loss for 2008. If our goodwill and other intangibles become further impaired, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings. We recorded aggregate charges of $86.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 for impairment charges with respect to goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions and an investment in an affiliated company. As a result, we reported a net loss for 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had goodwill and other intangibles in an aggregate amount of $32.1 million, or approximately 13.9% of our total assets and 38.5% of our shareholders’ equity. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill and other intangibles for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill and other intangibles may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and profitability and slower growth rates in our industry. Our impairment charges in 2008 were primarily the result of a decrease in our market capitalization. Estimates of future cash flows and profitability are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. A further significant decline in our market capitalization or deterioration in our projected results could result in additional impairment of goodwill and/or intangibles. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, as happened in 2008, which would negatively impact our results of operations and could negatively impact our stock price. If new products we recently introduced or expect to introduce in the future fail to generate the level of demand we anticipated, we will realize a lower than expected return from our investment in research and development with respect to those products, and our results of operations may suffer. Our success is dependent, in part, on the willingness of our customers to transition or migrate to new products, such as our expanded offering of Mediant and IPmedia products, the session border controller products that we now offer as a result of our acquisition of Netrake, the Multi Service Business Gateways (MSBGs) we recently introduced, the software application products that we now offer as a result of our acquisition of CTI Squared, or expected future products. We are involved in a continuous process of evaluating changing market demands and customer requirements in order to develop and introduce new products, features and applications to meet changing demands and requirements. We need to be able to interpret market trends and the advancement of technology in order to successfully develop and introduce new products, features and applications. If potential customers defer transition or migration to new products, our return on our investment in research and development with respect to products recently introduced or expected to be introduced in the near future will be lower than we originally anticipated and our results of our operations may suffer. 7 Because of the rapid technological development in the communications equipment market and the intense competition we face, our products can become outmoded or obsolete in a relatively short period of time, which requires us to provide frequent updates and/or replacements to existing products. If we do not successfully manage the transition process to the next generation of our products, our operating results may be harmed. The communications equipment market is characterized by rapid technological innovation and intense competition. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to develop next generation products in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new products is expensive, complex and time consuming. If we do not rapidly develop our next generation products ahead of our competitors, we may lose both existing and potential customers to our competitors. Further, if a competitor develops a new, less expensive product using a different technological approach to delivering informational services over existing networks, our products would no longer be competitive. Conversely, even if we are successful in rapidly developing new products ahead of our competitors and we do not cost-effectively manage our inventory levels of existing products when making the transition to the new products, our financial results could be negatively affected by high levels of obsolete inventory. If any of the foregoing were to occur, then our operating results would be harmed. Our industry is rapidly evolving and we may not be able to keep pace with technological changes, which could adversely affect our business. The transmission of multimedia over data networks is rapidly evolving. Short product life cycles place a premium on our ability to manage the transition from current products to new products. Our future success in generating revenues will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products and product features. These products and features must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. The development of new technologies and products is increasingly complex and uncertain. This increases the difficulty in coordinating the planning and production process and can result in delay in the introduction of new technologies and products. The increase in the number of IP networks may adversely affect the demand for media gateway products. Media gateway products are primarily intended to transcode voice from traditional telephony networks to IP networks and vise versa. Along with the growth in the number of IP networks, there has been an increase in the amount of information that is sent directly from one IP network to another IP network. This direct network communication potentially obviates the need to use a media gateway or transcoding. A reduction in the demand for media gateways may adversely affect the demand for our media gateway products and, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. 8 New industry standards, the modification of our products to meet additional existing standards or the addition of features to our products may delay the introduction of our products or increase our costs. The industry standards that apply to our products are continually evolving. In addition, since our products are integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must comply with a number of industry standards and practices established by various international bodies and industry forums. Should new standards gain broad acceptance, we will be required to adopt those standards in our products. We may also decide to modify our products to meet additional existing standards or add features to our products. Standards may be adopted by various industry interest groups or may be proprietary and nonetheless accepted broadly in the industry. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. We may also have to pay additional fees to the developers of the technologies which constitute the newly adopted standards. Our OEM customers or potential customers may develop or prefer to develop their own technical solutions, and as a result, would not buy our products. Our products are sold also as components or building blocks to large OEMs and NEPs. These customers incorporate our products into their product offerings, usually in conjunction with value-added services of their own or of third parties. OEM or NEP customers or potential customers may prefer to develop their own technology or purchase third party technology. They could also manufacture their own components or building blocks that are similar to the ones we offer. Large customers have already committed significant resources in developing integrated product offerings. Customers may decide that this gives them better profitability and/or greater control over supplies, specifications and performance. Customers may therefore not buy components or products from an external manufacturer such as us. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products and our revenues. We have a limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 9 Generally, we sell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, network equipment providers or system integrator customers, as well as to distributors. As a result, we have less information with respect to the actual requirements of end users and their utilization of equipment. We also have less influence over the choice of equipment by these end users. We typically sell to OEM customers, network equipment providers, and system integrators, as well as to distributors. Our customers usually purchase equipment from several suppliers and may be trying to fulfill one of their customers’ specific technical specifications. We rely heavily on our customers for sales of our products and to inform us about market trends and the needs of their customers. We cannot be certain that this information is accurate. If the information we receive is not accurate, we may be manufacturing products that do not have a customer or fail to manufacture products that end users want. Because we are selling products to OEMs, system integrators and distributors rather than directly to end users, we have less control over the ultimate selection of products by end users. The markets we serve are highly competitive and many of our competitors have much greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our competitors currently sell products that provide similar benefits to those that we sell. There has been a significant amount of merger and acquisition activity and strategic alliances frequently involving major telecommunications equipment manufacturers acquiring smaller companies, and we expect that this will result in an increasing concentration of market share among these companies, many of whom are our customers. Our principal competitors in the sale of signal processing chips are Texas Instruments, Broadcom, Infineon, Centillium, Surf and Mindspeed. Several large manufacturers of generic signal processors, such as Motorola, Agere Systems, which merged with LSI Corporation in April 2007, and Intel have begun, or are expected to begin, marketing competing processors. Our principal competitors in the communications board market are NMS Communications, Intel, Motorola, Cantata Technology, Aculab and PIKA Technologies, Inc. Our principal competitors in the area of analog media gateways (2 to 24 ports) for access and enterprise are Cisco Systems Inc., Mediatrix Telecom, Inc., Vega Stream Limited, Samsung, Innovaphone AG, Net.com/Quintum Technologies, Tainet Communication System Corp., Welltech, Ascii Corp., D-Link Systems, Inc., Multitech Inc., Inomedia, OKI and LG. In addition we face competition in low, mid and high density gateways from internal development at companies such as Nortel, Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia-Siemens, Huawei, Ericsson, UTstarcom, ZTE and from Cisco Systems, Inc., Veraz Networks, Sonus Networks, General Bandwidth, Dialogic/Cantat Technologies and Commatch (Telrad). Our principal competitors in the media server market segment are Dialogic/Cantata Technology, NMS Communications, Convedia/Radisys, IP Unity Glenayre, Cognitronics and Aculab. In addition, we face competition in software-based and hardware-based media servers from internal development at companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Comverse-NetCentrex, Nortel, Alcatel - Lucent, Nokia – Siemens and Ericsson. 10 With respect to session border controllers, we compete against Acme Packets, Nextone/Nexpoint, Juniper and Sonus Networks. In the security gateway market, we compete against private companies such as GenBand, ACME Packets, Clavister and NEC. We also face significant and increasing competition in the market for products utilized in the VoIP market. Our competitors in the market for VolP products include telecommunications companies, data communication companies and companies specializing in voice over IP products, some of which have greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors have the ability to offer complete network solutions and vendor-sponsored financing programs to prospective customers. Some of our competitors with broad product portfolios may also be able to offer lower prices on products that compete with ours because of their ability to recoup a loss of margin through sales of other products or services. Additionally, voice, audio and other communications alternatives that compete with our products are being continually introduced. In the future, we may also develop and introduce other products with new or additional telecommunications capabilities or services. As a result, we may compete directly with our customers with respect to sales to telephone companies and other telecommunications infrastructure providers. Additional competitors may include companies that currently provide computer software products and services, such as telephone, media, publishing and cable television. The ability of some of our competitors to bundle other enhanced services or complete solutions with VoIP products could give these competitors an advantage over us. Offering to sell system level products that compete with the products manufactured by our customers could negatively affect our business. Our product offerings range from media gateway building blocks, such as chips and boards, to media gateways, media servers and session border control products (systems). These products could compete with products offered by our customers. These customers could decide to decrease purchases from us because of this competition. This could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Offering to sell directly to carriers or service providers may expose us to requirements for service which we may not be able to meet. We also sell our products directly to telecommunications carriers, service providers or other end-users. We have traditionally relied on third party distributors and OEMs to test and or sell our products and inform us about the requirements of end-users. We have limited experience selling our products directly to end-user customers. Telecommunications carriers and other service providers have great bargaining power in negotiating contracts. Generally, contracts with end-users tend to be more complex and impose more obligations on us than contracts with third party distributors. Contracts with end-users may also require extensive support teams in the country where the end-user is deploying its network. We may be unable to meet the requirements of these contracts. If we are unable to meet the conditions of a contract with an end-user customer, we may be subject to liquidated damages or liabilities that could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Selling directly to end-users may adversely affect our relationship with our current third party distributors upon whom we will continue to rely for a significant portion of our sales. Loss of third party distributors and OEMs, or a decreased commitment by them to sell our products as a result of direct sales by us, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party subcontractors to assemble our products and therefore do not directly control manufacturing costs, product delivery schedules or manufacturing quality. Our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. As a result of our reliance on third-party subcontractors, we cannot directly control product delivery schedules. We have in the past experienced delays in delivery schedules. Any problems that occur and persist in connection with the delivery, quality or cost of the assembly and testing of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This reliance could also lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, which, in turn, could lead to an increase in the costs of manufacturing or assembling our products. We may not be able to deliver our products to our customers, and substantial reengineering costs may be incurred if a small number of third-party suppliers do not provide us with key components on a timely basis. Texas Instruments Incorporated supplies all of the chips for our signal processor product line. Our signal processor line is used both as a product line in its own right and as a key component in our other product lines. Motorola manufactures all of the communications processors currently used on our communications boards. We have not entered into any long-term supply agreements or alternate source agreements with our suppliers and, while we maintain an inventory of critical components, our inventory of chips would likely not be sufficient in the event that we had to engage an alternate supplier for these components. Texas Instruments is also one of our major competitors in providing signal processing solutions. An unexpected termination of the supply of the chips provided by Texas Instruments or Motorola or disruption in their timely delivery, would require us to make a large investment in capital and manpower resources to shift to using signal processors manufactured by other companies and may cause a delay in introducing replacement products. Customers may not accept an alternative product design. Supporting old products or redesigning products may make it more difficult for us to support our products. 12 We utilize other sole source suppliers upon whom we depend without having long term supply agreements. Some of our sole source suppliers custom produce components for us based upon our specifications and designs while other of our sole source suppliers are the only manufacturers of certain components required by our products. We have not entered into any long-term supply agreements or alternative source agreements with our suppliers and while we maintain an inventory of components from single source providers, our inventory would likely not be sufficient in the event that we had to engage an alternate supplier of these single source components. In the event of any interruption in the supply of components from any of our sole source suppliers, we may have to expend significant time, effort and other resources in order to locate a suitable alternative manufacturer and secure replacement components. If no replacement components are available, we may be forced to redesign certain of our products. Any such new design may not be accepted by our customers. A prolonged disruption in supply may force us to redesign and retest our products. Any interruption in supply from any of these sources or an unexpected technical failure or termination of the manufacture of components could disrupt production, thereby adversely affecting our ability to deliver products and to support products previously sold to our customers. In addition, if demand for telecommunications equipment increases, we may face a shortage of components from our suppliers. This could result in longer lead times, increases in the price of components and a reduction in our margins, all of which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Our customers may require us to produce products or systems to hold in inventory in order to meet their “just in time”, or short lead time, delivery requirements. If we are unable to sell this inventory on a timely basis, we could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers expect us to maintain an inventory of products available for purchase off the shelf subsequent to the initial sales cycle for these products. This may require us to incur the costs of manufacturing inventory without having a purchase order for the products. The VoIP industry is subject to rapid technological change and volatile customer demands, which result in a short product commercial life before a product becomes obsolete. If we are unable to sell products that are produced to hold in inventory, we may incur write offs as a result of slow moving items, technological obsolescence, excess inventories, discontinued products and products with market prices lower than cost. Write offs could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We wrote-off inventory in a total amount of $1.9 million in 2006, $700,000 in 2007 and $1.2 million in 2008. The right of our customers to return products and their right to exchange products may affect our ability to recognize revenues which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Some of our customers expect us to permit them to return some or all of the products they purchased from us. If we contractually agree to allow a customer to return products, the customer may be entitled to a refund for the returned products or to receive a credit for the purchase of replacement products. If we agree to this type of contractual obligations, it could affect our ability to recognize revenues. In addition, if we are not able to resell any products that are returned and we would have to write off this inventory. This could adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our revenues. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. Prospective customers generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate our products and to integrate them into larger systems. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new communications equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers are approximately six to twelve months after a design win, depending on the type of customer and complexity of the product. This time may be further extended because of internal testing, field trials and requests for the addition or customization of features. This delays the time until we realize revenue and results in significant investment of resources in attempting to make sales. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales span, including customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and cancellation. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of customers’ procurement decisions. The time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months; larger implementations can take multiple calendar quarters. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our revenues. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our business may suffer if we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others. Enforcement of intellectual property rights may be expensive and may divert attention of management and of research and development personnel away from our business. Intellectual property litigation could also call into question the ownership or scope of rights owned by us. We believe that at least one of our patents may cover technology related to the ITU G.723.1 standard. Because of our involvement in the standard setting process, we may be required to license certain of our patents on a reasonable and non-discriminatory basis to a current or future competitor, to the extent required to carry out the G.723.1 standard. Additionally, our products may be manufactured, sold, or used in countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws or where we do not hold relevant intellectual property rights. 14 We believe that the frequency of third party intellectual claims is increasing, as patent holders, including entities that are not in our industry and that purchase patents as an investment or to monetize such rights by obtaining royalties, use infringement assertions as a competitive tactic and a source of additional revenue. Any intellectual property claims against us, even without merit, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and divert management’s attention away from our business. We may not be able to secure a license for technology that is used in our products and we may face injunctive proceedings that prevent distribution and sale of our products even prior to any dispute being concluded. These proceedings may also have a deterrent effect on purchases by customers, who may be unsure about our ability to continue to supply their requirements. We may be forced to repurchase our products and compensate customers that have purchased such infringing products. We may be forced to redesign the product so that it becomes non-infringing, which may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. In addition, claims alleging that the development, use, or sale of our products infringes third parties’ intellectual property rights may be directed either at us or at our direct or indirect customers. We may be required to indemnify such customers against claims made against them. We may be required to indemnify them even if we believe that the claim of infringement is without merit. Multiple patent holders in our industry may result in increased licensing costs. There are a number of companies besides us that hold patents for various aspects of the technology incorporated in our industry’s standards and our products. We expect that patent enforcement will be given high priority by companies seeking to gain competitive advantages or additional revenues. The holders of patents from which we have not obtained licenses may take the position that we are required to obtain a license from them. We cannot be certain that we would be able to negotiate a license agreement at an acceptable price or at all. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the payment of any additional licensing costs or if we are prevented from manufacturing or selling a product. Changes in governmental regulations in the United States or other countries could slow the growth of the VoIP telephony market and reduce the demand for our customers’ products, which, in turn, could reduce the demand for our products. VoIP and other services are not currently subject to all of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony. Nevertheless, it is possible that foreign or U.S. federal or state legislatures may seek to impose increased fees and administrative burdens on VoIP, data, and video providers. The FCC has already required VoIP service providers to meet various emergency service requirements relating to delivery of 911 calls, known as E911, and to accommodate law enforcement interception or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA. In addition, the FCC may seek to impose other traditional telephony requirements such as disability access requirements, consumer protection requirements, number assignment and portability requirements, and other obligations, including additional obligations regarding E911 and CALEA. The cost of complying with FCC regulations could increase the cost of providing Internet phone service which could result in slower growth and decreased profitability for this industry, which would adversely affect our business. 15 The enactment of any additional regulation or taxation of communications over the public Internet in the United States or elsewhere in the world could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ (and their customers’) businesses and could therefore adversely affect sales of our products. We do not know what effect, if any, possible legislation or regulatory actions in the United States or elsewhere in the world may have on private telecommunication networks, the provision of VoIP services and purchases of our products. Use of encryption technology in our products is regulated by governmental authorities and may require special development, export or import licenses. Delays in the issuance of required licenses, or the inability to secure these licenses, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Growth in the demand for security features may increase the use of encryption technology in our products. The use of encryption technology is generally regulated by governmental authorities and may require specific development, export or import licenses. Encryption standards may be based on proprietary technologies. We may be unable to incorporate encryption standards into our products in a manner that will insure interoperability. We also may be unable to secure licenses for proprietary technology on reasonable terms. If we cannot meet encryption standards, or secure required licenses for proprietary encryption technology, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to regulations that will require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials, and we may be subject to various regulations relating to management and disposal of waste with respect to electronic equipment. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Community directive, telecom equipment suppliers were required to stop using specified materials that are not “environmentally friendly” by July 1, 2006. In addition, telecom equipment suppliers that take advantage of an exemption with respect to the use of lead in solders are required by this directive to eliminate the lead in solders from their products by 2010. Some of our customers may also require products that meet higher standards than those required by the directive, such as complete removal of additional harmful substances from our products. We will be dependent on our suppliers for components and sub-system modules, such as semiconductors and purchased assemblies and goods, to comply with these requirements. This may harm our ability to sell our products in regions or to customers that may adopt such directives. Compliance with these directives, especially with respect to the requirement that products eliminate lead solders, will require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of our products. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to timely comply with these regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with these regulations could increase our product design costs. New designs may also require qualification testing with both customers and government certification boards. We cannot be certain of the reliability of any new designs that utilize non-lead components, in part, due to the lack of experience with the replacement materials and assembly technologies. In addition, the incorporation of new components may adversely affect equipment reliability and durability. 16 Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the management and disposal of waste with respect to electronic equipment. We could incur substantial costs, including fines and civil or criminal sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials that compose our products. The EU has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing their responsibilities under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufacturers of components that use lead solders may decide to stop manufacturing those components prior to the 2010 compliance date. These actions by manufacturers of components could result in a shortage of components that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues is generated outside of the U.S. and Israel. We intend to continue to expand our operations internationally and, as a result, our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We generated 35% of our revenues in 2006, 37% of our revenues in 2007 and 40% of our revenues in 2008, outside of the United States and Israel. Part of our strategy is to expand our penetration in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols or product requirements in different markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: ● economic and political instability in foreign countries; ● compliance with foreign laws and regulations; ● different technical standards or product requirements; ● staffing and managing foreign operations; ● foreign currency fluctuations; ● export control issues; ● governmental controls; 17 ● import or currency control restrictions; ● local taxation; ● increased risk of collection; and ● burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers. If we are unable to address these risks, our foreign operations may be unprofitable or the value of our investment in our foreign operations may decrease. Currently, our international sales are denominated primarily in dollars. Therefore, any devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the dollar could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. The prices of our products may become less competitive due to foreign exchange fluctuations. Although we have operations throughout the world, the majority of our revenues and our operating costs in 2008 were denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, approximately 38% of our operating costs in 2008 were incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). During 2007 and first half of 2008, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in an increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. As a result of this differential, from time to time we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars. If there is a significant increase in our expenses, we may be required to increase the prices of our products and may be less competitive. We cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to place orders denominated in dollars. Our sales to European customers denominated in Euros are increasing. Sales denominated in Euros could make our revenues subject to fluctuation in the Euro/dollar exchange rate. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Euro, we may be required to increase the prices of our products that are denominated in Euros. We may be unable to attract sales representatives who will market our products effectively. A significant portion of our marketing and sales involves the aid of independent sales representatives that are not under our direct control. We cannot be certain that our current independent sales representatives will continue to distribute our products or that, even if they continue to distribute our products, they will do so successfully. These representatives are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue marketing our products at any time. In addition, these representatives often market products of our competitors. Accordingly, we must compete for the attention and sales efforts of our independent sales representatives. 18 Our products could contain defects, which would reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, undetected errors or defects may be found in existing or new products. The introduction of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenues, additional costs, increased product returns and difficulty or delays in collecting accounts receivable. The risk is higher with products still in the development stage, where full testing or certification is not yet completed. This could result in, among other things, a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. We could also be subject to material claims by customers that are not covered by our insurance. Obtaining certification of our products by national regulators may be time-consuming and expensive. We may be unable to sell our products in markets in which we are unable to obtain certification. Our customers may expect us to obtain certificates of compliance with safety and technical standards set by national regulators, especially standards set by U.S. or European regulators. There is no uniform set of standards, and each national regulator may impose and change its own standards. National regulators may also prohibit us from importing products that do not conform to their standards. If we make any change in the design of a product, we are usually required to obtain recertification of the product. The process of certification may be time-consuming and expensive and may affect the length of the sales cycle for a product. If we are unable to obtain certification of a product in a market, we may be unable to sell the product in that market. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Because our products are complex and our market is evolving, the success of our business depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our management and key personnel. Specifically, we rely heavily on the services of Shabtai Adlersberg, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. If Shabtai Adlersberg is unable or unwilling to continue with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key person insurance for Mr. Adlersberg. The success of our business also depends upon our continuing ability to attract and retain other highly-qualified management, technical, sales and marketing personnel. We need highly-qualified technical personnel who are capable of developing technologies and products and providing the technical support required by our customers. We experience competitive pressure with respect to retaining and hiring employees in the high technology sector in Israel. If we fail to hire and retain skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. 19 If we do not manage our operations effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have actively expanded our operations in the past and may continue to expand them in the future. This expansion has required, and may continue to require, the application of managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we will continue to expand, or that we will be able to expand our operations successfully. In particular, our business requires us to focus on multiple markets, including the VoIP, wireline, cable and wireless markets. In addition, we work simultaneously with a number of large OEMs and network equipment providers each of which may have different requirements for the products that we sell to them. We may not have sufficient manpower, or may be unable to devote this manpower when needed, to address the requirements of these markets and customers. If we are unable to manage our operations effectively, our revenues may not increase, our cost of operations may rise and our results of operations may be adversely affected. As we grow we may need new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls. The transition to such systems, procedures or controls, as well as any delay in transitioning to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may seriously harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Our gross profit percentage could be negatively impacted by amortization expenses in connection with acquisitions, increased manufacturing costs and other factors. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Our gross profit percentage decreased in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The decrease in our gross profit percentage was primarily attributable to amortization expenses related to the acquisitions of Nuera and Netrake beginning in the third quarter of 2006 and CTI Squared beginning in the second quarter of 2007, as well as expenses related to equity-based compensation resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R) beginning in 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $86.1 million with respect to goodwill, intangible assets and investment in an affiliate. As a result of these impairment charges, non-cash amortization expense included in cost of revenues is expected to decline in 2009. Our gross profit percentage has also been negatively affected in the past and could continue to be negatively affected by an increase in manufacturing costs, a shift in our sales mix towards our less profitable products, increased customer demand for longer product warranties and increased cost pressures as a result of increased competition. Acquisitions of new businesses could also negatively affect our gross profit percentage, which could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 The growth in our product portfolio means that we have to service and support more products. This may result in an increase in our expenses and an adverse effect on our results of operations. The size of our product portfolio has increased and continues to increase. As a result, we are required to provide to our customers sales support. Customers have requested that we provide a contractual commitment to support a product for a specified period of time. This period of time may exceed the working life of the product or extend past the period of time that we may intend to manufacture or support a product. We are dependent on our suppliers for the components (hardware and software) needed to provide support and may be unable to secure the components necessary to satisfy our service commitments. We do not have long term contracts with our suppliers, and they may not be obligated to provide us with products or services for any specified period of time. We may need to purchase an inventory of replacement components and parts in advance in order to try to provide for their availability when needed. This could result in increased risk of write offs with respect to our replacement component inventory to the extent that we cannot accurately predict our future requirements under our customer service contracts. If any of our component suppliers cease production, cease operations or refuse or fail to make timely delivery of orders, we may not be able to meet our contractual commitments for product support. We may be required to supply enhanced components or parts as substitutes if the original versions are no longer available. Product support may be costly and any extra service revenues may not cover the hardware and software costs associated with providing long-term support. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time, and may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we comply with these requirements. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Terrorist attacks, or the threat of such attacks, may negatively impact the global economy which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and may cause our share price to decline. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following terrorist attacks throughout the world have led to a worsening of the global economy. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers have become much more cautious in setting their capital expenditure budgets, thereby restricting their telecommunications procurement. Uncertainties related to the threat of terrorism have had a negative effect on global economy, causing businesses to continue slowing spending on telecommunications products and services and further lengthen already long sales cycles. Any escalation of these threats or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 We are subject to risks from our financial investments. A continuing decline in interest rates and worsening of the credit crisis affecting capital markets could reduce our interest-income, decrease the value of financial assets held by us and adversely affect our profitability. Our investment portfolio consists of held-to-maturity marketable securities. Our investments are exposed to market risk due to fluctuation in interest rates, which may affect our interest income. In addition, our funds are deposited and invested with various financial institutions. The global economic crisis has led to the collapse of some major international financial institutions and the weakening of others. If the financial institutions with which we invest collapse, this may result in a loss of our deposits or investments and a resulting material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and the credit worthiness of the institutions issuing the securities. This could result in uncertain returns for these securities, which may fall below our projected return rates and could affect the fair market value of our investment portfolio. Due to the recent credit crisis and other market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades, the fair value of these marketable securities may decline on an other than temporary basis which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to taxation in several countries. Because we operate in several countries, mainly in the U.S., Israel, U.K. and Singapore, we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. We are required to report to and are subject to local tax authorities in the countries in which we operate. In addition, our income that is derived from sales to customers in one country might also be subject to taxation in other countries. We cannot be sure of the amount of tax we may become obligated to pay in the countries in which we operate. The tax authorities in the countries in which we operate may not agree with our tax position. Our tax benefits from carry forward losses and other tax planning benefits such as Israeli approved enterprise programs, may prove to be insufficient due to Israeli tax limitations, or may prove to be insufficient to offset tax liabilities from foreign tax authorities. Foreign tax authorities may also use our gross profit or our revenues in each territory as the basis for determining our income tax, and our operating expenses might not be considered for related tax calculations adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through the current period of time. This has led to ongoing hostilities between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. Recently, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as a military confrontation in December 2008 and January 2009 along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted in missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. There were also extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict may also lead to political instability between Israel and its neighboring countries. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring countries, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 22 We cannot predict the effect on us of an increase in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region. Additionally, some of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called for additional active duty under emergency circumstances, such as the recent military confrontation in the Gaza Strip. Some of our employees live within conflict area territories and may be forced to stay at home instead of reporting to work. We cannot predict the full impact of these conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances or an escalation in the political situation occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, or forced to stay at home, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, a number of countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel or Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. We are adversely affected by the devaluation of the dollar against the New Israeli Shekel and could be adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel. We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars and, in 2008, 38% of our expenses, primarily salaries, related personnel expenses and the leases of our buildings in Israel, were incurred in NIS. We anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. Our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. During 2007 and the first half of 2008, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. During the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, the NIS weakened against the U.S. dollar. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against the NIS, we could experience an increase in the cost of our operations, which are measured in U.S. dollars in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, in periods in which the U.S. dollar appreciates against the NIS, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of such devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar or that the timing of such devaluations were to lag considerably behind inflation, which will increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. The devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the NIS in 2007 and the first half of 2008 increased the cost in U.S. dollars of our expenses. As a result, our dollar-measured results of operations were adversely affected. This could happen again if the U.S. dollar were to devalue against the NIS. In order to manage the risks imposed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, from time to time, we enter into currency forward contracts and put and call options to hedge some of our foreign currency exposure. We can provide no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be effective. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar may cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. 23 Because exchange rates between the NIS and the U.S. dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations have an impact on our profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. In 2008, the value of the dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 1.1%, and the inflation rate in Israel was 3.8% and, as a result, adversely affected our results of operations in 2008. If this trend continues, it will continue to adversely affect our result of operations. The Israeli government programs in which we currently participate, and the tax benefits we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of exemptions and reductions resulting from the “approved enterprise” status of our existing production facilities and programs in Israel. In the past, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the Investment Center). To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these conditions, we will be subject to corporate tax at the rate then in effect under Israeli law for such tax year. In April 2005, an amendment to the law came into effect (the “Amendment”) which significantly changed the provisions of the law. The Amendment limited the scope of enterprises which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as a Privileged Enterprise, such as provisions generally requiring that at least 25% of the Privileged Enterprise’s income be derived from export. Additionally, the Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. The law provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval granted prior to December 31, 2004 remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. Therefore, our existing “Approved Enterprises” are generally not subject to the provisions of the Amendment. As a result of the Amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the law as amended, will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record a deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. None of our facilities are currently approved as an Approved Enterprise under the amended law. In 2008, we recognized a grant of $2,053,000 from the Government of Israel, through the Office of the Chief Scientist, or the OCS, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The OCS budget has been subject to reductions, which may affect the availability of funds for these prospective grants and other grants in the future. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will continue to receive grants at the same rate, or at all. In addition, the terms of any future OCS grants may be less favorable than our past grant. 24 The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties. In connection with research and development grants we received from the OCS, we must pay royalties to the OCS on the revenue derived from the sale of products, technologies and services developed with the grants from the OCS. The terms of the OCS grants and the law pursuant to which grants are made restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies developed outside of Israel if OCS grants funded the development of the products or technology. An amendment to the relevant law facilitates the transfer of technology or know-how developed with the funding of the OCS to third parties outside of Israel, but any future transfer would still require the approval of the OCS, which may not be granted, and is likely to involve a material payment to the OCS. This restriction may limit our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies without OCS approval. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In order to meet specified conditions in connection with the grants and programs of the OCS, we have made representations to the Government of Israel concerning our Israeli operations. From time to time the conduct of our Israeli operations has deviated from our representations. If we fail to meet the conditions related to the grants, including the maintenance of a material presence in Israel, or if there is any material deviation from the representations made by us to the Israeli government, we could be required to refund the grants previously received (together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor) and would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. Any inability to receive these grants would result in an increase in our research and development expenses. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors, assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any such persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Additionally, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. 25 Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as a staggered board and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock. Furthermore, Israel tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. Risks Relating to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares and our Notes The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Between January 1, 2007 and June 15, 2009, our share price has fluctuated from a high of $10.40 to a low of $0.92. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares: ● fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; ● shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts; ● announcements concerning us, our competitors or telephone companies; ● announcements of technological innovations; ● the introduction of new products; ● changes in product price policies involving us or our competitors; ● market conditions in the industry; ● integration of acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures with our products and operations; ● the conditions of the securities markets, particularly in the technology and Israeli sectors; and ● political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and worldwide. In addition, stock prices of many technology companies fluctuate significantly for reasons that may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating results. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. 26 Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and we expect these fluctuations to continue. Fluctuations in our results of operations may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our share price. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. In some periods, our operating results may be below public expectations or below revenue levels and operating results reached in prior quarters or in the corresponding quarters of the previous year. If this occurs, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The following factors have affected our quarterly results of operations in the past and are likely to affect our quarterly results of operations in the future: ● size, timing and pricing of orders, including order deferrals and delayed shipments; ● launching of new product generations; ● length of approval processes or market testing; ● technological changes in the telecommunications industry; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● the timing and approval of government research and development grants; ● accuracy of telecommunication company, distributor and original equipment manufacturer forecasts of their customers’ demands; ● changes in our operating expenses; ● disruption in our sources of supply; and ● general economic conditions. Therefore, the results of any past periods may not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors which are beyond our control and which might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. It is our policy that we will not provide quarterly forecasts of the results of our operations. This policy could affect the willingness of analysts to provide research with respect to our ordinary shares which could affect the trading market for our ordinary shares. It is our policy that we will not provide quarterly forecasts of the results of our operations. This could result in the reduction of research analysts who cover our ordinary shares. Any reduction in research coverage could affect the willingness of investors, particularly institutional investors, to invest in our shares which could affect the trading market for our ordinary shares and the price at which our ordinary shares are traded. 27 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain Nasdaq requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We do not intend to comply with the Nasdaq requirement that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans. Instead, we follow Israeli law and practice which permits the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans to be approved by our board of directors without the need for a shareholder vote, unless such arrangements are for the compensation of directors, in which case they also require audit committee and shareholder approval. We also post our Annual Report on Form 20-F on our web site (www. audiocodes.com) rather than distribute it to our shareholders pursuant to the relevant Nasdaq requirements. We may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, executive officer compensation, director nomination, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow Israeli law, instead of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under Nasdaq’s corporate governance rules. 28 Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, and on The Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Actual trading volume on the TASE is generally lower than trading volume on Nasdaq, and as such could be subject to higher volatility. The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. U.S. shareholders face certain income tax risks in connection with their acquisition, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares. In any tax year, we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. Based on the composition of our gross income and the composition and value of our gross assets during 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes during any of such tax years. It is likely, however, that we would be deemed to have been a PFIC in 2001, 2002 and 2003. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC for any future tax year in which, for example, the value of our assets, as measured by the public market valuation of our ordinary shares, declines in relation to the value of our passive assets (generally, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities). If we are a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. shareholders who own our ordinary shares during such year may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and reporting requirements for such year and succeeding years, even if we are no longer a PFIC in such succeeding years. We urge U.S. holders of our ordinary shares to carefully review Item 10E. – “Taxation – United States Tax Considerations – United States Federal Income Taxes” in this Annual Report and to consult their own tax advisors with respect to the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. 29 We may not have the ability to purchase our notes for cash if required to do so by holders on November 9, 2009, November 9, 2014 or November 9, 2019, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we repurchased approximately $51.5 million in principal amount of our senior convertible notes. As of June 15, 2009, approximately $73.5 million principal amount of our notes was outstanding. On November 9, 2009, November 9, 2014 or November 9, 2019, or upon specified fundamental changes relating to us, each holder of the outstanding notes may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holder’s notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to but excluding the date of purchase. In addition, in the case of certain fundamental changes occurring before November 9, 2009, we may be required to pay a make-whole premium to holders of outstanding notes. As the conversion price of the senior convertible notes is significantly higher than the market price of our ordinary shares and the notes are trading at a discount to their principal amount, it is likely that the holders of all or a significant portion of the outstanding notes will require that we repurchase the notes when they are able to do so in November 2009. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient financial resources to purchase these notes for cash, or will be able to raise the financing needed to purchase these notes if required to do so in November 2009 or at any other time as required by the terms of the notes. The trading prices of our notes could be significantly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares. We believe that the trading price of our notes could be significantly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares, which may be affected by a variety of factors as set forth in these risk factors. This relationship may result in greater volatility in the trading prices of our notes than would be expected for non-convertible debt securities. Our notes are effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness and structurally subordinated to existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. Our notes are general, unsecured obligations and are effectively subordinated to any existing and future secured indebtedness we may have. In addition, our notes are not guaranteed by our subsidiaries or any future subsidiaries and, accordingly, our notes are effectively subordinated to the existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. These liabilities may include indebtedness, trade payables, guarantees, lease obligations and letter of credit obligations. Therefore, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of the notes, to participate in the assets of any subsidiary upon that subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. However, even if we are a creditor of one of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in, or mortgages or other liens on, the assets of that subsidiary and would be subordinate to any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by us. As of June 15, 2009, our existing subsidiaries had no outstanding indebtedness (excluding intercompany debt and other liabilities). 30 There are no restrictive covenants in the indenture for the notes relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness or complete other transactions. The indenture governing our notes does not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends. The indenture does not restrict the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or our subsidiaries. The indenture contains no covenants or other provisions to afford holders of our notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, such as a leveraged recapitalization, that would increase the level of our indebtedness, or a change in control except for the ability of the holders to require us to redeem the notes under certain circumstances. The indenture governing our notes does not restrict us from incurring senior secured debt in the future or from guaranteeing our indebtedness, nor does it limit the amount of indebtedness that we can issue that is equal to our notes in right of payment. In 2008, we borrowed $30 million from Israeli banks and we may borrow additional amounts from financial institutions without violating the terms of the indenture. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations increased upon the issuance of our notes and loans, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. If we do not have sufficient available cash or are unable to generate cash or raise additional financing sufficient to meet our obligations under our notes and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: ● requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; ● increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; ● limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and ● placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Holders of our notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our ordinary shares, but they are subject to all changes made with respect to our ordinary shares. Holders of our notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our ordinary shares (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive dividends, if any, or other distributions on our ordinary shares), but such holders are subject to all changes affecting our ordinary shares. Holders of our notes are entitled to rights on the ordinary shares if and when we deliver ordinary shares to such holders in exchange for their notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our articles of association requiring shareholder approval and the record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery to a converting holder of our notes of our ordinary shares, such holders will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although that holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our ordinary shares. 31 Our ability to fulfill our obligations under our notes and loans is dependent upon our financial and operating performance. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our notes when due depends, in part, upon our financial performance and our ability to refinance this debt obligation or to raise additional equity or debt. We may be required to pay all or a portion of our notes in November 2009. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations or to repay the principal of our notes and/or loans, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as: ● reducing our operating expenses; ● reducing or delaying capital expenditures; ● selling assets; or ● raising additional debt or equity capital. We cannot be sure that any of these alternatives could be accomplished on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that those actions would provide sufficient funds to retire our notes and/or repay our loans. ITEM 