D. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent on the development of the VoP market to increase our sales. The market for Voice over Packet, or VoP, services is currently developing. We cannot be sure that the delivery of telephone and other communications services over packet networks rather than over traditional telephone networks will expand. We cannot be sure that packet based voice networks will become widespread or that connections between packet networks and telephone networks will become commonplace. The adaptation process of connecting packet networks and telephone networks can be time consuming and costly. In addition, limitations of VoP technology, such as the inability to make a call during a power outage and difficulty in accessing 911 services, could adversely affect the market for VoP services. Sales of our VoP products will depend on the development of packet networks and the commercialization of VoP services. If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to sell our products in significant volume. The slowdown in capital expenditures by telecommunications service providers in prior years had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Another down turn in technology spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A deterioration of economies around the world and economic uncertainty in the telecommunications market began in 2000 and continued through 2003. There was a curtailment of capital investment by telecommunications carriers and service providers as well as by businesses that use our products, referred to as the enterprise market. It also reduced our ability to forecast orders, also referred to as “low visibility”. We cannot be sure whether recent increased expenditures in the telecommunications industry in general or in the voice over packet portion of the market will continue. Since a substantial portion of our operating expenses consist of salaries, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues or may elect not to do so for business reasons. As a result of this downturn and our relatively stable operating expenses, we incurred a net loss of $13.3 million in 2001, $14.2 million in 2002 and $8.4 million in 2003. We will need to continue to generate increased revenues as well as manage our costs to maintain profitability. Any future industry downturn may increase our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products and prolong the time until we are paid, all of which would have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and on our cash flow from operations. -3- If new products we recently introduced or expect to introduce in the near future fail to generate the level of demand we originally anticipated, we will realize a lower than expected return from our investment in research and development with respect to those products, and our results of operations may suffer. Our success is dependent, in part, on the willingness of our customers to transition or migrate to new products, such as our expanded offering of Mediant systems, or expected future products. We are involved in a continuous process of evaluating changing market demands and customer requirements in order to develop and introduce new products, features and applications to meet changing demands and requirements. We need to be able to interpret market trends and the advancement of technology in order to successfully develop and introduce new products, features and applications. If potential customers defer transition or migration to new products, our return on our investment in research and development with respect to products recently introduced or expected to be introduced in the near future will be lower than we originally anticipated and our results of our operations may suffer. Our industry is rapidly evolving and we may not be able to keep pace with technological changes, which could adversely affect our business. The transmission of voice, data and fax over data networks is rapidly evolving. Short product life cycles place a premium on our ability to manage the transition from current products to new products. Our future success in generating revenues will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products and product features. These products and features must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. The development of new technologies and products is increasingly complex and uncertain. This increases the difficulty in coordinating the planning and production process and can result in delay in the introduction of new technologies and products. New industry standards, the modification of our products to meet additional existing standards or the addition of features to our products may delay the introduction of our products or increase our costs. The industry standards that apply to our products are continually evolving. In addition, since our products are integrated into networks consisting of elements manufactured by various companies, they must comply with a number of industry standards and practices established by various international bodies and industry forums. Should new standards gain broad acceptance, we will be required to adopt those standards in our products. We may also decide to modify our products to meet additional existing standards or add features to our products. Standards may be adopted by various industry interest groups or may be proprietary and nonetheless accepted broadly in the industry. It may take us a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards. We may also have to pay additional fees to the developers of the technologies which constitute the newly adopted standards. -4- Our customers or potential customers may develop or prefer to develop their own technical solutions, and as a result, would not buy our products. Our products are primarily sold as components or building blocks to large original equipment manufacturers, or OEM’s, or network equipment providers. Our customers incorporate our products into their product offerings, usually in conjunction with value-added services of their own or of third parties. Customers or potential customers may prefer to develop their own technology or purchase third party technology. They could also manufacture their own components or building blocks that are similar to the ones we offer. Large customers have already committed significant resources in developing integrated product offerings. Customers may decide that this gives them greater control over supplies, specifications and performance. Customers may therefore not buy components from an external manufacturer such as us. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell our products and our revenues. We have depended on a small number of large customers. The loss of one of these customers or the reduction in purchases by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has been derived from large purchases by a small number of OEMs and network equipment providers, systems integrators and distributors. For example, our top three customers accounted for approximately 24.8% of our revenues in 2005, 29.0% of our revenues in 2004 and 26.9% of our revenues in 2003. Sales to Nortel Networks accounted for 16.3% of our revenues in 2005 compared to 18.6% of our revenues in 2004 and 14.3% of our revenues in 2003. We do not enter into sales agreements in which the customer is obligated to purchase a set quantity of our products. Based on our experience, we expect that our customer base may change from period to period. If we lose a large customer and fail to add new customers there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and we expect these fluctuations to continue. Fluctuations in our results of operations may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our share price. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. In some periods, our operating results may be below public expectations. If this occurs, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The following factors have affected our quarterly results of operations in the past and are likely to affect our quarterly results of operations in the future: — size, timing and pricing of orders, including order deferrals and delayed shipments; — launching of new product generations; — length of approval processes or market testing; — technological changes in the telecommunications industry; -5- — competitive pricing pressures; — the timing and approval of government research and development grants; — accuracy of telephone company, distributor and original equipment manufacturer forecasts of their customers’ demands; — changes in our operating expenses; — disruption in our sources of supply; and — general economic conditions. Therefore, the results of any past periods may not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We have a limited order backlog. If revenue levels for any quarter fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent on orders received and delivered in that quarter. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from one customer, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. We base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends, and our expense levels are relatively fixed, or require some time for adjustment. Because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Generally, we sell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, network equipment providers or system integrator customers, as well as to distributors. As a result, we have less information with respect to the actual requirements of end users and their utilization of equipment. We also have less influence over the choice of equipment by these end users. We typically sell to OEM customers, network equipment providers, and system integrators, as well as to distributors. Our customers usually purchase equipment from several suppliers and may be trying to fulfill one of their customers’ specific technical specifications. We rely heavily on our customers for sales of our products and to inform us about market trends and the needs of their customers. We cannot be certain that this information is accurate. If the information we receive is not accurate, we may be manufacturing products that do not have a customer or fail to manufacture products that end users want. Because we are selling products to OEMs, system integrators and distributors rather than directly to end users, we have less control over the ultimate selection of products by end users. The markets we serve are highly competitive and many of our competitors have much greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect competition to increase in the future. Our competitors currently sell products that provide similar benefits to those that we sell. There has been a significant amount of merger and acquisition activity and strategic alliances frequently involving major telecommunications equipment manufacturers acquiring smaller companies, and we expect that this will result in an increasing concentration of market share among these companies, many of whom are our customers. -6- Our principal competitors in the sale of signal processing chips are Texas Instruments, Broadcom, Infineon, Centillium and Mindspeed. Several large manufacturers of generic signal processors, such as Motorola, Agere Systems and Intel have begun, or are expected to begin marketing competing processors. Our principal competitors in the communications board market are NMS Communications, Intel, Motorola, Cantata Technology, Acculab and PIKA Technologies, Inc. Our principal competitors in the area of analog media gateways (2 to 24 ports) for access and enterprise are Cisco Systems Inc., Mediatrix Telecom, Inc., Vega Stream Limited, Samsung, Innovaphone AG, Quintum Technologies, Tainet Communication System Corp., Welltech, Ascii Corp., D-Link Systems, Inc., Multitech Inc., Inomedia, OKI and LG,. In addition we face competition in low, mid and high density gateways from internal development at companies such as Nortel, Lucent, Alcatel, Siemens, Huawei, Ericsson, UTstarcom, ZTE and from Cisco Systems, Veraz Networks, Sonus Networks, Tekelec, General Bandwidth, Telica and Commatch. Our principal competitors in the media server market segment are Cantata Technology, NMS Communications, Convedia, IP Unity, Cognitronics and Aculab. In addition, we face competition in software-based and hardware-based media servers from internal development at companies such as Nortel, Lucent, Siemens, Motorola, Tekelec and Sonus Networks. We also face significant and increasing competition in the market for products utilized in the VoIP market. Our competitors in the market for VolP products include telecommunications companies, data communication companies and companies specializing in voice over IP products, some of which have greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors have the ability to offer vendor-sponsored financing programs to prospective customers. Some of our competitors with broad product portfolios may also be able to offer lower prices on products that compete with ours because of their ability to recoup a loss of margin through sales of other products or services. Additionally, voice, audio and other communications alternatives that compete with our products are being continually introduced. In the future, we may also develop and introduce other products with new or additional telecommunications capabilities or services. As a result, we may compete directly with telephone companies and other telecommunications infrastructure providers. Additional competitors may include companies that currently provide computer software products and services, such as telephone, media, publishing and cable television. The ability of some of ours competitors to bundle other enhanced services or complete solutions with VoIP products could give these competitors an advantage over us. -7- Offering to sell system level products that compete with the products manufactured by our customers could negatively affect our business. We have broadened our product offerings from chips to boards, subsystems and gateway level products (systems). These products could compete with products offered by our customers. These customers could decide to decrease purchases from us because of this competition. This could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Offering to sell directly to carriers or system operators may expose us to requirements for service which we may not be able to meet. We also sell our products directly to telecommunications carriers, service providers or other end-users. We have traditionally relied on third party distributors and OEMs to test and or sell our products and inform us about the requirements of end-users. We have limited experience selling our products directly to end-user customers. Telecommunications carriers and other service providers have great bargaining power in negotiating contracts. Generally, contracts with end-users tend to be more complex and impose more obligations on us than contracts with third party distributors. Contracts with end-users may also require extensive support teams in the country where the end-user is deploying its network. We may be unable to meet the requirements of these contracts. If we are unable to meet the conditions of a contract with an end-user customer, we may be subject to liquidated damages or liabilities that could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Selling directly to end-users may adversely affect our relationship with our current third party distributors upon whom we will continue to rely for a significant portion of our sales. Loss of third party distributors and OEMs, or a decreased commitment by them to sell our products as a result of direct sales by us, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party subcontractors to assemble our products and therefore do not directly control manufacturing costs, product delivery schedules or manufacturing quality. Our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. As a result of our reliance on third-party subcontractors, we cannot directly control product delivery schedules. We have in the past experienced delays in delivery schedules. Any problems that occur and persist in connection with the delivery, quality or cost of the assembly and testing of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This reliance could also lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, which, in turn, could lead to an increase in the costs of manufacturing or assembling our products. We may not be able to deliver our products to our customers, and substantial reengineering costs may be incurred if a small number of third-party suppliers do not provide us with key components on a timely basis. Texas Instruments Incorporated supplies all of the chips for our signal processor product line. Our signal processor line is used both as a product line in its own right and as a key component in our other product lines. Motorola manufactures all of the communications processors currently used on our communications boards. These suppliers also supply many of our competitors. -8- We have not entered into any long-term supply agreements or alternate source agreements with our suppliers and, while we maintain an inventory of critical components, our inventory of chips would likely not be sufficient in the event that we had to engage an alternate supplier for these components. Texas Instruments is also one of our major competitors in providing signal processing solutions. An unexpected termination of the supply of the chips provided by Texas Instruments or Motorola or disruption in their timely delivery, would require us to make a large investment in capital and manpower resources to shift to using signal processors manufactured by other companies and may cause a delay in introducing replacement products. Customers may not accept an alternative product design. Supporting old products or redesigning products may make it more difficult for us to support our products. We utilize other sole source suppliers upon whom we depend without having long term supply agreements. Some of our sole source suppliers custom produce components for us based upon our specifications and designs while other of our sole source suppliers are the only manufacturers of certain components required by our products. We have not entered into any long-term supply agreements or alternative source agreements with our suppliers and while we maintain an inventory of components from single source providers, our inventory would likely not be sufficient in the event that we had to engage an alternate supplier of these single source components. In the event of any interruption in the supply of components from any of our sole source suppliers, we may have to expend significant time, effort and other resources in order to locate a suitable alternative manufacturer and secure replacement components. If no replacement components are available, we may be forced to redesign certain of our products. Any such new design may not be accepted by our customers. A prolonged disruption in supply may force us to redesign and retest our products. Any interruption in supply from any of these sources or an unexpected technical failure or termination of the manufacture of components could disrupt production, thereby adversely affecting our ability to deliver products and to support products previously sold to our customers. In addition, if demand for telecommunications equipment increases, we may face a shortage of components from our suppliers. This could result in longer lead times, increases in the price of components and a reduction in our margins, all of which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Our customers may require us to produce products or systems to hold in inventory in order to meet their “just in time”, or short lead time, delivery requirements. If we are unable to sell this inventory on a timely basis, we could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers expect us to maintain an inventory of products available for purchase off the shelf subsequent to the initial sales cycle for these products. This may require us to incur the costs of manufacturing inventory without having a purchase order for the products. The VoP industry is subject to rapid technological change and volatile customer demands, which result in a short product commercial life before a product becomes obsolete. If we are unable to sell products that are produced to hold in inventory, we may incur write offs and write downs as a result of slow moving items, technological obsolescence, excess inventories, discontinued products and products with market prices lower than cost. Write offs and write downs could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We wrote off and wrote down inventory in the amount of $835,000 in 2003, $1.2 million in 2004 and $1.2 million in 2005. -9- We are also facing pressure to deliver through customer hubs and to deliver locally from warehouses in the U.S. Some of our U.S. customers have requested us to maintain an inventory of products in the U.S. Some of these products held in inventory may be produced only for a specific customer. Maintaining additional inventory in the U.S. requires us to incur additional manufacturing costs and increases the risk that we will incur inventory write offs. Holding in inventory products manufactured for a specific customer results in additional warehouse and carrying costs and could result in additional write-offs if that customer does not purchase inventory manufactured specifically for it. If we are unable to sell inventory held in the U.S. that was not manufactured for a specific customer, we may need to incur additional shipping costs in order to sell the inventory in another country. Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our revenues. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. Prospective customers generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate our products and to integrate them into larger systems. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new communications equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers are approximately six to twelve months after a design win, depending on the type of customer and complexity of the product. This time may be further extended because of internal testing, field trials and requests for the addition or customization of features. This delays the time until we realize revenue and results in our investing significant resources in attempting to make sales. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales span, including customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and cancellation. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of customers’ procurement decisions. The time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months; larger implementations can take multiple calendar quarters. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our revenues. -10- Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our business may suffer if we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others. Enforcement of intellectual property rights may be expensive and may divert attention of management and of research and development personnel away from our business. Intellectual property litigation could also call into question the ownership or scope of rights owned by us. We believe that at least one of our patents may cover technology related to the ITU G.723.1 standard. Because of our involvement in the standard setting process, we may be required to license certain of our patents on a reasonable and non-discriminatory basis to a current or future competitor, to the extent required to carry out the G.723.1 standard. Additionally, our products may be manufactured, sold, or used in countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws or where we do not hold relevant intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims against us, even without merit, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and divert management’s attention away from our business. We may not be able to secure a license for technology that is used in our products and we may face injunctive proceedings that prevent distribution and sale of our products even prior to any dispute being concluded. These proceedings may also have a deterrent effect on purchases by customers, who may be unsure about our ability to continue to supply their requirements. We may be forced to repurchase our products and compensate customers that have purchased such infringing products. We may be forced to redesign the product so that it becomes non-infringing, which may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. Multiple patent holders in our industry may result in increased licensing costs. There are a number of companies besides us that hold patents for various aspects of the technology incorporated in our industry’s standards and our products. We expect that patent enforcement will be given high priority by companies seeking to gain competitive advantages or additional revenues. The holders of patents from which we have not obtained licenses may take the position that we are required to obtain a license from them. We cannot be certain that we would be able to negotiate a license agreement at an acceptable price or at all. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the payment of any additional licensing costs or if we are prevented from manufacturing or selling a product. -11- Changes in governmental regulations in the United States or other countries could slow the growth of the VoIP telephony market and reduce the demand for our customers’ products, which, in turn, could reduce the demand for our products. In the United States, changes in governmental regulation are being considered that may negatively impact the VoIP telephony market. For example, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has to date treated providers of telephone services over the public Internet as “enhanced service providers”. Enhanced service providers are currently exempt from federal and state regulations governing common carriers, including the obligation to pay access charges. The FCC is examining the enactment of new regulations governing Internet telephony and the question of whether certain forms of telephone services over the Internet should be subject to the same FCC regulations as telecommunications services. VoIP equipment can be used as a way to provide telecommunication services while bypassing the local service operator, in what is sometime referred to as “toll bypass”. Telecommunications traffic is diverted from traditional telephone lines to the public Internet, thus avoiding long distance call charges. As the use of VoIP to provide telecommunication services increases, phone companies are seeking the adoption of regulations that would require providers or users of such diverted calls to pay a charge to local service providers. On March 10, 2004, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making that seeks to establish a regulatory framework for Internet Protocol-Enabled Services, including VoIP services. The Notice of Proposed Rule Making seeks comments on how various IP-enabled services, including VoIP, should be differentiated for regulatory purposes, and whether there are technical or other characteristics of particular VoIP services that warrant differential regulatory treatment. When the FCC enacts new regulations governing VoIP, or if it determines that certain telephony providers over the public Internet, or the services they provide, are subject to current FCC regulations governing common carriers, then some of the service providers that buy equipment from our customers may be forced to pay access charges and make universal service contributions, or may be subject to other taxes, fees or restrictions under any such new regulations. The required payment of additional taxes, fees or charges for VoIP services may impact the profitability of these services and the use of VoIP services or technology. On May 19, 2005, the FCC issued an order that requires interconnected VoIP service providers to be able to deliver all 911 calls to the customer’s local emergency operator. Interconnected providers are those companies that enable VoIP customers to receive calls from and make calls to the traditional public switched telephone network. The FCC also indicated that it would adopt rules in the future that would require a method for determining the location of a VoIP customer making a 911 call without the customer having to report this information. VoIP service providers may have difficulties complying with this order in the required time frame, as well as any future orders issued by the FCC. Equipment and software manufacturers may have difficulty in complying with new technical requirements. On May 3, 2006, the FCC issued an order that requires interconnected VoIP service providers to be prepared to accommodate law enforcement wiretaps. The FCC found that VoIP services are covered by the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or “CALEA”, which requires the FCC to preserve the ability of law enforcement agencies to conduct court-ordered wiretaps in the face of technological change. The FCC established a deadline of May 14, 2007 by which covered VoIP service providers must be in full compliance with all relevant CALEA requirements. VoIP service providers may have difficulties complying with this order in the required time frame, as well as any future orders issued by the FCC. Equipment and software manufacturers may have difficulty in complying with new technical requirements. -12- On June 21, 2006, the FCC adopted a rule that requires VoIP service providers to help subsidize services in rural and low-income areas. The FCC rule requires contribution of 10.5% of a VoIP service provider’s long-distance revenue to the universal service fund if such long-distance calls pass through traditional phone networks. The cost of providing Internet phone service could increase as a result of these actions by the FCC which could result in slower growth and decreased profitability for this industry. The increase in regulation of VoIP services and the increase in the cost of these services could adversely affect sales of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. The enactment of any additional regulation or taxation of communications over the public Internet in the United States or elsewhere in the world could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ (and their customers’) businesses and could therefore adversely affect sales of our products. We do not know what effect, if any, possible legislation or regulatory actions in the United States or elsewhere in the world may have on private telecommunication networks, the provision of VoIP services and purchases of our products. Use of encryption technology in our products is regulated by governmental authorities and may require special development, export or import licenses. Delays in the issuance of required licenses, or the inability to secure these licenses, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Growth in the demand for security features may increase the use of encryption technology in our products. The use of encryption technology is generally regulated by governmental authorities and may require specific development, export or import licenses. Encryption standards may be based on proprietary technologies. We may be unable to incorporate encryption standards into our products in a manner that will insure interoperability. We also may be unable to secure licenses for proprietary technology on reasonable terms. If we cannot meet encryption standards, or secure required licenses for proprietary encryption technology, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. -13- We are subject to new regulations that will require us to use components based on environmentally friendly materials. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We are affected by new telecommunications industry regulations requiring the use of environmentally-friendly materials in telecommunications equipment. For example, pursuant to a European Community directive, telecom equipment suppliers are required to stop using specified materials that are not “environmentally friendly” by July 1, 2006. In addition, telecom equipment suppliers are required under this directive to eliminate the lead solders from their products by 2010. Some of our customers may also require products that meet higher standards than those required by the directive, such as complete removal of lead from all components. We will be dependent on our suppliers for components and sub-system modules, such as semiconductors and printed circuit boards, to comply with these requirements. Some of our products may not comply with this directive in 2006. We will attempt to comply with this directive in 2007. This may harm our ability to sell our products in the European Union and in any other countries that may adopt this directive. Compliance with this directive, especially with respect to the requirement that products eliminate lead solders, will require us to undertake significant expenses with respect to the re-design of our products. In addition, we may be required to pay higher prices for components that comply with this directive. We may not be able to pass these higher component costs on to our customers. We cannot at this point estimate the expense that will be required to redesign our products in order to include “environmentally friendly” components. We cannot be sure that we will be able to timely comply with these regulations, that we will be able to comply on a cost effective basis or that a sufficient supply of compliant components will be available to us. Compliance with these regulations could increase our product design costs. New designs may also require qualification testing with both customers and government certification boards. We cannot be certain of the reliability of any new designs that utilize non-lead components. In addition, the incorporation of new components may adversely affect equipment reliability and durability. Our inability or failure to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufacturers of components that we use in our products that do not comply with these regulations may decide to stop manufacturing these components prior to the July 2006 compliance date. Similarly, manufacturers of components that use lead solders may decide to stop manufacturing those components prior to the 2010 compliance date. These actions by manufacturers of components could result in a shortage of components that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues is generated outside of the U.S. and Israel. We intend to continue to expand our operations internationally and, as a result, our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We generated 28% of our revenues in 2004 and 32% of our revenues in 2005 outside of the United States and Israel. Part of our strategy is to expand our penetration in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols or product requirements in different markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: -14- — economic and political instability in foreign countries; — staffing and managing foreign operations; — increased risk of collection; and — burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers. If we are unable to address these risks, our foreign operations may be unprofitable or the value of our investment in our foreign operations may decrease. Currently, our international sales are denominated primarily in dollars.Therefore, any devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the dollar could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. The prices of our products may become less competitive due to foreign exchange fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our prices in all countries are denominated primarily in dollars. If there is a significant devaluation in a specific country, the prices of our products will increase relative to the local currency and may be less competitive. We cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to place orders denominated in dollars. The use of the Euro has placed pressure on us to sell to European customers in Euro rather than dollar prices. Sales denominated in Euros could make our revenues subject to fluctuation in the Euro/dollar exchange rate. We may be unable to attract sales representatives who will market our products effectively. A significant portion of our marketing and sales involves the aid of independent sales representatives that are not under our direct control. We cannot be certain that our current independent sales representatives will continue to distribute our products or that, even if they continue to distribute our products, they will do so successfully. These representatives are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue marketing our products at any time. In addition, these representatives often market products of our competitors. Accordingly, we must compete for the attention and sales efforts of our independent sales representatives. Our products could contain defects, which would reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, undetected errors or defects may be found in existing or new products. The introduction of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenues, additional costs, increased product returns and difficulty or delays in collecting accounts receivable. The risk is higher with products still in the development stage, where full testing or certification is not yet completed. This could result in, among other things, a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. We could also be subject to material claims by customers that are not covered by our insurance. -15- Obtaining certification of our products by national regulators may be time-consuming and expensive. We may be unable to sell our products in markets in which we are unable to obtain certification. Our customers may expect us to obtain certificates of compliance with safety and technical standards set by national regulators, especially standards set by U.S. or European regulators. There is no uniform set of standards, and each national regulator may impose and change its own standards. National regulators may also prohibit us from importing products that do not conform to their standards. If we make any change in the design of a product, we are usually required to obtain recertification of the product. The process of certification may be time-consuming and expensive and may affect the length of the sales cycle for a product. If we are unable to obtain certification of a product in a market, we may be unable to sell the product in that market. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Because our products are complex and our market is evolving, the success of our business depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our management and key personnel. Specifically, we rely heavily on the services of Shabtai Adlersberg, our Chief Executive Officer. If Shabtai Adlersberg is unable or unwilling to continue with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key person insurance for Mr. Adlersberg. The success of our business also depends upon our continuing ability to attract and retain other highly-qualified management, technical, sales and marketing personnel. We need highly-qualified technical personnel who are capable of developing technologies and products and providing the technical support required by our customers. We are experiencing increasing competitive pressure with respect to retaining and hiring employees in the high technology sector in Israel, because technology-related businesses have resumed recruitment efforts after the reduction in demand for these types of employees following the slowdown in technology-related fields that began in 2001. If we fail to hire and retain skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our strategy is to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and technologies or to establish joint ventures to expand our business. For example, in 2005 we invested in MailVision Ltd. and CTI Squared Ltd, and increased our investment in Natural Speech Communication. In April 2003, we purchased a product group from Nortel Networks and in May 2004 we purchased Ai-Logix Inc., now known as AudioCodes USA Inc. We have recognized losses from the investment in Natural Speech Communication in our results of operations in each of the past three years. -16- On May 16, 2006, we entered into an agreement to acquire Nuera Communications Inc., or Nuera, for $85 million in cash, subject to reduction for certain expenses, plus an earn out arrangement under which we have agreed to pay up to an additional $5 million if Nuera achieves certain revenue milestones during the first 12 months following consummation of the transaction. Nuera provides Voice over Internet Protocal (VoIP) infrastructure solutions for broadband and long distance networks. This transaction is significantly larger than our other acquisitions and investments to date. If all of the conditions to the transaction are satisfied and it is completed, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in integrating Nuera’s products, employees and operations into our organization or that we will be able to operate Nuera’s business in a profitable manner. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. As Nuera is significantly larger than any other acquisition we have made, there is likely to be a greater diversion of management’s time and resources in connection with the consummation of this transaction and subsequent integration and operation of Nuera’s business. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition, investment or joint venture and we may incur future losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. In addition, acquisitions could result in: — substantial cash expenditures; — potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; — the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; — a decrease in our profit margins; — amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill; and — write-offs of in-process research and development. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. If we do not manage our anticipated growth effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have actively expanded our operations in the past and may continue to expand them in the future. This expansion has required, and may continue to require, the application of managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we will continue to expand, or that we will be able to expand our operations successfully. In particular, our business requires us to focus on multiple markets, including the VoIP, cable and wireless markets. In addition, we work simultaneously with a number of large OEMs and network equipment providers each of which may have different requirements for the products that we sell to them. We may not have sufficient manpower, or may be unable to devote this manpower when needed, to address the requirements of these markets and customers. If we are unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, our revenues may not increase, our cost of operations may rise and our results of operations may be adversely affected. -17- As we grow we may need new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls. The transition to such systems, procedures or controls, as well as any delay in transitioning to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may seriously harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We may not be able to raise additional financing for our future capital needs on favorable terms, or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and to continue our longer term expansion plans. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our longer term expansion plans. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. This could inhibit our growth and increase our financing costs. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our products. We could incur charges in our statement of operations if we are unable to collect these accounts receivable. A portion of our receivables result from credit extended to customers for purchases of our products. We cannot be sure that we will be able to collect all of these accounts receivable. The failure to collect accounts receivable could adversely affect our cash flow position and results of operations. Our gross profit percentage could be negatively impacted by increased manufacturing costs and other factors. This could adversely affect our results of operations. Our gross profit percentage has increased in each of the past three years. However, our gross profit percentage is still lower than in 2000. The recent increase in our gross profit percentage could be negatively affected by an increase in manufacturing costs, a shift in our sales mix towards our less profitable products, increased customer demand for longer product warranties and increased cost pressures as a result of increased competition. Acquisitions of new businesses could also negatively affect our gross profit percentage, which could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations. -18- The growth in our product portfolio means that we have to service and support more products. This may result in an increase in our expenses and an adverse effect on our results of operations. The size of our product portfolio has increased and continues to increase. As a result, we are required to provide to our customers sales support and maintenance. Customers have requested that we provide a contractual commitment to support a product for a specified period of time. This period of time may exceed the working life of the product or extend past the period of time that we may intend to manufacture or support a product. We are dependent on our suppliers for the components (hardware and software) needed to provide support and may be unable to secure the components necessary to satisfy our service commitments. We do not have long term contracts with our suppliers, and they may not be obligated to provide us with products or services for any specified period of time. We may need to purchase an inventory of replacement components and parts in advance in order to try to provide for their availability when needed. This could result in increased risk of write offs with respect to our replacement component inventory to the extent that we cannot accurately predict our future requirements under our customer service contracts. If any of our component suppliers cease production, cease operations or refuse or fail to make timely delivery of orders, we may not be able to meet our contractual commitments for product support or maintenance. We may be required to supply upgraded components or parts as substitutes if the original versions are no longer available. Product support may be costly and any extra service revenues may not cover the hardware and software costs associated with providing long-term support or maintenance. We have not yet evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than the end of our 2006 fiscal year. We are in the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as higher independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Terrorist attacks against Israel have greatly intensified since September 2000, which have led to ongoing hostilities between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The future of relations between the Palestinian Authority and Israel is uncertain. In January 2006, Hamas, an Islamic movement responsible for many attacks against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates is expected to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to the stability in the Middle East as a whole. -19- We cannot predict the effect on us of an increase in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region. Some of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called for additional active duty under emergency circumstances. We cannot predict the full impact of these conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances or an escalation in the political situation occur. If many of our employees are called for active duty, our operations in Israel and our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, a number of countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel or Israeli companies, which may limit our ability to make sales in those countries. The Israeli rate of inflation may negatively impact our costs if it exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. A substantial portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel and facility-related, is incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). In 2005, approximately 35% of our costs were incurred in NIS. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel in relation to the dollar or that the timing of such devaluations were to lag considerably behind inflation, which will increase our costs as expressed in dollars. To protect against the changes in value of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from payments in NIS, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted expenses denominated in foreign currencies with forward contracts. These measures may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel. The Israeli government programs and tax benefits that we currently participate in, or receive, require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of exemptions and reductions resulting from the “approved enterprise” status of our existing production facilities and programs in Israel. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the Investment Center). To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these conditions, we will be subject to corporate tax at the rate then in effect under Israeli law for such tax year. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the law came into effect (“the Amendment”) which has significantly changed the provisions of the law. The Amendment limits the scope of enterprises which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as a Beneficiary Enterprise, such as provisions generally requiring that at least 25% of the Beneficiary Enterprise’s income will be derived from export. Additionally, the Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. -20- In addition, the law provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval already granted will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. Therefore, our existing “Approved Enterprises” will generally not be subject to the provisions of the Amendment. As a result of the Amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the law as amended, will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record a deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. In 2005, we recognized a grant of $417,000 from the Government of Israel, through the Office of the Chief Scientist, or the OCS, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The OCS budget has been subject to reductions, which may affect the availability of funds for these prospective grants and other grants in the future. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will continue to receive grants at the same rate, or at all. In addition, the terms of any future OCS grants may be less favorable than our past grant. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties. In connection with research and development grants received from the OCS, we must pay royalties to the OCS on the revenue derived from the sale of products, technologies and services developed with the grants from the OCS. The terms of the OCS grants and the law pursuant to which grants are made restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies developed outside of Israel if OCS grants funded the development of the products or technology. A recent amendment to the relevant law may facilitate the transfer of technology or know-how developed with the funding of the OCS to third parties outside of Israel, but any future transfer would still require the approval of the OCS, which may not be granted, and is likely to involve a material payment to the OCS. This restriction may limit our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies without OCS approval. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In order to meet specified conditions in connection with the grants and programs of the OCS, we have made representations to the Government of Israel about our Israeli operations. From time to time the conduct of our Israeli operations has deviated from our representations. If we fail to meet the conditions related to the grants, including the maintenance of a material presence in Israel, or if there is any material deviation from the representations made by us to the Israeli government, we could be required to refund the grants previously received (together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor) and would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. The inability to receive these grants would result in an increase in our research and development expenses. -21- It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of our assets functional currency and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any such persons. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Additionally, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. In addition, our articles of association contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire us, such as a staggered board and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock. Furthermore, Israel tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Description of Share Capital--Possible Anti-Takeover Effects.” Risks Relating to our Ordinary Shares and our Notes The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. Between January 1, 2004 and June 16, 2006, our share price has fluctuated from a low of $8.48 to a high of $17.00 The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares: — fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; — shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts; — announcements concerning us, our competitors or telephone companies; -22- — announcements of technological innovations; — the introduction of new products; — changes in product price policies involving us or our competitors; — market conditions in the industry; — the conditions of the securities markets, particularly in the technology and Israeli sectors; and — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and worldwide. In addition, stock prices of many technology companies fluctuate significantly for reasons that may be unrelated or disproportionate to operating results. The factors discussed above may depress or cause volatility of our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. The trading prices of our notes could be significantly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares. We believe that the trading price of our notes is significantly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares, which may be affected by a variety of factors as set forth in the immediately preceding risk factor. This relationship may result in greater volatility in the trading prices of our notes than would be expected for non-convertible debt securities. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, and on The Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Actual trading volume on the TASE is generally lower than trading volume on Nasdaq, and as such could be subject to higher volatility. The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. -23- Our notes are effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness and structurally subordinated to existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. Our notes are general, unsecured obligations and are effectively subordinated to any existing and future secured indebtedness we may have. In addition, our notes are not guaranteed by our subsidiaries or any future subsidiaries and, accordingly, our notes are effectively subordinated to the existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. These liabilities may include indebtedness, trade payables, guarantees, lease obligations and letter of credit obligations. Therefore, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of the notes, to participate in the assets of any subsidiary upon that subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. However, even if we are a creditor of one of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in, or mortgages or other liens on, the assets of that subsidiary and would be subordinate to any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by us. As of June 16, 2006, our existing subsidiaries had no outstanding indebtedness (excluding intercompany debt and other liabilities). There are no restrictive covenants in the indenture for the notes relating to our ability to incur future indebtedness or complete other transactions. The indenture governing our notes does not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends. The indenture does not restrict the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or our subsidiaries. The indenture contains no covenants or other provisions to afford holders of our notes protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, such as a leveraged recapitalization, that would increase the level of our indebtedness, or a change in control except for the ability of the holders to require us to redeem the notes under certain circumstances. The indenture governing our notes does not restrict us from incurring senior secured debt in the future or from guaranteeing our indebtedness, nor does it limit the amount of indebtedness that we can issue that is equal to our notes in right of payment. If we or our subsidiaries were to incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on the notes could be adversely affected. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations recently increased upon the issuance of our notes, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations with respect to our notes from our existing cash, investments and operations. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: — requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; — increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; — limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and -24- — placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Holders of our notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our ordinary shares, but they are subject to all changes made with respect to our ordinary shares. Holders of our notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our ordinary shares (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive dividends, if any, or other distributions on our ordinary shares), but such holders are subject to all changes affecting our ordinary shares. Holders of our notes are entitled to rights on the ordinary shares if and when we deliver ordinary shares to such holders in exchange for their notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our articles of association requiring shareholder approval and the record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery to a converting holder of our notes of our ordinary shares, such holders will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although that holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our ordinary shares. Our ability to fulfill our obligations under our notes is dependent upon our future financial and operating performance. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our notes when due and to satisfy our other debt obligations depends in part upon our future financial performance and upon our ability to renew or refinance any debt obligations or to raise additional equity capital. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt services obligations, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as: — reducing our operating expenses; — reducing or delaying capital expenditures; — selling assets; or — raising additional equity capital. We cannot be sure that any of these alternatives could be accomplished on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that those actions would provide sufficient funds to retire the notes and our other debt obligations. -25- We may not have the ability to purchase our notes for cash if required to do so by holders on November 9, 2009, November 9, 2014 or November 9, 2019, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. On November 9, 2009, November 9, 2014 or November 9, 2019, or upon specified fundamental changes relating to us, each holder of the notes may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of such holder’s notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to but excluding the date of purchase. In addition, in the case of certain fundamental changes occurring before November 9, 2009, we may be required to pay a make-whole premium to holders of the notes. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient financial resources to purchase the notes for cash, or will be able to raise debt financing if we are required to purchase the notes at the option of the holders of such notes or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. This repurchase requirement may also delay or make it harder for others to obtain control of us. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. U.S. shareholders may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences as a result of our possible status as a passive foreign investment company. Based on the composition of our gross income and the composition and value of our gross assets during 2004 and 2005, we do not believe that we would be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for either the 2004 or 2005 tax year.While it is possible that we would have been classified as a PFIC in 2001, 2002 and 2003, there can be no assurance that we will not be treated as a PFIC in any future tax year. If we are a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. shareholders who owned our ordinary shares during such year may be subject to increased United States federal income tax liabilities and reporting requirements for such year and succeeding years, even if we are no longer a PFIC in such succeeding years. We urge U.S. holders of our ordinary shares to review Item 10E. – “Taxation – United States Tax Considerations – United States Federal Income Taxes – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status” in this Annual Report and to consult their own tax advisors with respect to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of an investment in our ordinary shares. -26- 