ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties associated with our company and ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Some statements in this annual report (including some of the following risk factors) are forward-looking statements. See the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I, Item 1 of this annual report. Our revenue growth and profitability depends on the continued growth of demand for the products we offer. Demand for many of our products, and, therefore, our business, is affected by changes in consumer preferences, general economic and business conditions, and world events. For example, macro-economic trends in the United States and abroad, threatened or actual terrorist attacks or armed hostilities (or the resulting security concerns), or natural disasters could create economic and consumer uncertainty and delays in and increased costs of product shipments to and from us, which may decrease demand. A softening of demand, for whatever reason, may result in decreased revenue or growth, which could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. Revenue growth or profitability may not be sustainable and our company-wide and by-segment percentage growth rates may decrease in the future. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • the frequency and size of customer orders and the quantity and mix of products our customers purchase; 9 Table of Contents • changes in consumer acceptance and usage of the Internet, online services, and e-commerce; • the price we charge for our products and for shipping those products, or changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • the extent to which we offer free shipping or other promotional discounts to our customers; • our ability to acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • technical difficulties, system downtime, or interruptions; • timing and costs of upgrades and developments in our systems and infrastructure; • timing and costs of marketing and other investments; • disruptions in service by shipping carriers; • the introduction by our competitors of websites, products, or services; • the extent of reimbursements available from third-party payors; • an increase in the price of fuel used in the transportation of packages, or an increase in the prices of other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, which are used in our operating facilities; • changes in the mix of products purchased by our customers. (for example, if customers purchase a higher proportion of generic prescription drugs than we anticipate, which generic prescription drugs have lower prices and higher margins than branded drugs, our net sales may decrease while our product margins increase; moreover, if our OTC net sales do not grow as much as we anticipate or the proportion of OTC net sales compared to net sales in other segments is lower than we anticipate, our margins will be lower than we currently plan); • the effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions, and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate them into our business; and • changes in government regulation. In addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, a delay in generating or recognizing revenue for any reason could result in substantial additional operating losses. A portion of our revenues is also seasonal in nature. Traditional retail seasonality affects our OTC business, resulting in higher revenues in the fourth quarter of each year as compared to other quarters. We may be unable to manage the increased sales effectively, and increases in inventory in anticipation of holiday sales could negatively affect our cash flow. In addition, sales of some health and beauty products are driven, to some extent, by seasonal purchasing patterns and seasonal product changes, such as diet products, cold and flu medications, and products with holiday-specific varieties. Consumer fads and other changes in consumer trends may also cause shifts in purchasing patterns, resulting in significant fluctuations in our operating results from one quarter to the next. Our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our industry make it difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues and our rate of growth. We believe that, because of these factors, historical trends and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as an indicator of our future performance. In the past, our operating results have sometimes been, and it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters they will be, below the expectations of investors and securities analysts. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall substantially, and stockholders may lose all or a part of their investment. 10 Table of Contents If our marketing efforts are not effective at attracting and retaining customers at an acceptable cost, we will be unable to achieve consistent profitability. If we do not maintain our brand and continue to increase awareness of our products and services, we may not build a critical mass of customers. Promoting and positioning our brand depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide consistent, high quality customer experiences. We believe that, because we are a small company with low public brand awareness, achieving significant market awareness will require significant marketing expense. To promote our brand and our products and services, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expense in our marketing efforts both to attract and to retain customers. Our promotional activities may not be effective at building our brand awareness and customer base to the extent necessary to generate sufficient revenue to become consistently profitable. Search engine and other online marketing initiatives comprise a substantial part of our marketing efforts, and our success depends in part on our ability to manage costs associated with these initiatives, or to find other channels to acquire and retain customers cost-effectively. The demand for and cost of online advertising has been increasing and may continue to increase. An inability to acquire and retain customers at a reasonable cost would increase our operating costs and prevent us from maintaining profitability. If we fail to integrate, maintain or enhance our strategic relationships to help promote our website and expand our product offerings, our development could be hindered. We have entered into a number of strategic partnerships to build, host, and process and fulfill orders, most recently, with Rite Aid Corporation (Rite Aid), Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (Medco), and Luxottica Group S.p.A. (Luxottica). We believe that our relationships and other strategic partners, Internet portals, third-party distributors, and manufacturers are critical to attract customers, to facilitate broad market acceptance of our products and the drugstore.com brands, and to enhance our sales and marketing capabilities. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to develop or maintain key relationships, our ability to attract customers would suffer and our business would be adversely affected. The process of integrating and maintaining strategic partnerships may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. Such risks include a diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration of the strategic partnerships, partners having interest, strategies or goals inconsistent with ours, business decisions or other actions of our partners may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the partnership, and such partnerships require a significant investment of time and resources, and we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset this investment. We may incur additional operating losses and expenses as a result of the operations of the strategic partnerships. In addition, we are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of our strategic partners. Our business could be harmed if any of our strategic partners were to experience financial or operational difficulties or if other corporate developments adversely affect their performance under their agreements with us. Our future growth strategy may depend in part on our ability to acquire complementary or strategic businesses. Any such acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties, difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary or strategic businesses, technologies, services, and products as part of our strategy to increase our net sales and customer base. The process of integrating acquisitions into our business and operations has resulted in, and may in the future result in: • unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses and resources that would otherwise be available for operation, ongoing development and expansion of our business; 11 Table of Contents • problems retaining key personnel of the businesses that we acquire; • additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested; • the potential impairment of tangible assets, such as inventory, and intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; • the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the business that we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. To the extent we miscalculate our ability to integrate and properly manage acquired businesses, technologies, services, and products, or we depend on the continued service of acquired personnel who choose to leave, we may have difficulty in achieving our operating and strategic objectives. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. We may be subject to unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. While we attempt in our acquisitions to determine the nature and extent of any pre-existing liabilities, and to obtain indemnification rights from the previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of acquisition, resolving issues of liability between the parties could involve a significant amount of time, manpower and expense. If we or any of our subsidiaries were to be unsuccessful in a claim for indemnity from the seller of a business that we acquire, the liability imposed on us or our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to assimilate successfully the additional personnel, operations, acquired technology or products or services into our business. Further, the physical expansion in facilities that could occur as a result of any acquisition may result in disruptions that could seriously impair our business. In addition, due to the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, valuations supporting our acquisitions could change rapidly, and we could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments which could adversely impact our financial results. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or to negotiate and complete acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, any future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, and, to the extent it is available, we may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these activities. This could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization or impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Sufficient capital or financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. In connection with our acquisition of Salu, Inc., we will enter a new line of business – clinical skin care and spa products – with greater targeted international operations. We cannot assure you that our expansion into this business line will succeed. We will enter the clinical skin care and spa products business with our acquisition of Salu. We cannot assure that our expansion into this businesses will succeed. We have limited experience in the sale of clinical skin care and spa products, particularly to targeted international markets. While we have operations in Canada, we have not previously had operations outside of North America. Our entry into this area will require us to devote substantial financial, technical, managerial and other resources. As noted above, international expansion comes 12 Table of Contents with substantial risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate the additional personnel, operations, acquired technology or products or services of Salu, Inc. into our business and there is no guarantee that key personnel of Salu will continue to work for us. In addition, in connection with the acquisition, certain senior management employees of Salu will be eligible to receive performance incentive payments in cash for each of the 2010 and 2011 fiscal years with an aggregate value of up to $2.5 million if certain financial performance targets are achieved. These bonuses may limit our cash available to make future acquisitions and operate our business, and may affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. It is uncertain whether we will benefit financially from this acquisition. We are expanding into international markets, causing our business to be increasingly susceptible to international business risks and challenges that could affect our profitability. Through our contract with E4X, Inc. and certain operations of our newly acquired subsidiary, Salu, Inc., we sell certain OTC products in international markets and expect to expand into international markets more aggressively in the future. To date, our international business activities have been limited. Our lack of a track record outside the United States increases the risks described below. In addition, our experience in the United States may not be relevant to establishing a business outside the United States. Accordingly, our international expansion strategy is subject to significant execution risk, and we cannot assure that our strategy will be successful. International sales are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including: • the risk that our marketing strategies will not translate well to international markets and that we will need to expend resources to adapt those strategies for a variety of new markets; • the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships; • the need to comply with additional U.S. and foreign laws and regulations to the extent applicable, including but not limited to, restrictions on advertising practices, regulations governing online services, restrictions on importation of specified or proscribed items, importation quotas, consumer protection laws, enforcement of intellectual property rights, laws dealing with consumer and data protection, privacy, encryption, and restrictions on pricing or discounts; • unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs, and geopolitical events such as war and terrorist attacks; • managing fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection from overseas customers; • potential adverse tax consequences in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions; and • uncertain political and economic climates. To the extent we generate significant international sales, any negative impact on our international operations could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. In addition, it is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites that promote our brand internationally, which could further harm our revenues and operating results. If the recent global economic crisis has a disproportionate impact on our business or that of our significant partners and suppliers, our business and results of operations would be harmed. The recent deterioration in the U.S. and global credit markets and the financial services industry could negatively affect our business or that of our significant partners and suppliers. Tightening of credit and the recent decline in the housing market has led to a lack of consumer confidence and a reduction in business activity 13 Table of Contents generally, which could significantly harm our revenues and operating results. In addition, our vendors could experience serious cash flow or other financial or operational problems due to the current economic conditions. As a result, our vendors may attempt to increase prices, alter payment terms, or seek other relief in order to offset these problems. Vendors may further be forced to reduce production, shut down operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases could have a significant impact on our ability to serve the market’s needs. In addition, access to credit from financial institutions may not be available. We do not expect the current economic conditions to improve significantly in the near future, and any continuation and/or worsening of the economic environment could intensify the adverse affects of these difficult market conditions. We may be unable to obtain the additional capital we need in the future to support our growth. Our available funds may not be sufficient to meet all of our long-term business development requirements, and we may seek to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. Due to the recent tightening of the credit and equity markets, any additional financing that we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our strategic flexibility or ability to develop and grow our business may be significantly limited. We face significant competition from both traditional and online retailers. The market segments in which we compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including both the retail and e-commerce services industries. These competitors include chain drugstores, mass-market retailers, warehouse clubs, supermarkets, specialty retailers, major department stores, PBMs, insurers and health care providers, mail-order pharmacies (legitimate and illegitimate), national optical chains, eye care professionals, Internet portals and online service providers that feature shopping services, and various online stores that offer products within one or more of our product categories. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms, operate with a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, or devote more resources to technology development and marketing than we do. In addition, other companies in the retail and e-commerce service industries may enter into business combinations or alliances that would strengthen their competitive positions and prevent them, their affiliated companies, or their strategic partners from entering into relationships with us. An inability to enter into or maintain relationships with major PBMs, insurance companies, or managed care organizations could be a major competitive disadvantage to us. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail and allow our competitors to duplicate many of the products, services, and content offered on our site. We believe that the Internet facilitates entry into the retail market and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. We expect competition in the e-commerce channel to intensify, and this increased competition may reduce our ability to grow and, as a result, reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, and harm our business. In addition, we face competition from online pharmacies outside the United States. Although it is currently illegal to re-import prescription drugs into the United States from any foreign country, a growing number of U.S. consumers seek to fill their prescriptions through Canadian and other foreign online pharmacies, and a number of state and local governments have set up websites directing their constituents to Canadian pharmacies. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has taken only limited action to date, and may not take aggressive action in the future, against those who illegally re-import prescription drugs or support or facilitate illegal re-importation. The U.S. Congress has enacted legislation governing online pharmacies that imposes restrictions on operations and other regulatory requirements on online pharmacies that do not apply to our brick-and-mortar or foreign-based online counterparts. In addition, legislation allowing for re-importation of prescription drugs by individuals for personal 14 Table of Contents use has repeatedly been introduced. If such legislation were to be enacted, or if consumers increasingly use foreign-based online prescription drug websites instead of U.S.-based online pharmacies, such as ours, to fill their prescription needs, our business and operating results could be harmed. If people or property are harmed by the products we sell, product liability claims could damage our business and reputation. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by these products and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Any such product liability claim or product recall may result in adverse publicity regarding us and the products we sell, which may harm our reputation. If we are found liable under product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Further, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims, and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business. Some of our vendors do not indemnify us against product liability. Further, our liability insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed as a result of these claims, and we cannot be certain that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Any imposition of product liability that is not covered by vendor indemnification or our insurance could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Most of our fulfillment operations and all of our owned inventory are located in our distribution facilities, and any significant disruption of these centers’ operations would hurt our ability to make timely delivery of our products. We conduct most of our fulfillment operations from our distribution facilities in Swedesboro, New Jersey. Our primary distribution center in Swedesboro and our inventory storage facility in Logan Township, New Jersey house our entire product inventory. In January 2010, we closed our Ferndale, Washington facility and transferred our vision inventory to our distribution facility in Swedesboro, New Jersey. Additionally, our newly acquired subsidiary, Salu, Inc., has a third-party fulfillment partner in Columbus, Ohio. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, server or systems failure, terrorist attack, or other comparable event at our New Jersey facilities or the fulfillment partner’s Ohio facilities would cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of inventory and could render us unable to process or fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. Further, we have no formal disaster recovery plan, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that a significant part of our New Jersey facilities or the fulfillment partner’s Ohio facilities were destroyed or our operations were interrupted for any extended period of time, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of fulfillment and distribution partners. If we are unable to obtain shipments of product from our vendors and deliver merchandise to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations would be harmed. We purchase most of our pharmaceutical inventory and our supply of Rite Aid private label products through Rite Aid or its wholesale partners. Our business could be significantly disrupted if Rite Aid were to breach its contract or suffer adverse developments that affect its ability to supply products to us. If for any reason Rite Aid is unable or unwilling to supply products to us in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, we may not be able to secure alternative fulfillment partners on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our timely and cost-effective procurement of products from our vendors and delivery of products to our customers. We use a third-party fulfillment partner in Columbus, Ohio to fulfill all Salu orders. We also rely on a limited number of third-party carriers for shipments of products to and from our and our distribution facilities and those of our third-party fulfillment partner and to customers. We are therefore subject to the risks, including increased fuel costs, security concerns, labor disputes, 15 Table of Contents union organizing activity, and inclement weather, associated with our carriers’ ability to provide product fulfillment and delivery services to meet our distribution and shipping needs. Failure to procure and deliver merchandise, either to us or our fulfillment partner(s) or to our customers, in a timely and accurate manner would harm our reputation, the drugstore.com brands, our business, and our results of operations. In addition, any increase in fulfillment costs and expenses could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to optimize management of our distribution centers, we may be unable to meet customer demand. Our ability to meet customer demand may be significantly limited if we do not successfully operate our distribution centers, including in connection with any plans to move our Salu fulfillment operations to our own distribution centers. Because it is difficult to predict sales volume, we may be unable to manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment, or distribution capacity. In addition, failure to control product damage and shrinkage effectively through security measures and inventory management practices could adversely affect our operating margins. Our margins and revenues may also be affected if we are unable to obtain products from manufacturers and wholesalers timely and on favorable terms. In addition, if we need to increase our distribution capacity sooner than anticipated, including in connection with any plans to move our Salu fulfillment operations, that expansion would require additional financing that may not be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Under our distribution agreement with GNC, and consignment arrangements with other partners, we maintain inventory of third parties’ products in our primary distribution center, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in, and the operation of, our distribution center. Our failure to properly handle third party inventory that we hold would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. We need to manage changing and expanding operations. Over the past several years, we have significantly expanded our operations, including through Salu, and we anticipate that we will continue to expand. Our past growth has placed, and we expect that our anticipated future operations and expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial, and other resources. Some of the administrative and operational challenges we have faced in the past as a result of our expansion and seasonal growth include the management of an expanded number of product offerings; the assimilation of systems and technologies of acquired companies; increased pressure on our senior management; and increased demand on our systems and internal controls. Our ability to manage our operations and expansion effectively depends on the continued development and implementation of plans, systems, and controls that meet our operational, financial, and management needs. If we are unable to develop or implement these plans, systems, or controls or otherwise manage our operations and growth effectively, we will be unable to increase gross margins or achieve consistent profitability, and our business will be harmed. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations. We expect the largest amount of our net sales to occur during our fourth quarter. If we do not stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future revenue. If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce our gross margins. We may experience an increase in our shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If our systems and processes are not prepared to address peak volumes during high demand seasons, holidays, and events, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to staff our distribution centers adequately during these peak periods, and delivery companies may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. 16 Table of Contents A disruption in our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption to our operations, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, and any damage to our physical locations, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the risk of damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses and interruptions; • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to customers of our partners’ e-commerce businesses and adversely impact our partners’ e-commerce businesses. These events could also prevent us from fulfilling orders for our partners’ e-commerce businesses. Our partners might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. Our primary data center is located at the facilities of a third-party hosting company. We do not control the security, maintenance or operation of these facilities, which are also susceptible to similar disasters and problems. Further, we have no formal disaster recovery plan, and our insurance policies may not cover us for losses related to these events, and even if they do, they may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we or our partners’ may incur. Any system failure that causes an interruption of the availability of our partners’ e-commerce businesses could reduce the attractiveness of our partners’ e-commerce businesses to consumers and result in reduced revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant inventory risk. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully and to meet our customers’ expectations that we will have the products they order in stock. However, we must also guard against the risk of accumulating excess inventory. We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of rapid changes in product cycles, changes in consumer tastes, uncertainty of success of product launches, seasonality, manufacturer backorders, and other vendor-related problems. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and events, which we may be unable to do, and avoid over- or under-stocking products. In addition, demand for products can change significantly between the time product inventory is ordered and the time it is available for sale. When we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A failure to optimize inventory would increase our expenses if we have too much inventory, and would harm our margins by requiring us to make split shipments for backordered items or pay for expedited delivery from the manufacturer if we had insufficient inventory. In addition, we may be unable to obtain certain products for sale on our websites as a result of general shortages (for example, in the case of some prescription drugs), manufacturer policies (for example, in the case of some contact lenses and prestige beauty items), manufacturer or distributor problems, or popular demand. Failure to have inventory in stock when a customer orders it could cause us to lose that order or that customer. The acquisition of some types of inventory, or inventory from some of our sources, may require significant lead time or prepayment, and this inventory may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection of products and significant inventory levels of a substantial number of 17 Table of Contents products, and we may be unable to sell this inventory in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. The occurrence of one or more of these inventory risks may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our vendor relationships subject us to a number of risks. We have significant vendors that are important to our sourcing of merchandise. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our relationship with Rite Aid involves many risks and restricts our ability to promote, contract with, or operate traditional retail stores. We have entered into a series of agreements with Rite Aid that involve many aspects of our respective businesses and the operation of our respective websites, the fulfillment of orders, and the extension of Rite Aid’s insurance relationships to cover prescriptions processed by us. We currently use Rite Aid’s systems to process prescription orders in our mail-order pharmacy segment. If we were unable to maintain our relationship with Rite Aid and could not implement an alternative method for processing prescriptions, through either our own systems or those of a third party, we would be unable to maintain our pharmacy operations. The loss of our pharmacy sales, which comprised approximately 9% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, would greatly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Our arrangement with Rite Aid is complex and requires substantial effort and attention to operate and manage successfully. We may not be able to accommodate changes that Rite Aid may make to its systems that we use, which may limit our ability to operate our business. While Rite Aid has committed to promoting the Rite Aid online store in its stores and in its advertising, we do not control the choice of ads, and this form of advertising may not generate traffic to or orders from the Rite Aid online store. In addition, a substantial alteration of Rite Aid’s marketing efforts, or a breach by Rite Aid of its marketing obligations, could adversely affect revenues generated by the Rite Aid online store. Our relationship with Rite Aid also substantially broadens our ability to provide prescription medications to consumers with insurance reimbursement plans, it may not allow all of our potential customers to purchase these medications from drugstore.com and receive insurance reimbursement, which could adversely affect consumer perceptions of us and our revenues. In addition, our relationship with Rite Aid contains limitations on the scope of our marketing activities, including restrictions on our ability to promote, or to affiliate with, any service that would be competitive to the Rite Aid LPU pharmacy service or Rite Aid online store. These restrictions could limit our flexibility and ability to grow our business if our relationship with Rite Aid is not successful. We face uncertainty related to pharmaceutical costs and pricing, which could affect our revenues and profitability. Pharmacy sales accounted for approximately 9% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2009. Sales of our pharmacy products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations, PBMs, and other organizations. These organizations are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. The efforts of third-party payors to contain costs often place downward pressures on profitability from sales of prescription drugs. In addition, our products or services may not be considered cost- effective, and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a profit. In 2006, the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or DIMA, became effective. As we expected, the Medicare Part D prescription 18 Table of Contents drug benefit has negatively affected, and is likely to continue to have a negative impact on, our business. Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage will likely increase the number of senior citizens with prescription drug coverage and reduce the number of customers who pay for their prescription drugs themselves. Customers who choose to obtain coverage under a Medicare Part D plan will likely purchase fewer drugs, or no longer purchase drugs, from us. Because we are not currently processing claims for Medicare Part D, we will be able to serve Medicare D customers only when those customers elect to purchase outside of their Medicare Part D plan and purchase their prescriptions out-of-pocket, such as when the particular medication is not covered by the customer’s Medicare plans or when the customer’s purchase is not covered because of a deductible, co-payment, or other exclusion. Moreover, the DIMA calls for significant changes to the formulas the Medicare program uses to calculate its payments for prescription drugs, as well as introduction of managed care elements and changes to the administration of the drug benefit program. When fully implemented, these changes could exert downward pressure on prescription drug prices and payments by the government, even as the number of people who use the Medicare benefits to pay for prescription drugs increases. All of these factors could adversely affect our drug prices and dispensing fees, and ultimately could reduce our profit margins. In addition, our revenues from prescription drug sales may also be affected by health care reform initiatives of federal and state governments, including proposals designed to address other government programs, prescription drug discount card programs, changes in programs providing for reimbursement for the cost of prescription drugs by third-party payors, and regulatory changes related to the approval process for prescription drugs. These initiatives could lead to the enactment of additional federal and state regulations that may adversely affect our prescription drug sales. If we are unable to obtain insurance reimbursement coverage for our customers, our ability to sell pharmacy products online could decrease, which would harm our revenues. To obtain reimbursement on behalf of our customers for the prescription products that they purchase on our website, we must maintain relationships with insurance companies, managed health organizations, and PBMs, either directly or through our relationship with Rite Aid. Many of our direct agreements with insurance companies, PBMs, and third-party benefits companies are short-term, may be terminated with less than 30 days’ prior notice, and are subject to unilateral amendment by the other party. If we are unable to establish, maintain, and leverage our direct relationships with insurers, PBMs, and third-party benefit companies, and to the extent Rite Aid is unable to maintain its relationships or if these relationships do not extend to cover the prescriptions we process, our ability to obtain reimbursement coverage for our customers would be reduced. This would reduce the number of customers that fill prescriptions through our website, which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we must process each customer’s insurance application, which raises the costs of processing prescription orders and may delay the customer’s initial prescription order. Customers may not embrace our online insurance coverage procedure. Any errors in filling or packaging the prescription drugs or contact lenses we dispense may expose us to liability and negative publicity. Errors relating to prescriptions, dosage, and other aspects of the prescription medication and contact lens dispensing process may result in liability for us that our insurance may not cover. Because we distribute pharmaceutical products and contact lenses directly to the consumer, we are one of the most visible participants in the distribution chain and therefore have increased exposure to liability claims. Our pharmacists are required by law to offer counseling, without additional charge, to our customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects, and other information deemed significant by the pharmacists. Our pharmacists may have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential adverse effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate those effects. In addition, our pharmacists provide 19 Table of Contents information and respond to user inquiries on our websites and those of certain of our partners. This counseling is in part accomplished through e-mails to our customers, inserts included with the prescription, and in some circumstances, online postings, which may increase the risk of miscommunication because the customer is not personally present to receive the counseling or advice or may not have provided us with all relevant information. Although we also post product information on our website, customers may not read this information. Providing information on pharmaceutical and other products creates the potential for claims to be made against us for negligence, personal injury, wrongful death, product liability, malpractice, invasion of privacy, or other legal theories based on our product or service offerings. Our general liability, product liability, and professional liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that may be imposed if any such claims were to be successful. Errors by either us or our competitors may also produce significant adverse publicity either for us or for the online pharmacy or vision industries in general. Because of the significant amount of press coverage on Internet retailing and online pharmacies, we believe that we are subject to a higher level of media scrutiny than other pharmacy product channels. The amount of negative publicity that we or the online pharmacy or vision industries receive as a result of pharmacy or prescription processing errors could be disproportionate in relation to the negative publicity received by other pharmacies or eye care professionals making similar mistakes. We have no control over the pharmacy practices of our competitors, and we cannot ensure that our pharmacists or our prescription processing operate completely without error. We believe customer acceptance of our online shopping experience is based in large part on consumer trust, and errors by us or our competitors and related negative publicity could erode this trust or prevent it from growing. This could result in an immediate reduction in the amount of orders we receive, adversely affect our revenue growth, and harm our business and operating results. Governmental regulation of our business could require significant expenditures, and failure to comply with regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations. For example: • entities such as drugstore.com engaging in the practice of pharmacy are subject to numerous federal and state regulatory requirements, including those relating to traditional pharmacy licensing and registration, the dispensing of prescription drugs, pharmacy record keeping and reporting, and the confidentiality, security, storage, and release of patient records, as well as additional online pharmacy requirements, including the Ryan Haight Online Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act of 2008 and related regulations; • the sale, advertisement, and promotion of, among other things, prescription, OTC and homeopathic medications, dietary supplements, medical devices, cosmetics, foods, and other consumer products that we sell are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and state regulatory authorities, as the case may be; and • our vision business is subject to the Fairness to Contact Lens Consumers Act and related regulations of the FTC, which requires all patients to renew their contact lens prescriptions annually and requires third-party contact lens sellers, like Vision Direct, to verify these prescriptions in accordance with specified procedures. As we expand our product and service offerings and more non-pharmaceutical products become subject to FDA, FTC, and other regulation, more of our products and services may become subject to regulation. In addition, regulatory requirements to which our business is subject may expand over time, and some of these requirements may have a disproportionately negative effect on Internet retailers. For example, the federal government and a majority of states now regulate the retail sale of OTC products containing pseudoephedrine that might be used as precursors in the manufacture of illegal drugs. As a result, we are currently unable to sell these products to customers residing in states that require retailers to obtain a physical form of identification or 20 Table of Contents maintain a signature log. Some members of Congress have proposed additional regulation of Internet pharmacies in an effort to combat the illegal sale of prescription drugs over the Internet, and state legislatures could add or amend legislation related to the regulation of nonresident pharmacies. In addition to regulating the claims made for specific types of products, the FDA and the FTC may attempt to regulate the content included on websites that market products to consumers. Complying with regulations is time-consuming, burdensome, and expensive and could delay our introduction of new products or services. As our website is accessible over the Internet in multiple states and other countries, and if and when we expand our marketing strategies to other countries, we may be subject to their laws and regulations or may be required to qualify to do business in those locations. Our failure to qualify in a state or country in which we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties and we could be subject to legal actions and liability in those jurisdictions. The restrictions or penalties imposed by, and costs of complying with, these laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our ability to enforce contracts and other obligations in states and countries in which we are not qualified to do business could be hampered, which could harm our business. The laws and regulations applicable to our business often require subjective interpretation, and we cannot be certain that our efforts to comply with these regulations will be deemed sufficient by the appropriate regulatory agencies. Violations of any regulations could result in various civil and criminal penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, seizure of our inventory, or monetary fines, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, or operating results. Compliance with new laws or regulations could increase our expenses or lead to delays as we adjust our websites and operations. Restrictions imposed by, and costs of complying with, governmental regulation of the Internet and data transmission over the Internet could harm our business. We are subject to the same federal, state, and local laws generally applicable to businesses, as well as those directly applicable to companies conducting business online, including consumer protection laws, user privacy laws, and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. In particular, many government agencies and consumers are focused on the privacy and security of medical and pharmaceutical records. Further, the growth of online commerce could result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on us. Today there are an increasing number of laws specifically directed at the conduct of business on the Internet. Moreover, due to the increasing use of the Internet, many additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as freedom of expression, pricing, user privacy, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. Applicability of existing laws to the Internet relating to issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity, and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, U.S. and international laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy, and sell mailing lists. The vast majority of these laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet, and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts, and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. The restrictions imposed by, and the costs of complying with, current and possible future laws and regulations related to businesses conducted on the Internet could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Healthcare reform measures and related changes in applicable federal and state laws could adversely affect our business. The efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Recently, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system, including for example, restructuring the tax benefits available through flexible spending accounts and/or health savings accounts by excluding non-prescription products, introducing regulation of prescription drug 21 Table of Contents pricing or limiting enforcement of laws prohibiting drug importation from Canada. Under current law, importation of drugs into the United States is generally not permitted unless the drugs are approved in the United States and the entity that holds that approval consents to the importation. Various proposals have been advanced to permit the importation of drugs from other countries to provide lower cost alternatives to the products available in the United States. If the laws or regulations are changed to permit more widespread importation of drugs into the United States than is currently permitted, such a change could have an adverse effect on our business by reducing revenues and eroding our margins. We are subject to a number of risks related to payments we accept. We accept payments by a variety of methods, including credit cards, gift certificates, and third-party payors such as Pay Pal, Google Checkout, and Bill Me Later. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For credit card payments and other third-party payors, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time, raising our operating costs and lowering our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make compliance difficult or impractical. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the products we sell in additional jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the ability of states to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made by companies lacking a physical presence in the state. Based on this case law, we have historically only collected and remitted sales and use taxes in the states of Washington and New Jersey where our corporate offices and distribution centers have been located. However, a number of states have passed or are considering passing initiatives that could test the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. The operation of our distribution centers, the operations of any future distribution centers, our drop-shipping agreements with vendors, our arrangements with marketing affiliates, and other aspects of our evolving business, however, may result in additional sales and use tax collection obligations. In addition, one or more other states may successfully assert that we should collect and remit sales and use or other taxes on the sale of our products in that state. One or more states or the federal government may seek, either through unilateral action or through federal legislation, to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in electronic commerce as we do. Effective July 2008, New York imposed such a sales tax obligation requirement on on-line retailers that use New York residents to directly or indirectly refer potential customers, via a link on an Internet Website or otherwise, to the online retailer. As a result, we began collecting and remitting sales tax in New York in July 2008. Since then, other states have enacted legislation similar to New York’s, including Rhode Island in June 2009 and North Carolina in August 2009. In response, we have suspended certain marketing affiliate relationships with persons and entities residing in Rhode Island and North Carolina, which may cause our sales to decline. Other states are considering similar laws, and if such laws become effective, we may have to change or limit our marketing activities in those states or face additional sales tax collection and remittance obligations, either of which could have a negative effect on our sales. In addition, one or more states could begin to impose sales taxes on sales of prescription products, which are not generally taxed at this time. While we believe we are in compliance with existing laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant fines or other payments for any unintentional past failure to comply with tax regulations. This could result in substantial tax liabilities for our past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 22 Table of Contents Pending an authoritative reconciliation of these initiatives with the common law, and potentially for years into the future if any challenge to these initiatives resulted in a reversal by the courts of the long-standing restriction on states’ ability to tax out of state sellers, we could be required to collect and remit sales and use taxes in states other than Washington, New York and New Jersey. In addition, applicable law in most states does not currently require us to collect sales tax on the sales of prescription medications. If the applicable law were to change, we would be required to collect and remit sales and use taxes for prescription products. The imposition of additional tax obligations on our business by state and local governments could create significant administrative burdens for us, decrease our future sales, and harm our cash flow and operating results. We may be unable to increase the migration of consumers of health, beauty, vision, and pharmacy products from brick-and-mortar stores to our online solution, which would harm our revenues and prevent us from becoming profitable. If we do not continue to attract and retain higher volumes of online customers to our Internet stores at a reasonable cost, we will not be able to increase our revenues or achieve consistent profitability. Our success depends on our ability to continue to convert a large number of customers from traditional shopping methods to online shopping for health, beauty, wellness, vision, and pharmacy products. Specific factors that could prevent widespread customer acceptance of our online solution include: • shipping charges, which do not apply to purchases made at a brick-and-mortar store; • delivery time associated with Internet orders, as compared to the immediate receipt of products at a brick-and-mortar store; • delays in deliveries to customers, particularly our West Coast customers; • lack of consumer awareness of our websites; • additional steps and delays in verifying prescriptions and ensuring insurance coverage for prescription products; • non-participation in the networks of some insurance carriers and PBMs; • regulatory restrictions or reform at the state and federal levels that could affect our ability to serve our customers; • the general acceptance or legalization of prescription drug re-importation; • customer concerns about the security of online transactions, identity theft, or the privacy of their personal information; • product damage from shipping or shipments of wrong or expired products from us or other vendors, resulting in a failure to establish, or loss of, customers’ trust in buying drugstore items online; • inability to serve the acute care needs of customers, including emergency prescription drugs and other urgently needed products; • delays in responses to customer inquiries; • difficulties or delays in returning or exchanging orders; and • activity that diminishes a user’s online experience or subjects online shoppers to security risks, such as viruses, spam, spyware, phishing (spoofing e-mails directed at Internet users), “denial of service” attacks directed at Internet service providers and online businesses, and breaches of data security. Expanding the breadth and depth of our product and service offerings is expensive and difficult, and we may receive no benefit from our expansion. We intend to continue to expand the breadth and depth of our product and service offerings by promoting new or complementary products or sales formats. Expansion of our offerings in this manner could require 23 Table of Contents significant additional expenditures and could strain our management, financial, and operational resources. For example, in August, 2009 we launched our first microsite in an initiative to design separate web stores dedicated to specific categories of products. Additionally, we may need to incur significant marketing expenses, develop relationships with new fulfillment partners or manufacturers, or comply with new regulations. We may be unable to expand our product and service offerings or sales formats in a cost-effective or timely manner, and any new offerings or formats may not generate satisfactory revenues to offset the costs involved. Furthermore, any new product or service offering or sales format that is not favorably received by consumers could damage the reputation of our brand. A lack of market acceptance of our efforts or our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the cost of expanded offerings could harm our business. Increasing concern about privacy, spam, and the use and security of customer information could restrict our marketing efforts and harm our business. Internet retailers are also subject to increasing regulation and scrutiny relating to privacy, spam, and the use and security of personal user information. These regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement (for example, by Internet service providers), may increase the cost of growing our business. Current and proposed regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect and use demographic and personal information from users and send promotional e-mails, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. For example, if one or more Internet service providers were to block our promotional e-mails to customers, our ability to generate orders and revenue could be harmed. Further, any violation of privacy, anti-spam, or data protection laws or regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, and damages and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our network and communications systems are vulnerable to system interruption and damage, which could harm our operations and reputation. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders promptly and accurately is critical to our success and largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. We experience periodic system interruptions that impair the performance of our transaction systems or make our websites inaccessible to our customers. These systems interruptions may prevent us from efficiently accepting and fulfilling orders, sending out promotional e-mails and other customer communications in a timely manner, introducing new products and features on our website, promptly responding to customers, or providing services to third parties. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, which could cause them to avoid our websites, drive them to our competitors, and harm our reputation. To minimize future system interruptions, we need to continue to add software and hardware and to improve our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increases in website traffic and sales volume, to replace aging hardware and software, and to make up for several years of underinvestment in technology. We may be unable to promptly and effectively upgrade and expand our systems and integrate additional functionality into our existing systems. Any unscheduled interruption in our services, especially during the holiday shopping season, could result in fewer orders, additional operating expenses, or reduced customer satisfaction, any of which would harm our revenues and operating results and could delay or prevent our becoming consistently profitable. In addition, the timing and cost of upgrades to our systems and infrastructure may substantially affect our ability to maintain profitability. Our systems and operations, and those of our suppliers and Internet service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, server failure, telecommunications and Internet service failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, service delays, and loss of critical data for us, our suppliers, or our Internet service providers, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. For example, our Internet service provider recently experienced network outages that caused our website to be unavailable for several hours. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our websites or our customer processing, distribution, or communications systems, 24 Table of Contents for any reason, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. While we do have backup systems for some aspects of our operations, we do not have fully redundant backup systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate for all losses that may occur. Security breaches could damage our reputation, expose us to liability, or otherwise harm our business. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. To succeed, we must provide a secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and protect the confidential customer and patient information we retain, such as credit card numbers and prescription records. A third party who compromises or breaches the physical and electronic security measures we use to protect transaction data and customer records could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers, or otherwise harm our business. Any of these could harm our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and our insurance may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services could become obsolete and our business would be seriously harmed. As the Internet and online commerce industry evolve, we must license technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our web stores, proprietary technology, and transaction-processing systems to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. Failure to successfully and timely do so could adversely affect our ability to build the drugstore.com brand and attract and retain customers. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, and we may be found to infringe proprietary rights of others, which could harm our business, brand, and reputation. Our success depends in substantial part on our proprietary rights, including our technology, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets, and similar intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright law, as well as contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, however, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, obtain, and use technology or information that we regard as proprietary, such as our sales formats, the technology used to operate our website, our website content, and our trademarks. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We own a number of domain names, hold three patents and have filed applications for seven others, and have registered several trademarks and filed applications for a number of other trademarks in the United States and several other countries. We may be unable to secure the trademark registrations or patents for which we have applied, which could negatively affect our business. Our competitors or others may adopt marks or service names similar to ours, which could impede our ability to build brand identity and lead to customer confusion, and owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our marks could bring potential trade name or trademark infringement claims against us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, and effective patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may not be available in such jurisdictions. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if we are subject to any claims or customer confusion related to our intellectual property or any failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights. 25 Table of Contents Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the World Intellectual Property Organization may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or adverse priority proceeding or other efforts to protect our intellectual property could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could seriously harm our business and operating results. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, also assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of patent, trademark, or other proprietary rights held by them, whether or not their claims have merit. For example, one of our subsidiaries was sued over alleged copyright and trademark violations based on use of “pop-up” advertising, although this action was settled in June 2004 without any material adverse effects to us. We expect that participants in our markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any such claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the attention of our management, cause service upgrade delays, and harm our business or operating results. Furthermore, as a result of infringement claims we may be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to obtain suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. The third-party licenses on which we rely may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of such licenses could require us to incur greater cost or change our business plans, either of which could harm our business. We have a history of generating significant losses, and may not be able to sustain profitability. We have an accumulated deficit of $771.2 million through January 3, 2010. To date, we have had only three profitable quarters, and we may never achieve profitability on a full-year or consistent basis. We expect to continue to incur net losses in the first quarter of 2010, and possibly longer. As a result, our stock price may decline and stockholders may lose all or a part of their investment in our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to fluctuate, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, extremely volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described in this annual report, some of which are beyond our control, and these fluctuations could result in substantial losses for stockholders. In the past, securities class action and derivative litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We have been named in such lawsuits in the past, including certain putative class action and derivative suits filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors in 2004. Although the courts dismissed these lawsuits, we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Certain stockholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could discourage an acquisition of drugstore.com or make removal of incumbent management more difficult. Amazon.com beneficially owns approximately 12% of our outstanding stock, and is entitled to designate a director to serve on our board of directors, currently Geoffrey R. Entress. Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers, or KPCB, owns approximately 9% of our outstanding stock, Samana Capital, L.P (formerly Ziff Asset Management, L.P.)., or Samana, owns approximately 9% of our outstanding stock, Discovery Group I, LLC 26 Table of Contents owns approximately 7% of our outstanding stock, and T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. owns approximately 6% of our outstanding stock. Because each owns a significant percentage of our capital stock, any of these stockholders, or more than one of them, could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Furthermore, because of these substantial equity stakes in drugstore.com, competitors of these stockholders, or other potential acquirers could decide not to merge with, or acquire, us. In addition, in the case of a potential acquisition of drugstore.com by another party, a substantial equity stake in drugstore.com could prevent the tax-free treatment of an acquisition, making drugstore.com a less attractive acquisition candidate. In addition, if any of our significant stockholders were to sell a substantial quantity of their holdings in a short period of time, our stock price could decline. We failed to comply with one of the applicable listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market when we granted certain equity awards to certain of our employees and directors, and our business and stock price could be materially harmed if we are unable to restore these awards in a timely manner. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards. On March 10, 2010, we notified NASDAQ that we were not in compliance with Rule 5635(c) of the Corporate Governance Requirements with respect to certain equity awards granted under our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Plan”). The 2008 Plan requires that any award of restricted stock, among other securities, be counted against the 2008 Plan share reserve as three shares to every one share subject to the award (the “Full Value Award Provision”). Recently, we discovered that the share limit set forth in the 2008 Plan was exceeded as a result of the inadvertent and incorrect application of the Full Value Award Provision. Because the grant of certain awards exceeded the share reserve limit after proper application of the Full Value Award Provision, we may be deemed to have issued securities pursuant to the 2008 Plan without stockholder approval. Accordingly, we may be deemed not to have complied with Rule 5635(c) of the Corporate Governance Requirements. In our March 10th letter to NASDAQ, we submitted our plan to regain compliance with Rule 5635(c). Our compliance plan would condition the release and delivery of certain restricted stock awards and unvested options and stock appreciation rights on approval by our stockholders of an amendment to the 2008 Plan. We intend to include that amendment in our 2010 proxy statement as a proposal to be presented at our upcoming annual meeting of stockholders, expected to be held on or before June 10, 2010. We provided notice to affected award recipients on March 15, 2010. On March 16, 2010, NASDAQ informed us that by providing the foregoing notice to affected award recipients the Company had regained compliance with Rule 5635(c). However, there can be no assurance that we will obtain stockholder approval of the 2008 Plan amendment. In the event that our stockholders do not approve our proposed amendment to the 2008 Plan, the affected awards would be deemed forfeited pursuant to their terms and conditions. This forfeiture could reduce the morale of the affected recipients and could hinder our ability to award equity securities to our employees pursuant to the 2008 Plan in the immediate future, which could cause a more widespread reduction in employee morale. In addition, recipients of forfeited awards could bring contract claims against us for failing to deliver the awards. Any of these events could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 