Item 1A. Risk Factors. Significant factors that could impact the Company’s business operations include, without limitation, the following: • Availability or retention of retail space - In those countries where we maintain market leadership in the chewing gum segment, our ability to retain preferred retail space allocation will impact results, and if we are not able to retain this allocation, our results could be negatively impacted. • Availability of raw materials - Failure to maintain the availability, pricing and sourcing of raw materials could negatively impact results. • Changes in demography and consumer preferences - We market our products to different segments of the population. Failure to adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics and product preferences could negatively impact results. • Changes in foreign currency and markets conditions - Both manufacturing and sales of a significant portion of our products are outside the United States and could be negatively impacted by volatile foreign currencies and geographies. • Changes in product performance and competition - We compete worldwide with other well-established manufacturers of confectionery products, including chewing gum. Our results may be negatively impacted by a failure of new or existing products to be favorably received, by ineffective advertising, or by failure to sufficiently counter aggressive competitive actions. • Underutilization of or inadequate manufacturing capacity - Underutilization of or inadequate manufacturing capacity due to unanticipated movements in consumer demands could negatively impact manufacturing efficiencies and costs. • Discounting and other competitive actions - Discounting and other competitive actions may make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins. • Governmental regulations - Governmental regulations with respect to import duties, tariffs, taxes and environmental controls, both in and outside the U.S., could negatively impact our costs and ability to compete in domestic or foreign marketplaces. • Labor stoppages - To the extent we could experience any material labor stoppages, such disputes or strikes could negatively affect shipments from suppliers or shipments of finished product. • Outcome of integrating Kraft assets acquired - Our ability to successfully integrate certain confectionery assets of Kraft Foods Global, Inc. could cause actual results to differ from anticipated results or expectations of the Company’s business. • Political, economic and social instability While the countries in which we operate tend to be politically, socially and economically stable, to the extent there is political or social unrest, civil war, terrorism or significant economic instability, the results of our business in such countries could be negatively impacted. 5 Additional significant factors that may affect the Company’s operations, performance, development business results include the risks and uncertainties listed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the risk factors or uncertainties listed herein or listed in any document incorporated by reference herein. The factors identified above are believed to be significant factors, but not necessarily all of the significant factors, that could impact the Company’s business. Unpredictable or unknown factors could also have material effects on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 