Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to Our Chapter 11 Bankruptcy We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on January 13, 2012 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with Chapter 11 proceedings. For the duration of our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, include the following: • our ability to prosecute, confirm and consummate a Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”), which has not yet been proposed as of the date of this filing; • the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings that may be inconsistent with our plans; • our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted from time to time; • our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with consultants, vendors and service providers; • risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to confirm a proposed Plan, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert our bankruptcy to a Chapter 7 proceeding. 7 Table of Contents Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact that events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. Additionally, the outcome of any confirmed Plan may result in substantial dilution of our existing shareholders, the sale of substantially all of our assets, and/or the failure of the Company to continue as a publicly reporting company, which could cause any investment in the Company to become worthless. A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and prepetition liabilities must be satisfied in full before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. A plan of reorganization could result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and may even result in the cancellation of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of our equity security holders. Therefore, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative and may become worthless in the future upon approval of a plan, without any required approval or consent of such shareholders. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to operate. Under the Bankruptcy Code, all debtors must obtain bankruptcy court approval to, among other things: • sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; and • obtain financing secured by the Company’s assets. • In addition, if a trustee is appointed to operate the Company while in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the trustee would assume control of our assets. Risks Related to Our Oil and Natural Gas Business The report of our independent registered public accounting firm questions our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated in their audit report for the year ended December 31, 2011 in an explanatory paragraph that, due to our recurring losses, our working capital deficit, and our filing voluntary petitions for bankruptcy relief, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. See Note 2—Going Concern of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. If the Company is unable to continue as a going concern, you will lose your investment. In the event we are unable to refinance our line of credit or obtain substitute financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2011, our outstanding debt totaled over $10.5 million, including a $9.5 million line of credit with RBS Citizens, N.A. dba Charter One. Mr. Osborne, our CEO and Chairman of the Board, is a co-borrower and guarantor on the line of credit. Our line of credit matured on August 1, 2009. On June 18, 2010, the Company, along with Mr. Osborne, the Richard M. Osborne Trust, Great Plains Exploration, LLC and Oz Gas Ltd. (companies owned by Mr. Osborne), entered into a Forbearance Agreement with Charter One pursuant to which Charter One agreed to forbear from enforcing its rights and remedies under the Company’s fully-drawn $9.5 million line of credit as well as the other parties’ loan agreements until July 1, 2011, subject to no further events of default including the payments due under the Forbearance Agreement. 8 Table of Contents On July 1, 2011, the forbearance period expired and the Company did not pay off the line of credit. On October 3, 2011, Charter One instituted an action titled RBS Citizens, N.A. dba Charter One v. John D. Oil and Gas Co., et. al. in the United States District Court Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division claiming a default under the line of credit and seeking to foreclose upon property of the Company securing the line of credit and to appoint a receiver for the Company and certain companies owned or controlled by Mr. Osborne. On November 21, 2011, the court issued an order appointing a receiver to marshal and maintain the value of the assets of the Company as well as certain companies owned or controlled by Mr. Osborne. On January 13, 2012, the Company filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United Stated Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Pursuant to an order of the bankruptcy court entered on January 19, 2012, the previously appointed receiver returned custody and control of all of the Company’s property and records to management of the Company. Since that time, the Company has continued in possession of its assets and is operating its business as a debtor in possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. See Note 5 “Line of Credit and Long-Term Debt” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for more information. We do not have the available cash to repay the line of credit. If we are unsuccessful in refinancing the line of credit or if we are unsuccessful in obtaining substitute financing, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a going concern, your investment in the Company could become devalued or even worthless. If we are unable to refinance our existing debt or obtain financing in the amounts and on terms acceptable to us or we are unable to meet our future cash commitments, we may be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations of our business, the result of which would be that you could lose some or all of your investment. In addition, we require substantial capital expenditures to maintain and/or grow oil and gas production and reserves. To date, we have been dependent on debt financing to meet our cash requirements and have incurred losses totaling approximately $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, our sixth consecutive year of net losses. We do not expect to be profitable in 2012. We can provide no assurance that actual cash requirements will not exceed our estimates. In particular, additional capital may be required in the event that: • drilling and completion costs for further wells increase beyond our expectations; • market prices for our production decline beyond our expectations; • production levels do not meet our expectations; or • we encounter greater costs associated with general and administrative expenses. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our ability to meet our business plans. We depend on debt or equity financing to pay for our exploration and operations. The current economic environment makes it more difficult to obtain equity financing on acceptable terms to address our liquidity issues. Capital may not continue to be available if necessary to meet these continuing costs, or if capital is available that it will be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, we may not be able to meet our future cash commitments. If we are unable to obtaining financing in the amounts and on terms acceptable to us or if we are unable to meet our future cash commitments, we may be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations of our business, the result of which would be that you could lose some or all of your investment. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in refinancing the line of credit or obtaining substitute financing, we will likely be unable to continue our business and as a result may be required to scale back or cease operations of our business, the result of which would be that you could lose some or all of your investment. 9 Table of Contents We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and therefore, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. In our annual report on Form 10-K, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting was effective. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our size and staff limitations have prevented us from being able to employ sufficient resources to enable us to have an adequate level of supervision and segregation of duties within the internal control system. At times, we have one person responsible for processing transactions and reporting them. This lack of segregation of duties led our management to conclude that as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: • our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective, and • our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective to give reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in reports that we file under the Exchange Act are recorded, processed and reported as and when required. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet certain reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls may have also caused investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may have negatively affected our stock. Our Revenues depend on natural gas prices. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas. The natural gas market is very volatile and the current drop in market prices has significantly affected our financial results and may impede our growth. This decline in the current market price severely affects the viability of drilling in this market, because the lower cash flow makes it economically difficult to incur the high costs of drilling a well. Developments in federal regulation pertaining to the sale, transportation and marketing of natural gas also will continue to impact future pricing and natural gas contracts. The price we receive for our natural gas production will be determined by the availability of favorable purchase contracts, market forces, as well as short and long-term volume commitments. Our current plan will be to analyze available markets, with consideration of both price and terms, and to enter into those arrangements we believe to be in the best interest of the Company. We believe the current market pricing is too low to allow for long-term gas purchase agreements and that spot market sales are the only pricing available at this time. We expect that we will be able to sell all natural gas produced from our wells to either utility companies, marketing affiliates of pipeline companies, natural gas marketing firms, or a variety of industrial or commercial consumers of natural gas. However, we cannot guarantee our strategy will be effective. Natural gas markets are subject to many factors. The deliverability and price of natural gas are subject to supply and demand market forces as well as the effects of state and federal regulatory policies and developments. Prices for natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for natural gas; 10 Table of Contents • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Prices received for natural gas produced in the Appalachian Basin are generally higher than national averages due to the proximity to markets in the Northeast but remain subject to the seasonal market forces. In the past, the prices of natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Locations that we decide to drill may not be productive. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will not be economical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. These wells may need to be written-down. The Company expects to conduct any drilling programs in the Appalachian Basin into sandstone formations of the Clinton group and similar formations. These formations frequently are characterized by low permeability, rapid production decline assuming unrestricted production, and other geological characteristics which may limit the profit potential of wells drilled to these target formations. Although many wells drilled to these formations are completed, it is possible for a productive well to provide an amount of revenue which is insufficient to return the costs incurred in drilling and completing the well. Actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may prove to be lower than we have estimated. The reserve report prepared by Schlumberger Data and Consulting Services contains estimates of our proved reserves and the estimated future net revenue from our proved reserves. Determining these estimates is a complex process with estimates based upon various assumptions relating to review and decisions about engineering and geological data for each well. These estimates are particularly sensitive to lower market prices which tend to reduce reserves since average or lower producing wells may not produce enough to offset the expenses needed to operate the wells. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was significantly affected by lower market prices and showed higher depletion expense than in prior years. Our development operations require substantial capital expenditures. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We have made, and if we are to continue operations would have to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of natural gas reserves. We have financed capital expenditures primarily with equity infusions from existing investors, cash flow from operations and proceeds from loans. These sources of funds are not adequate to fund our capital needs. 11 Table of Contents We face significant competition. The natural gas and oil industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have significantly greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low natural gas and oil prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a third party to manage our business. We have an agreement with Great Plains Exploration, LLC (“Great Plains”) to manage our oil and natural gas operations. Great Plains is owned by Richard M. Osborne, our Chairman and CEO. Great Plains assists in the drilling process, tends our wells, transports our natural gas, and purchased and resold our production through November of 2011. If Great Plains fails to provide us with these services, or if the timeliness and quality of Great Plains’ services are not adequate, our business would be negatively impacted. Great Plains filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on January 11, 2012. The outcome of the bankruptcy proceeding could seriously, negatively impact our operations. In November of 2011, the Company signed a contract with Gas Natural Service Company, LLC to sell the Company’s natural gas. See Exhibits 10.15 and 10.16 to the annual report on Form 10-K for more information. The pipeline costs continue to be charged to the Company separately from Great Plains. Our business depends on gathering and transportation facilities owned by others. The marketability of our natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity in the system. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. To the extent that the Company’s wells are shut-in, even temporarily, revenues otherwise available to the Company will be reduced accordingly. We depend on a key customer for sales of our natural gas and oil. We sell all of our natural gas and oil production from the wells we operate to Gas Natural Service Company, LLC, a subsidiary of Gas Natural Inc., a publicly traded natural gas utility holding company of which Richard M. Osborne, our chairman, and chief executive officer, is also chairman, CEO and a significant shareholder. Our business is hazardous. Hazards such as geological nonconformities, unexpected pressures and other unforeseen conditions are sometimes encountered in drilling wells. On occasion, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could reduce funds available for drilling, resulting in the loss of properties of the Company. We may be subjected to liability for pollution and other damages or may lose a significant portion of our properties due to hazards against which we cannot insure or may not elect to insure because of prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Government regulations relating to environmental matters also could increase our costs of doing business or require us to cease operations in certain areas. We will require an independent drilling contractor to insure against hazards and other risks normally encountered in its business. However, there can be no assurance as to the extent and the cost of such coverage. An uninsured claim against us could reduce our capital significantly or cause us to alter or terminate our drilling program. 12 Table of Contents The oil and natural gas industry is highly regulated. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Risks Related to the Company We need to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us and may limit our operations or growth. We need additional capital to fund the implementation of our business plan and to repay our debt. We cannot provide assurances that any necessary subsequent financing will be obtained. The Company’s future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict as they depend upon many factors, including the success of its drilling operations and competing market developments. We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet working capital requirements or additional capital expenditures or to take advantage of other opportunities. We cannot be certain that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We have been unable to raise needed capital and our growth and operations may have been impeded. In addition, if we are able to raise additional capital by selling additional shares of common or preferred stock, your percentage ownership in the Company will be diluted. We have been unable to profitably operate the oil and natural gas assets we have acquired. In considering whether to invest in the Company, an investor should consider that we commenced our oil and gas operations in January 2006 and that we have been unable to earn a profit since then. To date, we have failed to implement our business model and strategy successfully. Our management team owns a controlling interest in the Company. Richard M. Osborne, our Chairman and CEO, and Thomas J. Smith, former president and a current board member, own or control an aggregate 41.0% of our outstanding shares, or 52.3% if their partnership units in LSS I were converted into shares. Accordingly, management possesses a near controlling vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders and has the ability to elect all members of our board of directors and to control our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of our Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. Our management team is subject to various conflicts of interest. Great Plains Exploration, LLC, a company owned by Richard M. Osborne, our Chairman and CEO, manages our oil and natural gas business. Gas Natural Service Company, LLC purchases all the gas we produce. Gas Natural Service Company, LLC is a subsidiary of Gas Natural Inc., in which Mr. Osborne is the largest stockholder and an officer of the company. We lease our executive offices from OsAir, Inc., a company owned by Mr. Osborne. Mr. Osborne is the sole manager of Liberty Self-Stor II, Ltd., which makes trucks available for short-term rental to the public at our self-storage facility and also provides other merchandise at this facility. The Company purchases well supplies from Big Oats Oilfield Supply Company, a company owned by Mr. Osborne. Orwell Trumbull Pipeline Co, LLC owns the gathering lines for the wells operated by the Company and is in turn owned by Mr. Osborne. 13 Table of Contents These arrangements create inherent conflicts of interest, although we believe that the terms we receive from Mr. Osborne’s companies are competitive with those we would receive from unaffiliated companies. In addition, members of our management team are participating in other affiliated oil and natural gas drilling enterprises or organizations or associations formed for the development of oil and natural gas properties, some of which may be competitive with the Company. The Company may compete with these other companies for drill sites and customers to purchase their products, creating further conflicts of interest. Management is not restricted in the conduct of any of these additional activities. No specific method for the resolution of these or other conflicts of interest has been devised. 