Risk Factors This annual report contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our growth and future operating results. For this purpose, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact should be considered a forward-looking statement. We often use the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this annual report. Risks Related To Our Business We expect our revenues and operating results to continue to fluctuate for the foreseeable future, and the price of our common stock is likely to fall if quarterly or annual results are lower than the expectations of securities analysts. Our revenues and operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past, and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the foreseeable future. If our quarterly or annual results fall below our 10 Table of Contents expectations and those of securities analysts, the price of our common stock is likely to fall. A number of factors are likely to cause variations in our operating results, including: • fluctuating economic conditions, particularly as they affect our customers’ willingness to implement new e-commerce solutions; • the timing of sales and revenue recognition of our products and services; • the timing of customer orders and product implementations; • delays in introducing new products and services; • the size of price discounting and/or concessions; • changes in the mix of revenues derived from products and services; • timing of hiring and utilization of services personnel; • cost overruns related to fixed-price services projects; • the mix of domestic and international sales; • variation in our actual costs from our cost estimates related to long term hosting contracts; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development or administration; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of technologies or businesses. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. The results of one quarter or a series of quarters should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If the market for our Hosting solutions does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business could be negatively affected. Our hosting solution business is at an early stage of development and it is uncertain whether we will achieve and sustain demand for our hosted offerings. Our success in this effort will depend in part on the price, performance and availability of competing products and services and the willingness of companies to increase their use of hosting applications. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and such companies may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to a hosting model. While we will continue to market and sell traditional licenses for our software solutions, we believe that the widespread market acceptance of our hosting software solutions is important to the success of our business because of the growth opportunities. Interruptions, delays or failures in our hosting services due to systems error or other causes, could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Our hosting solution business is at an early stage of development and any equipment failures, mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and/or failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any such interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability cause us to issue credits or to pay penalties or cause our clients to decide not to renew their hosting agreements any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our product license revenue may not continue to grow at the rate it did in 2005 if our implementation of subscription-based OnDemand hosting services shifts more product license revenue than anticipated to the subscription service model. Under our OnDemand hosting service option for customers, the customer uses ATG hosting services and pays a subscription-based fee for the use of the product license. Under SOP 97-2 the revenues related to the license portion of the service are recognized ratability over the hosting period. If a greater than expected number of our customers were to select OnDemand, our product license revenues would decrease in the near term as the license fee is deferred and recognized ratably over the hosting period. This could result in our revenue and cash flow in 2006 or subsequent periods being less than we had forecast, which could negatively affect our share price. We could incur substantial costs defending against a claim of infringement or protecting our intellectual property from infringement. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing Internet-related products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our technology infringes its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. For example, both ATG and our Primus subsidiary have been involved in litigation alleging that we have infringed United States patents owned by third parties. We may be required to incur substantial costs in defending infringement litigation in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify customers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, our customers have been subject to third party patent claims and we have agreed to indemnify such customers from such claims to the extent the claims related to our products. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party may force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign those products or services to avoid infringement. We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software under a combination of patent, copyright and trade secrets law. However, because we make the source code available to some customers, third parties may be more likely to misappropriate it. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers and to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for someone to copy our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists; software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. However, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Any such resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Finally, our professional services may involve the development of custom software applications for specific customers. In some cases, customers retain ownership or impose restrictions on our ability to use the technologies developed from these projects. Issues relating to the ownership of software can be complicated, and disputes could arise that affect our ability to resell or reuse applications we develop for customers. We may not be able to sustain or increase our revenue or attain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis which could lead to a material decrease in the price of our common stock. We incurred losses in the second quarter of 2005, the first, second and fourth quarters of 2004, and in the first and third quarters of 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $199.5 million. Although our revenues increased 31% to $90.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with $69.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, this was primarily attributable to our acquisition of Primus. Our revenues decreased 5% to $69.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared with $72.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we have difficulty predicting our future operating results and we cannot be certain that our revenues will grow or our expenses will decrease at rates that will allow us to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Additionally, we may experience other adverse effects on our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Turnover in our personnel may impair our ability to develop and implement a business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and common stock price. Members of our management team, including executives with significant responsibilities in our finance, sales, marketing and research and development operations and executives of our acquired Primus subsidiary, have left us during the past few years for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures in the future. These changes in management, and any future similar changes, may be disruptive to our operations or affect our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, equity incentives such as stock options constitute an important part of our total compensation program for management, and the volatility or lack of positive performance of our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to retain our management team or hire replacements. We rely heavily on our direct sales force. Changes in the structure of our sales force have historically resulted in temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult to predict our quarterly results and causes variability in our operating results. Our long sales cycle, which can often take several months or more, makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. We have a long sales cycle because we generally need to educate potential customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and services. Our sales cycle varies depending on the size and type of customer contemplating a purchase and whether we have conducted business with a potential customer in the past. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses in anticipation of licensing our products, and if we do not achieve the level of revenues we expected, our operating results will suffer and our stock price may decline. These potential customers frequently need to obtain approvals from multiple decision makers prior to making purchase decisions. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular period. Like most software companies, a significant proportion of our sales are concentrated near the end of each fiscal quarter. Failure to close or be able to recognize revenues on even a relatively small number of license deals at quarter end can have a significant impact on our reported operating results for that quarter. This concentration of sales at quarter end can also lead to customer pressure to provide higher price discounts than anticipated. In addition, there can be no assurance that deals that are not closed at the end of a fiscal quarter, will be entered into during any subsequent quarter. 13 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the market for Internet online marketing, sales and service applications, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. This competition could cause our revenues to fall short of expectations, which could adversely affect our future operating results and our ability to grow our business. The market for online marketing, sales and services applications is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. This level of competition could reduce our revenues and result in increased losses or reduced profits. Our primary competition currently comes from in-house development efforts by potential customers or partners, as well as from other vendors of Web-based application software. We currently compete with e-commerce and marketing vendors such as IBM, RightNow Technologies, Amazon.com, Unica and GSI Commerce. The market for our service products is also rapidly evolving, and intensely competitive. Our suite of service products competes against various vendor software tools designed to address a specific element or elements of the complete set of eService processes, including e-mail management, support, knowledge management, and Web-based customer self-service and assisted service. We also face competition from in-house designed products and third-party custom development efforts. The high level of competition in this market has resulted in pricing pressures, which if such conditions continue or increase, could harm our results of operations. Some of the companies providing advanced natural language self service and traditional service resolution management solutions that may compete with us include eGain, Inquira, Kana, and Knova. In addition, competition may increase as a result of current competitors expanding their product offerings, new companies entering the market, software industry consolidations and formations of alliances among industry participants or with third parties. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements. Also, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that they can use to gain market share. These competitors may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive terms to purchasers than we can. Moreover, our current and potential competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and expand their markets. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Competition could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain revenues from license fees from new or existing customers and professional services revenue from existing customers. Further, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our software products. In either case, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain our existing customer base, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from existing customers that purchase our support and maintenance services and enhanced versions of our products. Retention of our existing customer base requires that we provide high levels of customer service and product support to help our customers maximize the benefits that they derive from our products. To compete, we must introduce enhancements and new versions of our products that provide additional functionality. Further, we must manage the transition from our older products so as to minimize the disruption to our customers caused by such migration and integration with the customers’ information technology platform. If we are unable to continue to obtain significant revenues from our existing customer base, our ability to grow our business would be harmed and our competitors could achieve greater market share. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to address the challenges associated with international operations, revenues from our products and services may decline or the costs of providing our products or services may increase. As of December 31, 2005, we had offices in the United Kingdom, France and Northern Ireland. We derived 24% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005 from customers outside the United States. Our operations outside North America are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in regulatory requirements, exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers; • longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable in Western Europe and the Far East; • difficulties in managing systems integrators and technology partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; • differing technology standards; • difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into foreign languages to the extent that our products are sold in countries that do not have English as their primary language; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some of the countries in which we operate or plan to operate; • difficulties related to entering into legal contracts under local laws and in foreign languages; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results cannot be accurately predicted. We may increase the extent to which we denominate arrangements with international customers in the currencies of the countries in which the software or services are provided. From time to time we may engage in hedges of contracts denominated in foreign currencies. Any hedging policies implemented by us may not be successful, and the cost of these hedging techniques may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Failure by us to comply with the financial covenants in our line of credit or the refusal of our bank to renew this facility, could negatively impact our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we amended our $20.0 million line of credit to extend its expiration date from December 24, 2005 to February 7, 2006. The credit facility required net profitability of at least $1.00 for the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006 we renewed and amended the line of credit, and extended its expiration date until January 31, 2008. This line of credit is secured by all of our tangible and intangible intellectual and personal property and is subject to financial covenants including liquidity coverage and profitability. While there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility at December 31, 2005, our bank had issued letters of credit totaling $6.1 million, which are supported by this facility. The letters of credit have been issued in favor of various landlords to secure obligations pursuant to leases expiring through January 2009. The liquidity covenant in the line of credit mandates that we maintain cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $20 million at the end of each month. The profitability covenant, as amended, requires net profitability of at least $1.00 for the first quarter of 2006 and a net profitability of at least $500,000 for the second quarter of 2006 and for each quarter thereafter. In the event that we do not comply with the financial covenants within the line of credit or default on any of its provisions, the bank’s significant remedies include declaring all obligations immediately due and payable and ceasing to advance money or extend credit for our benefit. 15 Table of Contents Accordingly, if we do not comply with any of the financial covenants in the line of credit or if our line of credit agreement expires, the bank may require the outstanding letters of credit to be cash secured. If the bank required us to secure each outstanding letter of credit on a dollar for dollar basis, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances would decrease substantially and our liquidity could be materially impaired. If systems integrators or value added resellers reduce their support and implementation of our products, our revenues may fail to meet expectations and our operating results would suffer. Since our potential customers often rely on third-party systems integrators to develop, deploy and manage websites for conducting commerce on the Internet, we cultivate relationships with systems integrators to encourage them to support our products. Approximately 42% of our product license revenues in 2005 resulted directly from our relationships with system integrators and value added resellers. We do not, however, have written agreements with our systems integrators, and they are not required to implement solutions that include our products or to maintain minimum sales levels of our products. Our revenues would be reduced if we fail to train a sufficient number of systems integrators adequately or if systems integrators devote their efforts to integrating or co-selling products of other companies. Any such reduction in revenue would not be accompanied by a significant offset in our expenses. As a result, our operating results would suffer and the price of our common stock probably would fall. Competition with our resellers could limit our sales opportunities and jeopardize these relationships. We sell products through resellers. In some instances, we target our direct selling efforts toward markets that are also served by some of these resellers. This competition may limit our ability to sell our products and services directly in these markets and may jeopardize, or result in the termination of, these relationships. If we acquire other companies or businesses, we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business. In addition to our acquisition of Primus, in the future, we may pursue additional acquisitions to obtain complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. Any such acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated, and an acquired business, product, service or technology might not perform as we expected. If we pursue an additional acquisition, our management could spend a significant amount of time and effort in identifying and completing the acquisition. If we complete an additional acquisition, we may encounter significant difficulties and incur substantial expenses in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company into our operations while preserving the goodwill of the acquired company. In particular, we may lose the services of key employees of the acquired company and we may make changes in management that impair the acquired company’s relationships with employees and customers. Any of these outcomes could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of our additional acquisitions. To pay for an acquisition, we might use stock or cash. Alternatively, we might borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use our stock, our stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity would be reduced. We may be required to capitalize a significant amount of intangibles, including goodwill, which may lead to significant amortization charges. In addition, we may incur significant, one-time write offs and amortization charges. These amortization charges and write offs could decrease our future earnings or increase our future losses. We may need additional financing in the future, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, support an expansion, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or respond to unanticipated situations. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to 16 Table of Contents us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to revise our business plan to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, foregoing acquisitions or reducing our product development efforts. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The terms of these securities, as well as any borrowings under our credit agreement, could impose restrictions on our operations. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for Internet online marketing, sales, and service applications, our existing products could become obsolete. The market for our products is marked by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and Internet-related technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands, coalescence of product differentiators, product commoditization and evolving industry standards. We may not be able to develop and market or acquire new products or product enhancements that comply with present or emerging Internet technology standards and to differentiate our products based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances with operating system and infrastructure vendors that will permit migration or upgrade opportunities for our current user base. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. For example, functionality that once differentiated our products over time has been incorporated into products offered by the major operating system and infrastructure providers, as occurred in the case of our application server products, leading to our recent decision to discontinue active marketing of these products. To succeed, we will need to enhance our current products, develop new products on a timely basis to keep pace with developments related to Internet technology and to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers and leverage strategic alliances with third parties in the e-commerce field who have complementary or competing products. E-commerce technology is complex and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. Our software products may contain errors or defects that could result in lost revenues, delayed or limited market acceptance, or product liability claims with substantial litigation costs. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. At the end of the third quarter of we released our Wisdom enabled Service Suite. This is a comprehensive set of Applications that provide a full-featured, adaptively customized environment for managing all forms of customer service interactions with individual attention. Despite internal testing and testing by customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. Serious defects or errors could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance. Since our customers use our products for critical business applications such as e-commerce, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our customers. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time consuming and costly. Our software offerings under our agreements with IBM and JBoss may not achieve market acceptance, which may harm our business and operating results. We have entered into original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, agreements with IBM and JBoss, Inc., under which we have agreed to offer IBM’s WebSphere Internet infrastructure software and JBoss’ application server products, respectively as part of packaged software offerings. Market acceptance of these 17 Table of Contents relationships is subject to a number of significant risks, many of which are outside our control. These risks include: • Our packaged software offerings must meet the requirements of our current and prospective clients. We are working with IBM and JBoss to further integrate our applications to optimize their performance while running on IBM WebSphere and JBoss, but we cannot assure you that our integration efforts will satisfy the needs of current and prospective customers. • IBM and JBoss may determine not to devote significant resources to the arrangements contemplated by our OEM agreements or may disagree with us as to how to proceed with the integration of our products, may not choose not to renew our agreements. The amount and timing of resources dedicated by IBM and JBoss under the OEM agreements are not under our direct control. • Our arrangements with IBM and JBoss may cause confusion among current and prospective customers as to our product focus and direction. If our relationships with IBM and JBoss do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results may be harmed. Our announced restructurings may not result in the reduced cost structure we anticipate and may have other adverse impacts on productivity. During 2005, we incurred a net restructuring charge of $885,000, primarily due to a $1.8 million charge related to the relocation of our San Francisco office, offset by net reversals of $932,000 due to changes in estimates of prior restructuring charges. At the end of 2004, we initiated a plan to effect a worldwide headcount reduction and a reduction in the amount of space we occupy in our headquarters facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The 2004 action resulted in a net restructuring charge of $3.6 million, which included costs of employee severance and lease costs associated with vacated premises. During 2003, we had corporate restructurings involving workforce reductions and closures of excess facilities. In addition, there were changes in assumptions and estimates connected to prior restructuring charges and the leases that were settled during the period. These actions and changes in estimates of previous restructuring charges resulted in a net restructuring benefit of $10.5 million during 2003. In January 2003, we publicly announced a corporate restructuring involving a workforce reduction and the closing and consolidation of office facilities in selected locations. These actions resulted in recording a restructuring charge of $19.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. In addition, we recorded restructuring charges of $75.6 million in 2001. The outcomes of such restructuring activities are difficult to predict. While we believe our restructuring and consolidation activities will reduce our cost structure, we may not achieve the cost reductions that we are expecting. In addition, our restructuring activities may result in lower revenues as a result of the decreased staff in our sales and marketing and professional services groups or other adverse impacts on productivity that we did not anticipate. The loss of technology licensed from third parties could delay our ability to deliver our products. We rely in part on technology that we license from third parties, which is integrated into our internally developed software. Third-party technology licenses might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of any significant technology license could cause delays in our ability to deliver our products or services until equivalent technology is developed internally or equivalent third-party technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. We use the Java programming language to develop our products, and our business could be harmed if Java loses market acceptance or if we are not able to continue using Java or Java-related technologies. We write our software in the Java computer programming language developed by Sun Microsystems and we incorporate Sun’s Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition, or J2EE, and Sun’s Java Runtime Environment, 18 Table of Contents Java Naming and Directory Interface, Java Servlet Development Kit, Java Foundation Classes, JavaMail and JavaBeans Activation Framework into our products under licenses granted to us by Sun. Our Version 7 ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine has been designed to support Sun’s J2EE standards. If Sun were to decline to continue to allow us to use these technologies for any reason, we would be required to either license the equivalent technology from another source, create equivalent technology ourselves, or rewrite portions of our software to accommodate the change. While a number of companies have introduced Web applications based on Java, Java could fall out of favor, and support by Sun Microsystems or other companies could decline. Moreover, our new Version 7 ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine is designed to support J2EE standards for developing modular Java programs that can be accessed over a network. We have licensed the J2EE brand and certification tests from Sun. There can be no assurance that these standards will be widely adopted, that we can continue to support J2EE standards established by Sun from time to time or that the J2EE brand will continue to be made available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If Java or J2EE support decreased or we could not continue to use Java or related Java technologies or to support J2EE, we might have to rewrite the source code for our entire product line to enable our products to run on other computer platforms. Also, changes to Java or J2EE standards or the loss of our license to the J2EE brand could require us to change our products and adversely affect the perception of our products by our customers. If we were unable to develop or implement appropriate modifications to our products on a timely basis, we could lose revenue opportunities and our business could be harmed. Risks Related To the Internet Industry Our performance will depend on the growth of e-commerce and self-service. Our success will depend heavily on the continued use of the Internet for e-commerce. If the market for our products and services fails to mature, we will be unable to execute our business plan. Adoption of electronic commerce and online marketing, sales and service applications, particularly by those companies that have historically relied upon traditional means of commerce, requires a broad acceptance of different methods of conducting business. Our future revenues and profits will substantially depend on the Internet continuing to be accepted and widely used for commerce and communication. If Internet commerce does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than expected, our future revenues and profits may not meet our expectations or those of analysts. Similarly, purchasers with established patterns of commerce may be reluctant to alter those patterns or may otherwise resist providing the personal data necessary to support our consumer profiling capability. Regulations could be enacted that either directly restrict our business or indirectly affect our business by limiting the growth of e-commerce. As e-commerce evolves, federal, state and foreign agencies could adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, content and taxation of products and services. If enacted, government regulations could limit the market for our products and services or could impose burdensome requirements that render our business unprofitable. Although many regulations might not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could indirectly affect our business. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in e-commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of e-commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in Web usage and decrease its acceptance as a medium of communications and commerce. 19 Table of Contents The Internet is generating privacy concerns that could result in legislation or market perceptions that could harm our business or result in reduced sales of our products, or both. Businesses use our ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product to develop and maintain profiles to tailor the content to be provided to website visitors. When a visitor first arrives at a website, our software creates a profile for that visitor. If the visitor registers or logs in, the visitor’s identity is added to the profile, preserving any profile information that was gathered up to that point. ATG Adaptive Scenario Engine product tracks both explicit user profile data supplied by the user as well as implicit profile attributes derived from the user’s behavior on the website. Privacy concerns may cause visitors to resist providing the personal data or to avoid websites that track the Web behavioral information necessary to support our profiling capability. More importantly, even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used to direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Other countries and political entities, such as the European Economic Community, have adopted such legislation or regulatory requirements. The United States may adopt similar legislation or regulatory requirements. If privacy legislation is enacted or consumer privacy concerns are not adequately addressed, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Our products use “cookies” to track demographic information and user preferences. A “cookie” is information keyed to a specific user that is stored on a computer’s hard drive, typically without the user’s knowledge. Cookies are generally removable by the user, although removal could affect the content available on a particular site. Germany has imposed laws limiting the use of cookies, and a number of Internet commentators and governmental bodies in the United States and other countries have urged passage of laws limiting or abolishing the use of cookies. If such laws are passed or if users begin to delete or refuse cookies as a common practice, demand for our personalization products could be reduced. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Our Stock Our common stock price may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. For example, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.58 per share to $126.88 per share since our initial public offering in July 1999 and has ranged from $0.92 per share to $2.13 per share between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of Internet and software companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors among others, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in market valuations of Internet and software companies; • our announcement of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • timing of completion of significant sales; • additions or departures of our key personnel; • future sales of our common stock; or • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation. We currently are the subject of securities class action litigation. In addition, our Primus subsidiary is also subject to a securities class action litigation. If a court awards damages to the plaintiffs in these cases, the total amount could exceed the limit of our existing insurance. These litigations also may divert management’s attention and resources. For a further description of the pending litigation, see “Part II, Item 1. Legal 20 Table of Contents Proceedings.” We may be the target of similar litigation in the future if the market for our stock becomes volatile. While we believe that we have an appropriate amount of insurance for class action lawsuits, we cannot be certain that the insurance coverage will be available or, if available, sufficient to cover our liability with respect to a specific future action that may be brought. Our common stock may not continue to trade on the Nasdaq National Market, which could reduce the value of your investment and make your shares more difficult to sell. For our common stock to trade on the Nasdaq National Market, we must continue to meet the listing standards of that market. Among other things, those standards require that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. As recently as October 2005, our common stock has traded at prices near and below $1.00. If we do not continue to meet Nasdaq’s applicable minimum listing standards, Nasdaq could delist us from the Nasdaq National Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, we could seek to have our common stock listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. However, delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market could hinder your ability to sell, or obtain an accurate quotation for the price of, your shares of our common stock. Delisting could also adversely affect the perception among investors of ATG and its prospects, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock. Delisting would also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital. In addition, delisting might subject us to an SEC rule that could adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock, thus hindering your ability to sell your shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Certain provisions of our charter and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • providing that directors may only be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of stockholders; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders and prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • authorizing anti-takeover provisions. In addition, we adopted a shareholder rights plan in 2001 and Delaware law may further discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. The regulatory environment surrounding accounting and corporate governance subjects us to certain legal uncertainties in the operation of our business and may increase the cost of doing business. We are facing increased regulatory scrutiny associated with the highly publicized financial scandals and the various accounting and corporate governance rules promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Our management will continue to review and monitor all of the accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies under the new legislation, including those related to relationships with our independent auditors, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and executive officer loan practices, and intend to fully comply with such laws. Nevertheless, such increased scrutiny and penalties involve risks to both the Company 21 Table of Contents and its executive officers and directors in monitoring and ensuring compliance. A failure to properly navigate the legal disclosure environment and implement and enforce appropriate policies and procedures could harm the Company’s business and prospects, including its ability to recruit and retain skilled officers and directors. In addition, it may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the Securities Exchange Commission, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. It also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We are incurring significant costs to comply with changing laws and we may in the future need to report significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our Annual Report, which could affect our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls and that our independent auditors must report on management’s evaluation of those controls. Management’s evaluation and the auditor’s report thereon is included in Item 9A of this Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that there will not in the future be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that would be required to be reported. A negative reaction by the equity markets to the reporting of a significant deficiency or material weakness could cause our stock price to decline. We are also spending an increased amount of management time and focus as well as external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. This has caused us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. These additional expenses could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our stock could suffer as a result. In addition, if in the future we acquire companies with weak internal controls, it will take time to get the internal controls of the acquired company up to the same level of operating effectiveness as ours. Our inability to address these risks could negatively affect our operating results. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to comply with covenants in our credit facility. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, we are required to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes, effective for our 2006 fiscal year. Such stock option expensing will require us to value our employee stock option grants pursuant to an option valuation formula and amortize that value against our earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. We currently account for stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and have used the disclosure-only alternative of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. We estimate the adoption of this accounting principle will affect our reported results of operations by at least $3.0 million to $4.0 million in 2006 as the stock-based compensation expense is charged directly against our reported earnings. This estimate is based on our current level of employees and related unvested stock options, expected level of employees and stock options to be granted in 2006, and participation in our employee stock purchase plan in 2006. For pro forma disclosure illustrating the effect such a change on our recent results of operations, see Note 1(m) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The adoption of SFAS 123R could adversely affect our ability to comply with the profitability covenants of our credit facility with our bank. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 