ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of risks we believe to be significant with respect to our business, operations, financial condition, and other matters pertaining to an investment in our common stock. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results of operations have shown significant fluctuations over the past several years, which could impact the resources we have to pursue our business and adversely affect an investment in UCN. Our net loss applicable to common stockholders was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to $8.1 million and $2.8 million for the same period in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Continued losses will diminish the working capital we have available to pursue development of our Network Application Provider business. Much of the loss is attributable to our decision to spend substantial amounts in developing and marketing our inContact suite of services. Sales continue to improve, but we have not achieved positive operating results in this segment and whether UCN will ultimately achieve positive results and cash flow from this segment should be considered a substantial risk with respect to our business. We have little history marketing the inContact and Intelligent-T products; therefore we are unable to determine whether we will be successful in penetrating the market. UCN has expended significant time and resources in acquiring and developing its VoIP Network and the contact management software embodied in inContact and Intelligent-T. We refine our product offerings and marketing efforts on an ongoing basis. It is too soon to tell how successful we will be in achieving meaningful market penetration at a level that will enable us to recoup our investment and improve our results of operations in future periods. If we have poor or mediocre results from marketing these new products, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing clients, attract new clients and satisfy our clients’ requirements; • changes in the mix of revenue between our segments because the overall operating margin is significantly higher for the inContact Segment than for the Telecom Segment; • the timing and success of new product introductions or product initiation by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. Because the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our solutions is variable based on the specific customer needs, we may experience a delay between increasing operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our budgeted expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Declines in our results of operations increases the risk of breaching financial covenants in our revolving credit facility, which could result in a default and accelerate maturity of the loan thereby depleting our working capital and likely making it impossible for us to fund our operations. Our results of operations and resulting cash flow have shown significant fluctuations over the past several years. We have established a revolving credit facility under which we borrow against eligible receivables to fund our current working capital requirements. The revolving credit facility imposes certain financial covenants, including: 1) varying quarterly EBITDA targets (a non-GAAP measure that is defined specifically in the agreement; 2) an annual limit on capital expenditures of $3.2 million for all years after 2007, which includes a cap of $1.2 million in capitalized research and development costs and $2.0 million of all other capital expenditures and payments under newly acquired capital leases; and 3) a requirement to maintain a combined minimum of $3.0 million of cash and availability under the revolving credit facility. Poor performance in our results of operations and cash flow in subsequent periods could result in a default in our financial covenants under the revolving credit facility, which would entitle the lender to suspend making further advances and accelerate maturity of the loan. Such an event would substantially deplete working capital available to fund our current operations and make it difficult for us to continue operating. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the pricing decisions of our competitors and our providers. We may not be able to mitigate this impact with our other services. Our costs of revenues from period to period are affected by the pricing for long distance service we can obtain from the wholesale providers of these services. We must price our services at levels that are competitive in the marketplace so costs of revenues affect the rates we offer to customers and our resulting revenues. This industry has a history of downward pressure on long distance service rates as a result of competition among providers. To acquire and retain customers, we offer these services at prices that are competitive in conjunction with the other benefits we provide. Consequently, falling prices will likely result in lowering our rates to customers, which will reduce revenues. On the other hand, higher prices charged by our providers will increase our costs of revenues and cut into operating results, unless we raise prices to our customers, which may be difficult for us to do if our competitors are not subject to the same upward pricing pressures or chose not to increase prices notwithstanding such pressure. To make up for potential reductions in either revenues or overall operating results, we have moved to being a Network Application Provider of enhanced connectivity and call management services, which are not subject to rate changes and have much higher and stable margins. The Network Application Provider services we offer still make up a relatively small portion of our revenues. We may not be successful in making these new services a major component of our revenue mix and improve our overall operating margins. 15 Table of Contents Disruptions in the operation of our technology could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent on our computer databases, billing and accounting computer programs, Internet protocol network, and computer hardware that houses these systems to effectively operate our business and market our services. Our customers and providers may become dissatisfied by any system failures that interrupt our ability to provide our service to them. Substantial or repeated system failures would significantly reduce the attractiveness of our services. Significant disruption in the operation of these systems would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our enhanced services are dependent on leased telecommunications lines, and a significant disruption or change in these services could adversely affect our business. The enhanced services we offer, such as automatic call distribution, fax to email, real time account management, and the inContact family of products, are provided to customers through a dedicated network of equipment we own connected through leased telecommunications lines with capacity dedicated to us that is based on Internet protocol. Communication initiated by the customer is converted to data packs that are transmitted through the dedicated network and managed by our software that resides on our equipment attached to the network. We also move a portion of our voice long distance service over this dedicated network because it lowers our cost of providing the service from using traditional transmission methods. We lease telecommunication lines and space at co-location facilities for our equipment, which represents the backbone of our dedicated network, from third party suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable or unwilling to provide or expand their current levels of service to us, the services we offer to customers would be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain substitute services from other providers at reasonable or comparable prices or in a timely fashion. Any resulting disruptions in the services we offer that are provided over our dedicated network would likely result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, pricing increases by any of the suppliers we rely on for the dedicated network could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass pricing increases through to our customers. Our business could be materially harmed if our computer systems were damaged. Substantially all of our dedicated network systems are located at two locations in Los Angeles and Dallas. Our customer service, billing, and service management systems are located at a third-party hosting co-location facility located in Utah. Fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins, human error, or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our systems. Accordingly, any significant systems disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If there are interruptions or delays in our hosting services through third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients and subject us to liability. We provide our hosting services through computer hardware that we own and that is currently located in third-party web hosting co-location facilities maintained and operated in California and Texas. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our hosting providers, and providers do not guarantee that our clients’ access to hosted solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on our providers’ ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Our back-up computer hardware and systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring simultaneously at all facilities. In the event that our hosting facility arrangements were terminated, or there was a lapse of service or accidental or willful damage to such facilities, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our hosting service as well as delays and/or additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Any or all of these events could cause our clients to lose access to their important data. In addition, the failure by our third-party hosting facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause clients to fail to continue service, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. 16 Table of Contents If the security of our clients’ confidential information contained in our systems or stored by use of our software is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our hosting service or our software may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our hosting service and our solutions. Our hosting systems and our software store and transmit proprietary information and critical data belonging to our clients and their customers. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to a risk of information loss, litigation and other possible liabilities. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our clients’ data, our relationships with clients and our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting co-location facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to protect this confidential information could result in liability. If third parties succeed in penetrating our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customer information, we could be subject to liability. Our liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card or banking information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, as well as for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation and adverse publicity, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, and results of operations. Our growth and results of operations are unknown, which means an investment in us has greater risk. UCN experienced significant growth beginning in 2003, primarily through the purchase of customer accounts and internal growth. Continuing with the acquisitions of BenchmarkPortal, Inc. and ScheduleQ, LLC in 2007 and the Transtel Communications assets and MyACD, Inc. in 2005, we have substantially increased our operations and revenues. It is not possible to predict with any certainty the growth of our business over the next year, whether internally or through acquisitions. Our ability to continue our growth and improve upon results of operations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to promote and gain market acceptance of our Network Application Provider services, to maintain and expand our independent agent network, to fund purchases of customers or acquisitions, to meet existing and emerging competition, and to maintain sufficient operating margins despite pricing pressures. Furthermore, the growth and development of our business may be harmed if we are unable to adapt and expand our systems, procedures, and controls to support and manage our growth. All of these factors indicate there could be fluctuations in our results of operations and volatility in our stock price that could expose an investor to greater risk. Our inability to promote our name and service could adversely affect the development of our business. Building recognition of our selected service and brand names is beneficial to attracting additional customers, obtaining favorable reseller agreements with providers of long distance and establishing strategic relationships with independent agents and businesses that can facilitate or enhance our service offerings and marketing efforts. Our failure to successfully establish, protect, promote, and maintain our service and brand names may result in slowed growth, loss of customers, loss of market share, and loss of strategic relationships. We may not be able to establish and promote our service and brand names as fully as we would like, which will affect the way we promote our service and brand name to enable us to be more competitive or improve our results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, patents and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. We may not be able to obtain any further patents or trademarks, and our pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents or trademarks. Any of our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights or could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those 17 Table of Contents patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could diminish international sales or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our development of enhanced services could subject us to claims of patent infringement that would adversely affect our results of operations. We offer enhanced telecommunications and related software services through our dedicated network. Certain enhanced services similar to some of the services we offer have been the subject of claims by certain patent holders that providing the enhanced services violates existing patent rights covering the manner and method by which the services are performed. We may not be aware of claims that have arisen alleging enhanced services we offer infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Infringement of intellectual property rights would have an adverse impact on the net revenue generated from sales of the enhanced services. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation will be harmed, our market share would decline and we could be subject to product liability claims. Our software products may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures, slow response times, or otherwise cause our products to fail to perform in accordance with client expectations. Because our clients use our products for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our products could hurt our reputation and may damage our clients’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales, or our existing clients could elect to not renew or to delay or withhold payment to us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable. Clients also may make warranty claims against us, which could result in the expense and risk of litigation. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our products fails to perform or contains a technical defect, a client may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for the product failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such product liability claims. Also, our insurer may disclaim coverage. Our liability insurance also may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any product liability claims successfully brought against us would cause our business to suffer. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our client base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force and engage additional third-party channel partners. This expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if we are unable to hire and develop talented direct sales personnel, if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our third-party channel partners if we are unable to attract and retain additional motivated channel partners, if any existing or future channel partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our solutions for their customers, or if they represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services. Regulation of IP telephony services is unclear, so the imposition of significant regulation in the future could adversely affect our operations. We deliver our enhanced services and move other long distance service through our VoIP Network. At both the Federal and state level, proceedings and investigations are pending with respect to whether IP-enabled voice communications are telecommunications services subject to Federal and state regulation. A determination that such services are subject to 18 Table of Contents regulation would likely increase the cost of services we provide, which would adversely affect our results of operations. It is unknown whether Federal or state governments will not impose regulation on IP-enabled communications in the future that would add substantially to our costs of doing business. The required adoption of SFAS 123(R) makes stock options a less attractive form of employee compensation and our use of alternative forms of employee compensation in response to SFAS 123R could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain personnel. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation because, we believe it aligns employees’ interests with our stockholders’ interest, encourages employee retention, and provides a competitive component of our overall compensation program. Due to the required adoption of SFAS 123(R), and the recording of stock option expense on our operating statements, we may determine that it is in our best interest to reduce the number or size of our stock-based awards, or change the type of awards granted. In doing so, we will not have the same flexibility in fashioning compensation packages as we had before SFAS-123(R), which could impair our efforts to attract, retain and motivate our employees. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We may require additional capital to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures and acquire complementary businesses, products and technologies. Absent sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds to meet our operating and capital needs. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital, to pay dividends and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. As of December 31, 2006, we have 25,385,031 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 17,806,398 shares may be sold in the public market without restriction, and the balance of 7,578,633 shares may be sold subject to the volume, timing, and other conditions of Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933. We have outstanding warrants, options and a convertible note to acquire a total of 5,412,243 additional shares that are registered for sale by the holders in the public market under current registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Assuming all these warrants, options, and rights are exercised, there would be 30,797,274 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We have also reserved for future issuance 1,323,183 additional shares of common stock as follows: • Up to 323,183 shares reserved for issuance under our Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan; and • Up to 1,000,000 shares reserved for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, which could adversely affect an investment in our stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. On the other hand, should the value or market price of our stock rise the holders of these outstanding warrants, options, and convertible securities have the opportunity to profit, and to exercise purchase or conversion rights at a time when we could obtain equity capital on more favorable terms than those contained in these securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 19 Table of Contents 