Item 1A. Risk Factors We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological advances and the demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors range from large international companies to relatively small firms. Some of the large international companies have significant financial resources and compete with us globally to provide document processing products and services in each of the markets we serve. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and 10 customer service and support. Our success in future performance is largely dependent upon our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to expand into additional market segments. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, services, and applications and periodically enhance our existing offerings. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We need to develop and expand the use of color printing and copying. Increasing the proportion of pages which are printed in color and transitioning color pages currently produced on offset devices to Xerox technology represent key growth opportunities. A significant part of our strategy and ultimate success in this changing market is our ability to develop and market technology that produces color prints and copies quickly, easily, with high quality and at reduced cost. Our continuing success in this strategy depends on our ability to make the investments and commit the necessary resources in this highly competitive market, as well as the pace of color adoption by our existing and prospective customers. If we are unable to develop and market advanced and competitive color technologies or the pace of color adoption by our existing and prospective customers is less than anticipated, we may be unable to capture these opportunities and it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to successfully develop new products and technologies, we may be unable to retain and gain customers and our revenues would be reduced. The process of developing new high technology products and solutions is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. We also must ensure that all of our products comply with existing and newly enacted applicable regulatory requirements in the countries in which they are sold, particularly European Union environmental directives. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers’ needs through the development of new products or if our new products are not widely accepted or if our current or future products fail to meet applicable worldwide regulatory requirements, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services which provides a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from previous levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since 2000, we have engaged in a series of restructuring programs related to downsizing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, outsourcing some internal functions and engaging in other actions designed to reduce our cost structure. If we are unable to continue to maintain our cost base at or below the current level and maintain process and systems changes resulting from the restructuring actions, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to sustain and improve profit margins is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to improve the cost efficiency of our operations through such programs as Lean Six Sigma, pricing pressures on our products and services, the proportion of our equipment sales to high-end as opposed to low-end equipment, the trend in our post-sale revenue growth, and, our ability to successfully complete information technology initiatives. If any of these factors adversely materialize or if we are unable to achieve productivity 11 improvements through design efficiency, supplier and manufacturing cost improvements and information technology initiatives, our ability to offset labor cost inflation, potential materials cost increases and competitive price pressures would be impaired, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our current credit ratings result in higher borrowing costs, which in turn may affect our ability to fund our customer financing activities at economically competitive levels. The long-term viability and profitability of our customer financing activities is dependent, in part, on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets. This ability and cost, in turn, is dependent on our credit ratings. Our access to the public debt markets could be limited to the non-investment grade segment, which results in higher borrowing costs, until our credit ratings have been restored to investment grade. We are currently funding our customer financing activity through a combination of capital market offerings, third-party funding arrangements, including General Electric (“GE”), Merrill Lynch, and De Lage Landen Bank, cash generated from operations, cash on hand, other secured and unsecured borrowings. Our ability to continue to offer customer financing and be successful in the placement of equipment with customers is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to continue to offer customer financing, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have outsourced approximately half of our overall world manufacturing operations and face the risks associated with relying on third party manufacturers and external suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing operations to third parties and various service providers. To the extent that we rely on third party manufacturing relationships, we face the risk that those manufacturers may not be able to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products, they may not be able to quickly respond to changes in customer demand for our products, they may not be able to obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process, they may experience labor shortages and/or disruptions, manufacturing costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could decline. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming similar third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established, we could experience an interruption in supply or an increase in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage our relationships with our customers, and reduce our market share, all of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by economic conditions abroad, including fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes. Approximately half of our revenue is generated from operations outside the United States. In addition, we manufacture or acquire many of our products and/or their components from, and maintain significant operations, outside the United States. Our future revenues, costs and results of operations could be significantly affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as by a number of other factors, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements local tax issues, capitalization and other related legal matters. We generally hedge foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions primarily through the use of currency derivative contracts. The use of derivative contracts is intended to mitigate or reduce transactional level volatility in the results of foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate volatility. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses, which are denominated in currencies other than our U.S. parent functional currency, within our consolidated financial statements. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by revenue trends. Our ability to return to and maintain a consistent trend of revenue growth over the intermediate to longer term is largely dependent upon expansion of our worldwide equipment placements, as well as sales of services and supplies occurring after the initial equipment placement (post sale revenue) in the key growth markets of digital printing, color and multifunction systems. We expect that revenue growth can be further enhanced 12 through our document management and consulting services in the areas of personalized and product life cycle communications, office and production services and document content and imaging. The ability to achieve growth in our equipment placements is subject to the successful implementation of our initiatives to provide advanced systems, industry-oriented global solutions and services for major customers, improve direct sales productivity and expand our indirect distribution channels in our developing markets operations and other geographic areas in the face of global competition and pricing pressures. Our ability to increase post sale revenue is largely dependent on our ability to increase the volume of pages printed, the mix of color pages, equipment utilization and color adoption. Equipment placements typically occur through leases with original terms of three to five years. There will be a lag between the increase in equipment placement and an increase in post sale revenues. The ability to grow our customers’ usage of our products may continue to be adversely impacted by the movement toward distributed printing and electronic substitutes and the impact of lower equipment placements in prior periods. If we are unable to return to and maintain a consistent trend of revenue growth, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and pose challenges for conducting our business. We have and will continue to have a substantial amount of debt and other obligations, primarily to support our customer financing activities. As of December 31, 2005, we had $7.3 billion of total debt ($3.0 billion of which is secured by finance receivables) and $724 million of liabilities to trusts issuing preferred securities, which includes $98 million recorded as a component of Other current liabilities. The total value of financing activities, shown on the balance sheet as Finance Receivables and On-Lease equipment, was $8.3 billion at December 31, 2005. The total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance was $1.6 billion at December 31, 2005. Our substantial debt and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; (iii) increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt has variable interest rates; (iv) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to service debt and other obligations thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations for other purposes; (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and (vii) become due and payable upon a change in control. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase. We need to maintain adequate liquidity in order to have sufficient cash to meet operating cash flow requirements and to repay maturing debt and other obligations. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various borrowing agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our liquidity is a function of our ability to successfully generate cash flows from a combination of efficient operations and improvements therein, funding from third parties, access to capital markets, securitizations and secured borrowings for our finance receivables portfolios. With $1.6 billion of total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2005, borrowing capacity under our 2003 Credit Facility of approximately $700 million and funding available through our customer financing arrangements, we believe our liquidity (including operating and other cash flows that we expect to generate) will be sufficient to meet operating requirements as they occur and to satisfy all scheduled debt maturities for at least the next twelve months; however, our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity going forward depends on our ability to generate cash from operations and access to the capital markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other market factors that are beyond our control. The 2003 Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants including limitations on: issuance of debt and preferred stock; investments and acquisitions; mergers; certain transactions with affiliates; creation of liens; asset transfers; hedging transactions; payment of dividends and certain other payments and intercompany 13 loans. The 2003 Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants, including minimum EBITDA, as defined, maximum leverage (total adjusted debt divided by EBITDA), annual maximum capital expenditures limits and minimum consolidated net worth, as defined. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain similar covenants. They do not, however, contain any financial maintenance covenants, except the fixed charge coverage ratio applicable to certain types of payments. Our U.S. Loan Agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation (“GECC”) (effective through 2010) relating to our customer financing program (the “Loan Agreement”) provides for secured loans up to $5 billion outstanding at any time. As of December 31, 2005, $2.5 billion was outstanding under the Loan Agreement, including similar loan agreements with GE in the U.K. and Canada. These agreements incorporate the financial maintenance covenants contained in the 2003 Credit Facility and contains other affirmative and negative covenants. At December 31, 2005, we were in full compliance with the covenants and other provisions of the 2003 Credit Facility, the senior notes and the Loan Agreement and expect to remain in full compliance for at least the next twelve months. Any failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of the 2003 Credit Facility or the senior notes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to be in compliance with the covenants in the Loan Agreement, including the financial maintenance covenants incorporated from the 2003 Credit Facility, would result in an event of termination under the Loan Agreement and in such case GECC would not be required to make further loans to us. If GECC were to make no further loans to us, and assuming a similar facility was not established and that we were unable to obtain replacement financing in the public debt markets, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund our customers’ purchases of our equipment and this could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by legal and regulatory matters. We have various contingent liabilities that are not reflected on our balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning securities law, intellectual property law, environmental law, employment law and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”), as discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. We assess potential liability by analyzing our litigation and regulatory matters using available information. We develop our views on estimated losses in consultation with legal counsel handling our defense in these matters, which involves an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Should developments in any of our legal matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Our operations are subject to environmental regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Some of our manufacturing operations use, and some of our products contain, substances that are regulated in various jurisdictions. The European Union Directive known as the Restriction on the Use of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”), for example, requires the removal of lead, cadmium and certain other substances from product designs put on the market in the European Union beginning in July 2006. We do not expect the RoHS directive to have a material impact on our product lines. If we do not comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use of such substances and the sale of products containing such substances, then we could be subject to liability and could be prevented from selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we could also face substantial costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. Beginning in 2005, we became subject to the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) as enacted by individual European Union countries (“WEEE Legislation”), which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered 14 products. We continue to evaluate the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by WEEE Legislation. If we are unable to collect, recycle, treat and dispose of our products in a cost-effective manner and in accordance with applicable country WEEE Legislation, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 