Item 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and throughout this report, which could materially affect our business. There are also risks that are not presently known or not presently material, as well as the other information set forth in this report that could materially affect our business. In addition, in our periodic filings with the SEC, press releases and other statements, we discuss estimates and projections regarding our future performance and business outlook. By their nature, such “forward-looking statements” involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. For a further discussion of forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our present expectations and projections. These risk factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS An adverse development regarding our products could have a material and adverse impact on our future revenues and profitability. A number of factors may impact the effectiveness of our marketing and sales activities and the demand for our products, including: • The prices of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments; • Any unfavorable publicity concerning us, our products, or the markets for these products such as information concerning product contamination or other safety issues in either of our product markets, whether or not directly involving our products; • Perception by physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the safety or efficacy of our products or competing products; • Regulatory developments related to our marketing and promotional practices or the manufacture or continued use of our products; • The inability of the orphan drug designation of Acetadote (under which the FDA granted seven years marketing exclusivity for intravenous treatment of moderate to severe acetaminophen overdose) to prevent development and marketing of a different product that competes with Acetadote; • Changes in intellectual property protection available for our products or competing treatments; • The availability and level of third-party reimbursement for sales of our products; and • The continued availability of adequate supplies of our products to meet demand. If demand for our products weaken, our revenues and profitability will likely decline. Known adverse effects of our marketed products are documented in product labeling, including the product package inserts, medical information disclosed to medical professionals and all marketing-related materials. At this time, no unforeseen or serious adverse effects outside of those specified in current product labeling have been directly attributed to our approved products. 17 Table of Contents If any manufacturer we rely upon fails to produce our products in the amounts we require on a timely basis, or fails to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture any of our products, and we do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of products could adversely affect our profit margins or our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to sell our products as planned. Furthermore, if we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers in producing our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products could be adversely affected. Caldolor is manufactured at Hospira Australia Pty. Ltd.’s facility in Australia and Bayer’s facility in Kansas. Acetadote is manufactured primarily at a facility in Ireland and Bayer’s manufacturing plant in Kansas is an alternative manufacturing source for Acetadote. The active pharmaceutical ingredient for Kristalose is manufactured at a single facility in Italy. If any one of these facilities is damaged or destroyed, or if local conditions result in a work stoppage, we could suffer an inability to meet demand for our products. Kristalose is manufactured through a complex process involving trade secrets of the manufacturer; therefore, it would be particularly difficult to find a new manufacturer of Kristalose on an expedited basis. As a result of these factors, our ability to manufacture Kristalose may be substantially impaired if the manufacturer is unable or unwilling to supply sufficient quantities of the product. In addition, all manufacturers of our products and product candidates must comply with current good manufacturing practices, referred to as cGMP, enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have no control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If our third-party manufacturers do not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to: • fines and civil penalties; • suspension of production or distribution; • suspension or delay in product approval; • product seizure or recall; and • withdrawal of product approval. We are dependent on a variety of other third parties. If these third parties fail to perform as we expect, our operations could be disrupted and our financial results could suffer. We have a relatively small internal infrastructure. We rely on a variety of third parties, other than our third-party manufacturers, to help us operate our business. Other third parties on which we rely include: • Cardinal Health Specialty Pharmaceutical Services, a logistics and fulfillment company and business unit of Cardinal, which warehouses and ships our marketed products; • Ventiv Commercial Services, LLC, which provides a field sales force that is the primary selling team for Kristalose; and • Vanderbilt University and the Tennessee Technology Development Corporation, co-owners with us of CET, and the universities that collaborate with us in connection with CET’s research and development programs. If these third parties do not continue to provide services to us, or collaborate with us, we might not be able to obtain others who can serve these functions. This could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating expenses or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. 18 Table of Contents Competitive pressures could reduce our revenues and profits. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive. Our strategy is to target differentiated products in specialized markets. However, this strategy does not relieve us from competitive pressures, and can entail distinct competitive risks. Certain of our competitors do not aggressively promote their products in our markets. An increase in promotional activity in our markets could result in large shifts in market share, adversely affecting us. Our competitors may sell or develop drugs that are more effective and useful and less costly than ours, and they may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Additional competitors may enter our markets. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by constant and significant investment in new product development, which can result in rapid technological change. The introduction of new products could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products tend to decline as competition increases, through new product introduction or otherwise, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Governmental and private health care payors have recently emphasized substitution of branded pharmaceuticals with less expensive generic equivalents. An increase in the sales of generic pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in revenues of branded pharmaceuticals. While there are no generic equivalents competing with our products at this time, in the future we could face generic competition. The commercial launch of Caldolor is subject to many internal and external challenges and if we cannot overcome these challenges in a timely manner, our future revenues and profits could be materially and adversely impacted. Caldolor represents a substantial portion of our future growth. Caldolor was approved by the FDA in June 2009, and we started commercializing Caldolor in the United States in September 2009. The commercial success of Caldolor is dependent on many third-parties, including physicians, pharmacists, hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees, or P&T committees, suppliers and distributors, all of whom we have little or no control over. We expect Caldolor to be administered primarily to hospitalized patients who are unable to receive oral therapies for the treatment of pain or fever. Before we can distribute Caldolor to any new hospital customers, Caldolor must be approved for addition to the hospitals’ formulary lists by their P&T committees. A hospital’s P&T committee generally governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including review of medication formulary data and recommendations of drugs to the medical staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in getting the approvals we need from enough P&T committees to be able to optimize hospital sales of Caldolor. Even if we obtain hospital approval for Caldolor, we must still convince individual hospital physicians to prescribe Caldolor repeatedly. Because Caldolor is a new drug with little track record, any mistakes made in the timely supply of Caldolor, education about how to properly administer Caldolor or any unexpected side effects that develop from use of the drug, may lead physicians to not accept Caldolor as a viable treatment alternative. In addition to the extensive external efforts required, the commercial success of Caldolor also depends on our ability to coordinate supply, distribution, marketing, sales and education efforts. Internally, the successful commercialization of Caldolor depends on our ability to maintain a well-trained, qualified sales force, to equip our sales force with effective supportive materials, to target appropriate markets and to accurately price Caldolor. As of March 1, 2010, our hospital sales force was comprised of 76 representatives and managers. In addition, as Caldolor is a newly marketed drug, our sales force will need to be credible and persuasive in order to convince physicians and pharmacists in target markets to use Caldolor. If we are unable to provide our sales force with convincing supportive materials, such as clinical papers, sales literature and formulary kits, they may not be able to sell Caldolor in sufficient quantities. We must also target the right hospitals across the United States. Any failure in sales force coverage could limit our ability to generate market acceptance for Caldolor. We also have set a price for Caldolor that we believe hospitals and other purchasers are willing to pay, but that will also generate sufficient profits. If we have set a price for Caldolor that hospitals consider too high, we may need to subsequently reduce the price for Caldolor. If we have set the initial price for Caldolor too low, we may not generate adequate profits and may not be able to raise the price of the drug in the future. 19 Table of Contents Any attempt by us to expand the potential market for Caldolor is subject to limitations. In its June 2009 Caldolor approval letter, the FDA required us to conduct two additional Phase IV pediatric studies by 2011 and 2012, respectively. If the results of these Phase IV clinical studies are not favorable, we may not be able to expand the market for Caldolor to children ages 1-16. We may also experience delays associated with these required Phase IV clinical studies potentially resulting from, among other factors, difficulty enrolling pediatric patients. Such delays could impact our ability to obtain an additional six months of FDA exclusivity. In addition, we have only obtained regulatory approval to market Caldolor in the United States. In foreign jurisdictions such as Canada, New Zealand, South Korea, Southeast Asia and Australia we have licensed the right to market Caldolor to third parties. These third parties are responsible for seeking regulatory approval for Caldolor in their respective jurisdictions. We have no control over these third parties and cannot be sure that marketing approval for Caldolor will be obtained outside the United States. Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire rights to products. If we do not successfully identify and acquire rights to products and successfully integrate them into our operations, our growth opportunities may be limited. We acquired rights to Caldolor, Acetadote and Kristalose. Our business strategy is to continue to acquire rights to FDA-approved products as well as pharmaceutical product candidates in the late stages of development. We do not plan to conduct basic research or pre-clinical product development, except to the extent of our investment in CET. As compared to large multi-national pharmaceutical companies, we have limited resources to acquire third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Many acquisition opportunities involve competition among several potential purchasers including large multi-national pharmaceutical companies and other competitors that have access to greater financial resources than we do. With future acquisitions, we may face financial and operational risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to engage in future product acquisitions, and those we do complete may not be beneficial to us in the long term. If we are unable to maintain and build an effective sales and marketing infrastructure, we will not be able to commercialize and grow our products and product candidates successfully. As we grow, we may not be able to secure sales personnel or organizations that are adequate in number or expertise to successfully market and sell our products. This risk would be accentuated if we acquire products in areas outside of hospital acute care and gastroenterology, since our sales forces specialize in these areas. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capability or any other capabilities necessary to commercialize our products and product candidates, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell our products. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to increase our product revenue, may generate increased expenses and we may not continue to be profitable. If governmental or third-party payors do not provide adequate reimbursement for our products, our revenue and prospects for continued profitability may be limited. Our financial success depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors. Such third-party payors include governmental health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, while governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. Future cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products, which would limit our revenue and profitability. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products might change. Reimbursement practices of third-party payors might preclude us from achieving market acceptance for our products or maintaining price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product acquisition and development. If we cannot obtain adequate reimbursement levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents “Formulary” practices of third-party payors could adversely affect our competitive position. Many managed health care organizations are now controlling the pharmaceutical products listed on their formulary lists. The benefit of having products listed on these formulary lists creates competition among pharmaceutical companies which, in turn, has created a trend of downward pricing pressure in our industry. In addition, many managed care organizations are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs and are considering formulary contracts primarily with those pharmaceutical companies that can offer a full line of products for a given therapy sector or disease state. Our products might not be included on the formulary lists of managed care organizations, and downward pricing pressure in our industry generally could negatively impact our operations. Continued consolidation of distributor networks in the pharmaceutical industry as well as increases in retailer concentration may limit our ability to profitably sell our products. We sell most of our products to large pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn sell to, thereby supplying, hospitals and retail pharmacies. The distribution network for pharmaceutical products has become increasingly consolidated in recent years. Further consolidation or financial difficulties could also cause our customers to reduce the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our CET joint initiative may not result in our gaining access to commercially viable products. Our CET joint initiative with Vanderbilt University and Tennessee Technology Development Corporation is designed to help us investigate, in a cost-effective manner, early-stage products and technologies. However, we may never gain access to commercially viable products from CET for a variety of reasons, including: • CET investigates early-stage products, which have the greatest risk of failure prior to FDA approval and commercialization; • In some programs, we do not have pre-set rights to product candidates developed by CET. We would need to agree with CET and its collaborators on the terms of any product licensed to, or acquired by, us; • We rely principally on government grants to fund CET’s research and development programs. If these grants were no longer available, we or our co-owners might be unable or unwilling to fund CET operations at current levels or at all; • We may become involved in disputes with our co-owners regarding CET policy or operations, such as how best to deploy CET assets or which product opportunities to pursue. Disagreement could disrupt or halt product development; and • CET may disagree with one of the various universities with which CET is collaborating on research. A disagreement could disrupt or halt product development. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business will be materially harmed. We are a relatively small company, and we depend to a great extent on principal members of our management and scientific staff. If we lose the services of any key personnel, in particular, A.J. Kazimi, our Chief Executive Officer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. We currently have a key man life insurance policy covering the life of Mr. Kazimi. We have entered into agreements with each of our employees that contain restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation of our customers and suppliers for one year after termination of employment. Nevertheless, each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason, and so as a practical matter these agreements do not guarantee the continued service of these employees. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we experience difficulties in hiring and retaining personnel in key positions, we could suffer from delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results. 21 Table of Contents We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. We face an inherent risk of product liability lawsuits related to the testing of our product candidates and the commercial sale of our products. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates or products causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we may incur substantial liabilities. Liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlement with patients; • product recalls; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We are highly dependent upon medical and patient perceptions of us and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or our products are subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products sold by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to patients. Also, because of our dependence upon medical and patient perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products sold by other companies could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials and the marketing and sale of our products up to a $10 million annual aggregate limit, subject to specified deductibles. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. Because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to our shareholders in the foreseeable future. The availability of funds for distributions to shareholders will depend substantially on our earnings. Even if we become able to pay dividends in the future, we expect that we would retain such earnings to enhance capital and/or reduce long-term debt. RISKS RELATING TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to stringent government regulation. All of our products face regulatory challenges. Virtually all aspects of our business activities are regulated by government agencies. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution, promotion and sampling, and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities, are subject to governmental regulation. These activities are regulated by one or more of the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as well as by comparable agencies in foreign countries. These activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. For more information, see “Business—Government Regulation.” 22 Table of Contents Like all pharmaceutical manufacturers, we are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act). All “new drugs” must be the subject of an FDA-approved NDA before they may be marketed in the United States. The FDA has the authority to withdraw existing NDA approvals and to review the regulatory status of products marketed under the enforcement policy. The FDA may require an approved NDA for any drug product marketed under the enforcement policy if new information reveals questions about the drug’s safety and effectiveness. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with cGMP, and drug products subject to an approved NDA must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the NDA. Since we rely on third parties to manufacture our products, cGMP requirements directly affect our third party manufacturers and indirectly affect us. The manufacturing facilities of our third-party manufacturers are continually subject to inspection by such governmental agencies, and manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in any such facilities if such inspections prove unsatisfactory. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure such compliance. Pharmaceutical products must be distributed, sampled and promoted in accordance with FDA requirements. The FDA also regulates the advertising of prescription drugs. The FDA has the authority to request post-approval commitments that can be time-consuming and expensive. Under the FDC Act, the federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. Those powers include, but are not limited to, the authority to initiate court action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, and to seek civil monetary and criminal penalties. The initiation of any of these enforcement activities, including the restriction or prohibition on sales of our products, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or statutes or legal interpretation, when and if promulgated or enacted, may have on our business in the future. Such changes, or new legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Proposed legislation may permit re-importation of drugs from other countries into the U.S., including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S., which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. Legislation has been introduced in Congress that if enacted would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the U.S. which may include re-importation from foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could decrease the price we receive for any approved products which, in turn could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our strategy to secure and extend marketing exclusivity or patent rights may provide only limited protection from competition. We seek to secure and extend marketing exclusivity for our products through a variety of means, including FDA exclusivity and patent rights. Acetadote has been designated as an “orphan drug” and is indicated to prevent or lessen hepatic (liver) injury when administered intravenously within eight to ten hours after ingesting quantities of acetaminophen that are potentially toxic to the liver. The FDA is authorized to grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market another drug using the same active ingredients for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. To this extent, Acetadote is protected until 2011 against competition from another drug using the same active ingredient to treat the same indication. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity does not, however, protect a drug from competition by a different drug marketed for the same indications. 23 Table of Contents We do not have “composition of matter” or “use” patents for our marketed products. We do have a U.S. patent, No. 6,727,286 for Caldolor, and some related international patents, which are directed to ibuprofen solution formulations, methods of making the same, and methods of using the same, and which are related to our formulation and manufacture of Caldolor. Additionally, the active ingredient in Caldolor—ibuprofen—is in the public domain, and if a competitor were to develop a sufficiently distinct formulation, it could develop and seek FDA approval for an ibuprofen product that competes with Caldolor. Upon receipt of FDA approval in June 2009, we received three years of marketing exclusivity for Caldolor. Kristalose is manufactured under a contract with Inalco, which owns U.S. Patent No. 5,480,491, related to the manufacture of Kristalose. This patent is not directed to the composition or use of Kristalose and does not prevent a competitor from developing a formulation and developing and seeking FDA approval for a product that competes with Kristalose. While we consider patent protection when evaluating product acquisition opportunities, any products we acquire in the future may not have significant patent protection. Neither the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many pharmaceutical patents. Patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months following the filing date of the first related application, and in some cases not at all. In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific literature often lags significantly behind actual discoveries. Therefore, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. In addition, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. As a result of these factors, our patent rights may not provide any commercially valuable protection from competing products. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patents, we rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or attainable. For example, the manufacturing process for Kristalose involves substantial trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with certain key employees and consultants pursuant to which such employees and consultants must assign to us any inventions relating to our business if made by them while they are our employees, as well as certain confidentiality agreements relating to the acquisition of rights to products. Confidentiality agreements can be breached, though, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others could acquire or independently develop similar technology. We depend on our licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of our intellectual property and have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf. When we license products, we often depend on our licensors to protect the proprietary rights covering those products. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on maintaining patent or other rights and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. While any such licensor is expected to be under contractual obligations to us to diligently prosecute its patent applications and allow us the opportunity to consult, review and comment on patent office communications, we cannot be sure that it will perform as required. If a licensor does not perform and if we do not assume the maintenance of the licensed patents in sufficient time to make required payments or filings with the appropriate governmental agencies, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights. If the use of our technology conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to commercialize products based on this technology in a profitable manner or at all. If our products conflict with the intellectual property rights of others, they could bring legal action against us or our licensors, licensees, manufacturers, customers or collaborators. If we were found to be infringing a patent or other intellectual property rights held by a third party, we could be forced to seek a license to use the patented or otherwise protected technology. We might not be able to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us or at all. If an infringement 24 Table of Contents or misappropriation legal action were to be brought against us or our licensors, we would incur substantial costs in defending the action. If such a dispute were to be resolved against us, we could be subject to significant damages, and the manufacturing or sale of one or more of our products could be enjoined. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, some of our confidential information could be disclosed during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to our products and product candidates from others, we could lose the ability to continue commercialization of our products and development and commercialization of our product candidates. We have exclusive licenses for the marketing and sale of certain products and may acquire additional licenses. Such licenses may terminate prior to expiration if we breach our obligations under the license agreement related to these pharmaceutical products. For example, the licenses may terminate if we fail to meet specified quality control standards, including cGMP with respect to the products, or commit a material breach of other terms and conditions of the licenses. Such early termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We are a relatively new company seeking to capture significant growth. While our revenues and operating income have increased over time, we anticipate that there may be fluctuations in our future operating results. We may not be able to maintain or improve our current levels of revenue or income. Potential causes of future fluctuations in our operating results may include: • new product launches, which could increase revenues but also increase sales and marketing expenses; • acquisition activity and other charges (such as for inventory expiration); • increases in research and development expenses resulting from the acquisition of a product candidate that requires significant additional development; • changes in the competitive, regulatory or reimbursement environment, which could drive down revenues or drive up sales and marketing or compliance costs; and • unexpected product liability or intellectual property claims and lawsuits. 25 Table of Contents See also “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — Liquidity and capital resources.” Fluctuation in operating results, particularly if not anticipated by investors and other members of the financial community, could add to volatility in our stock price. Our focus on acquisitions as a growth strategy has created a large amount of intangible assets whose amortization could negatively affect our results of operations. Our total assets include intangible assets related to our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, intangible assets relating to product and data acquisitions represented approximately 8% of our total assets. We may never realize the value of these assets. Generally accepted accounting principles require that we evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of the asset may no longer be recoverable, in which case we would write down the value of the asset and take a corresponding charge to earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development or commercialization and marketing efforts. We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet the capital requirements of running our business and acquiring and developing new pharmaceutical products. If we require additional funding, we may seek to sell common stock or other equity or equity-linked securities, which could result in dilution to our shareholders. We may also seek to raise capital through a debt financing, which would result in ongoing debt-service payments and increased interest expense. Any financings would also likely involve operational and financial restrictions being imposed on us. We might also seek to sell assets or rights in one or more commercial products or product development programs. Additional capital might not be available to us when we need it on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we could be forced to scale back our operations to conserve cash. RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR STOCK The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price for the shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering was determined by negotiation between the representatives of the underwriters and us. This price may not have reflected the market price of our common stock following our initial public offering. Through March 16, 2010, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $11.10 to a high of $17.05 per share. Moreover, the market price of our common stock might decline below current levels. In addition, the market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such securities litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. The recent economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay 26 Table of Contents or abandon clinical developments plans. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. We are experiencing increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote additional time to new compliance initiatives. We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote additional time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. These rules and regulations have and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will render some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Some provisions of our third amended and restated charter, bylaws, credit facility and Tennessee law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our corporate documents contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by you and other shareholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders; • a staggered board of directors; • a restriction prohibiting shareholders from removing directors without cause; • a requirement that vacancies in directorships are to be filled by a majority of the directors then in office and the number of directors is to be fixed by the board of directors; and • no cumulative voting. These and other provisions contained in our third amended and restated charter and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of shareholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our shareholders may deem to be in their best interests and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Under our bank credit agreement, it is an event of default if any person or entity obtains ownership or control, in one or a series of transactions, of more than 30% of our common stock or 30% of the voting power entitled to vote in the election of members of our board of directors. In addition, we are subject to control share acquisitions provisions and affiliated transaction provision of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the applications of which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, takeover or other change in control of us and therefore could discourage attempts to acquire our company. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical factual statements are “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations, and can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “should,” “seek,” “anticipate” and other comparable terms or the negative thereof. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make forward-looking oral and written public statements concerning our expected future operations and other developments. While forward-looking statements reflect our good-faith beliefs and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in “Risk factors,” “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Such factors include, without limitation: • legislative, regulatory or other changes in the healthcare industry at the local, state or federal level which increase the costs of, or otherwise affect our operations; • changes in reimbursement available to us by government or private payers, including changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment levels and availability of third-party insurance coverage; • competition; and • changes in national or regional economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and availability and cost of capital to us. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 