ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is risky. Stockholders and potential purchasers of shares of our stock should carefully consider the following risk factors, which hereby update those risks contained in the “Risk Factors” section of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that was filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008, in addition to other information and risk factors in this Report. We are identifying these risk factors as important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of InterMune. We are relying upon the safe harbor for all forward-looking statements in this Report, and any such statements made by or on behalf of InterMune are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements, as well as to those set forth elsewhere in this Report. Risks Related to the Development of Our Products and Product Candidates We may not succeed in our development efforts. We commenced operations in 1998 and have incurred significant losses to date. Our revenue has been limited primarily to sales of Actimmune derived from physicians’ prescriptions for the off-label use of Actimmune in the treatment of IPF. In March 2007, we discontinued our development of Actimmune for treatment of IPF. Although we are developing pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF and have announced results for the CAPACITY trials in February 2009, pirfenidone will not be marketed for any diseases before late 2009 or early 2010, if at all. We may fail to develop our products on schedule, or at all, for the reasons stated in “Risks Related to the Development of Our Products and Product Candidates.” If this were to occur, our costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. To gain approval to market a product for the treatment of a specific disease, we must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate the safety and statistically significant and clinically meaningful efficacy of that product for the treatment of the disease. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier preclinical or clinical trials. These setbacks have been caused by, among other things, preclinical findings made while clinical studies were underway and safety or efficacy observations made in clinical studies. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the results of clinical trials by other parties may not be indicative of the results in trials we may conduct. For example: • The results from our CAPACITY trials differ in certain respects from the results of the Shionogi Phase III clinical trial for pirfenidone. In addition, pirfenidone failed to achieve statistical significance on the primary endpoint in one of our two pivotal CAPACITY clinical trials and there can be no assurance that the regulatory authorities in either the United States or Europe will grant regulatory approval based upon the efficacy data from a single pivotal trial, in combination with the other efficacy and safety results the company currently intends to submit in support of its NDA and MAA filings. Further analyses of the CAPACITY results will be conducted in the future and additional observations may be made which may lead to material change in our current regulatory strategy for pirfenidone, including a decision by us not to proceed with either or both of its regulatory submissions in the United States and Europe. • We terminated our development of Actimmune for patients with IPF as a result of our decision to discontinue the INSPIRE trial on the recommendation of the study’s independent DMC. We do not 25 Table of Contents intend to conduct further development of Actimmune for the treatment of IPF. In addition, we reported that our exploratory Phase II clinical trial evaluating Actimmune for the potential treatment of advanced liver fibrosis caused by HCV in patients who have failed standard antiviral therapy failed to meet its primary endpoint. As a result, we do not intend to conduct further development of Actimmune for the treatment of liver fibrosis. • The positive results of the Phase Ia and Ib trials for ITMN-191 do not ensure that subsequent trials for ITMN-191 will be successful at any dosing level. We do not know whether our planned clinical trials will begin on time, or at all, or will be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or place a clinical trial on clinical hold; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients experience adverse side effects; • patients withdraw or die during a clinical trial for a variety of reasons, including adverse events associated with the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems that may or may not be related to our products or product candidates; • the interim results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or negative; • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • our contract laboratories fail to follow good laboratory practices; or • sufficient quantities of the trial drug are not available. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If there are any significant delays for any of our other current or planned clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products and product candidates will be harmed, and our prospects for profitability will be impaired. Preclinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our current preclinical development programs. We may determine that certain preclinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient potential to warrant the allocation of resources toward them. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate our programs for and, in certain cases, our licenses to, such product candidates or programs. If we terminate a preclinical program in which we have invested significant resources, we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a full return on our investment and missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. For example, we terminated our license and collaboration agreement with Maxygen for the development of next-generation interferon gamma products effective July 2007. We currently depend upon one collaboration partner, Roche, for support in the development and commercialization of our HCV product candidates. If our Collaboration Agreement with Roche terminates, our business and, in particular, the development and commercialization of our HCV product candidates would be significantly harmed. On October 16, 2006, we entered into the Collaboration Agreement with Roche. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we agreed to collaborate with Roche to develop and commercialize products from our HCV protease 26 Table of Contents inhibitor program. The Collaboration Agreement includes our lead candidate compound ITMN-191, which has completed Phase Ib clinical trials. We also agreed to collaborate with Roche on a research program to identify, develop and commercialize novel second-generation HCV protease inhibitors. Assuming that we continue to successfully develop and commercialize these product candidates, under the terms of the Collaboration Agreement we are entitled to receive reimbursement and sharing of expenses incurred in connection with the development of these product candidates and additional milestone payments from Roche. As a result, Roche is providing 67% of the development costs for ITMN-191. In addition, if any of the product candidates we have licensed to Roche are approved for commercialization, we anticipate receiving proceeds in connection with the sales of such products. Roche may terminate the Collaboration Agreement in its entirety, in any country, subject to certain limitations for major countries, or with respect to any product or product candidate licensed under the Collaboration Agreement for any reason on six months’ written notice. If the Collaboration Agreement is terminated in whole or in part and we are unable to enter into similar arrangements with other collaborators, our business could be materially adversely affected. If Roche fails to perform its obligations under the Collaboration Agreement, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates licensed to Roche and the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated. Under the Collaboration Agreement, if marketing authorization is obtained, we have the right to co-promote with Roche our lead candidate compound ITMN-191 and/or any other product candidates licensed to Roche, as applicable, in the United States and Roche has the right to market and sell ITMN-191 and/or any other product candidates licensed to Roche throughout the rest of the world. Roche is also responsible for the manufacturing of the global commercial supply for ITMN-191 and/or any other product candidates licensed to Roche. As a result, we will depend upon the success of the efforts of Roche to manufacture, market and sell ITMN-191 and/or any other product candidates, if approved. However, we have little to no control over the resources that Roche may devote to such manufacturing and commercialization efforts and, if Roche does not devote sufficient time and resources to such efforts, we may not realize the commercial benefits that we anticipate, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if Roche were to terminate the Collaboration Agreement, we would not have manufacturing resources to manufacture ITMN-191, and we would need to develop those resources or contract with one or more third party manufacturers, which we may be unable to do at a favorable cost, or at all. If we materially breach the representations and warranties we made to Roche under the Collaboration Agreement or any of our other contractual obligations, Roche has the right to seek indemnification from us for damages it suffers as a result of such breach. These amounts could be substantial. We have agreed to indemnify Roche and its affiliates against losses suffered as a result of our material breach of representations and warranties and our other obligations in the Collaboration Agreement. If one or more of our representations and warranties were not true at the time we made them to Roche, we would be in breach of the Collaboration Agreement. In the event of a breach by us, Roche has the right to seek indemnification from us for damages suffered by Roche as a result of such breach. The amounts for which we could become liable to Roche may be substantial. Roche has the right under certain circumstances to market and sell products that compete with our product candidates that we have licensed to Roche, and any competition by Roche could have a material adverse effect on our business. Roche has agreed that, except as set forth in the Collaboration Agreement, it will not develop or commercialize certain specific competitive products during the exclusivity period, which extends until October 2011 at the latest. However if neither ITMN-191 nor any other product candidate is in clinical development, Roche may develop or commercialize such competitive products during the exclusivity period in accordance with the Collaboration Agreement. However, if they undertake such development or commercialization, we will have the right to terminate the Collaboration Agreement. Accordingly, despite the exclusivity period, Roche may 27 Table of Contents under certain circumstances develop or commercialize competitive products. Roche has significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and they are better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. In addition, Roche has more extensive experience than we have in preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. In the event that Roche competes with us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Approval of our Products and Product Candidates If we fail to comply or have in the past failed to comply with FDA or other government regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained, we could be subject to regulatory enforcement action by the FDA or other governmental authorities as well as follow-on actions filed by consumers and other end-payors, which actions could result in substantial fines, sanctions and damage awards against us, any of which could harm our business. Physicians may prescribe commercially available drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those uses tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. For example, even though the FDA has not approved the use of Actimmune for the treatment of IPF, we are aware that physicians are, and have in the past, prescribing Actimmune for the treatment of IPF. Substantially all of our Actimmune revenue is derived from physicians’ prescriptions for off-label use for IPF. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA and other governmental agencies do, however, restrict manufacturers’ communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies may not promote FDA approved drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, we may not promote Actimmune for the treatment of IPF. The FDA and other governmental authorities actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against manufacturers for alleged improper promotion, including us in October 2006 in connection with our reaching comprehensive settlement with the government to resolve all claims as it relates to our promotional activities with respect to Actimmune, and the FDA has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which certain promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. We are aware of many instances, including our own experience as it relates to Actimmune, in which the Office of the Inspector General of the FDA has sought and secured criminal penalties and/or a corporate integrity agreement against pharmaceutical manufacturers requiring payment of substantial fines and monitoring of certain promotional activities to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. We engage in medical education activities that are subject to scrutiny under the FDA’s regulations relating to off-label promotion. While we believe we are currently in compliance with these regulations, the regulations are subject to varying interpretations, which are evolving. If the FDA or any other governmental agency initiates an enforcement action against us and it is determined that we violated prohibitions relating to off-label promotion in connection with past or future activities, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal fines and sanctions such as those noted above in this risk factor, any of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue, business and financial prospects. As a follow-on to such governmental enforcement actions, consumers and other end-payors of the product may initiate action against us claiming, among other things, fraudulent misrepresentation, civil RICO, unfair competition, violation of various state consumer protection statutes, and unjust enrichment. For example, as a follow-on to the subpoena we received from the U.S. Department of Justice with respect to our promotional and marketing activities in connection with Actimmune and the resulting settlement we reached with the government in October 2006, we have had various class action suits filed against us by consumers and other end-payors of Actimmune as discussed in more detail below in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If the plaintiffs in such follow-on actions are successful , we could be subject to various damages, including compensatory damages, treble damages, punitive damages, restitution, disgorgement, prejudgment and post-judgment interest on any monetary award, and the reimbursement of the plaintiffs’ legal fees and costs, any of which would also have an adverse effect on our revenue, business and financial prospects. 28 Table of Contents In addition, some of the agreements pursuant to which we license our products, including our license agreement relating to Actimmune, contain provisions requiring us to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the FDA’s restriction on the promotion of FDA approved drugs for off-label uses. As a result, if it were determined that we violated the FDA’s rules relating to off-label promotion in connection with our marketing of Actimmune, we may be in material breach of our license agreement for Actimmune. If we failed to cure a material breach of this license agreement, we could lose our rights to certain therapeutic uses for Actimmune under the agreement. If the FDA imposes significant restrictions or requirements related to our products for any disease, or withdraws its approval of any of our products for any disease for which it has been approved, our revenue would decline. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the use or marketing of our products or impose additional requirements for post-approval studies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with any of our products or their manufacture may result in further restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In this regard, the FDA has conducted routine inspections of our manufacturing contractors, and some were issued a standard “notice of observations.” While we believe that all of these observations are being appropriately corrected, failure to correct any deficiency could result in manufacturing delays. Our existing approvals for diseases, and any new approval for any other disease that we target, if granted, could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to meet our post-approval commitments. For example, we have ongoing Phase IV post-marketing commitments to the FDA relating to Actimmune for the treatment of osteopetrosis. Our failure to adequately address these ongoing Phase IV commitments could result in a regulatory action or restriction, such as withdrawal of the relevant product’s approval by the FDA. If approval for a disease is withdrawn, we could no longer market the affected product for that disease. In addition, governmental authorities could seize our inventory of such product, or force us to recall any product already in the market, if we fail to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations. For a description of restrictions relating to the off-label promotion of our products, please see the risk factor titled, “If we fail to comply or have in the past failed to comply with FDA or other government regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained, we could be subject to regulatory enforcement action by the FDA or other governmental authorities as well as follow-on actions filed by consumers and other end-payors, which actions could result in substantial fines, sanctions and damage awards against us, any of which could harm our business” above. If our clinical trials fail to demonstrate to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that any of our products or product candidates are safe and effective for the treatment of particular diseases, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or may not grant us marketing approval for such products or product candidates for those diseases. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our products or product candidates for the treatment of particular diseases may delay or prevent our receipt of the FDA’s and foreign regulatory authorities’ approval and, ultimately, may prevent commercialization of our products and product candidates for those diseases. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in deciding whether, based on the benefits and risks in a particular disease, any of our products or product candidates should be granted approval for the treatment of that particular disease. Even if we believe that a clinical trial has demonstrated the safety and statistically significant efficacy of any of our products or product candidates for the treatment of a disease, the results may not be satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Our CAPACITY trials are being conducted without a Special Protocol Assessment, so there can be no assurance that, even if we believe the results of the trials are favorable, the results will provide a sufficient basis in the view of the FDA for the FDA to grant regulatory approval of a new drug application for pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF. If regulatory delays are significant or regulatory 29 Table of Contents approval is limited or denied altogether, our financial results and the commercial prospects for those of our products or product candidates involved will be harmed, and our prospects for profitability will be impaired. The pricing and profitability of our products may be subject to control by the government and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of governmental and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare through various means may adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products. For example, in most foreign markets, the pricing and/or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. For example, federal legislation was enacted on December 8, 2003 that provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit which began in 2006 and which mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full effects on our business of the implementation of this program, it is possible that the new Medicare benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. These new and any future cost-control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for Actimmune or any other products that we may develop in the future, which would reduce our revenue and potential profitability. Our failure or alleged failure to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions and/or harm our business. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse”, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Subject to certain exceptions, the anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to knowingly and willfully solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors” or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal and state and third-party payment for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, could become subject to scrutiny under these laws. In addition, pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under the False Claims Act in connection with their “off-label” promotion of drugs. For information regarding allegations with respect to “off-label” promotion by us, please see the risk factor titled “If we fail to comply or have in the past failed to comply with FDA or other government regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained, it could result in regulatory enforcement action by the FDA or other governmental authorities, including a substantial fine, either of which could harm our business” above. If the government were to allege that we were, or convict us of, violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on us, including a substantial fine, decline in our stock price, or both. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Manufacturing and Our Dependence on Third Parties The manufacturing and manufacturing development of our products and product candidates present technological, logistical and regulatory risks, each of which may adversely affect our potential revenue. The manufacturing and manufacturing development of pharmaceuticals, and, in particular, biologicals, are technologically and logistically complex and heavily regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities. The manufacturing and manufacturing development of our products and product candidates present many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • It may not be technically feasible to scale up an existing manufacturing process to meet demand or such scale-up may take longer than anticipated; and • Failure to comply with strictly enforced good manufacturing practices regulations and similar foreign standards may result in delays in product approval or withdrawal of an approved product from the market. For example, the FDA has conducted routine inspections of our manufacturing contractors, and some were issued a standard “notice of observations.” Failure to correct any deficiency could result in manufacturing delays. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and/or commercialization of our products for particular diseases, interfere with current sales, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell our products. Our manufacturing strategy, which relies on third-party manufacturers, exposes us to additional risks as a result of which we may lose potential revenue. We do not have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture any of our products or product candidates ourselves. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our products requires access to, or development of, manufacturing facilities that meet FDA standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. The FDA must approve facilities that manufacture our products for commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for the product. We depend on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical purposes, and we rely on third parties with FDA approved manufacturing facilities for the manufacture of Actimmune for commercial purposes. These third parties include BI, and Catalent Pharma Solutions, or Catalent. We have a long-term supply contract with BI for Actimmune, a long-term supply contract with Signa and ACIC for pirfenidone API and a contract with Catalent for the manufacture of the drug product for pirfenidone. In addition, under our Collaboration Agreement with Roche, we are dependent upon Roche for the manufacture of ITMN-191. However, if we do not perform our obligations under these agreements, these agreements may be terminated. Our manufacturing strategy for our products and product candidates presents many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • If market demand for our products is less than our purchase obligations to our manufacturers, we may incur substantial penalties and substantial inventory write-offs. • Manufacturers of our products are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced good manufacturing practices regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. • When we need to change third party manufacturers of a particular pharmaceutical product, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities must approve the new manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use or sale of products it manufactures for us. This requires demonstrated compatibility of product, process and testing and compliance inspections. Delays in transferring manufacturing technology between third parties could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates. 31 Table of Contents • Our manufacturers might not be able or refuse to fulfill our commercial or clinical trial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market or clinical trial demands. For example, our current agreement with BI does not impose any obligation on BI to reserve a minimum annual capacity for the production of Actimmune, which could impair our ability to obtain product from them in a timely fashion. • We may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. • Our product costs may increase if our manufacturers pass their increasing costs of manufacture on to us. • If third-party manufacturers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we will not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products and product candidates and will not be able to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. In such event, we may not be able to locate any necessary acceptable replacement manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with such replacement manufacturers in a timely manner, if at all. • If our agreement with a third-party manufacturer expires, we may not be able to renegotiate a new agreement with that manufacturer on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot successfully complete such renegotiation, we may not be able to locate any necessary acceptable replacement manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with such replacement manufacturers in a timely manner, if at all. Any of these factors could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our products for particular diseases, interfere with current sales, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell our products. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our products and product candidates, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. If our third-party contractors do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed in or prevented from obtaining regulatory approvals for our products and product candidates, and may not be able to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates for targeted diseases. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for all of our products and product candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform this function. Our ability to monitor and audit the performance of these third parties is limited. If these third parties do not perform satisfactorily, our clinical trials may be extended or delayed, resulting in potentially substantial cost increases to us and other adverse impacts on our product development efforts. We may not be able to locate any necessary acceptable replacements or enter into favorable agreements with them, if at all. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Products and Product Candidates If the specialty pharmacies and distributors that we rely upon to sell our products fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of specialty pharmacies and distributors. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of injectable or infused medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies and distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies and distributors will: • not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Actimmune or Actimmune complaints; • not effectively sell or support Actimmune; 32 Table of Contents • reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support Actimmune; • not devote the resources necessary to sell Actimmune in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or • cease operations. Any such failure may result in decreased product sales and lower product revenue, which would harm our business. Even if regulatory authorities approve our products or product candidates for the treatment of the diseases we are targeting, our products may not be marketed or commercially successful. Our products and product candidates are expensive, and we anticipate that the annual cost for treatment for each of the diseases for which we are seeking approval will be significant. These costs will vary for different diseases based on the dosage and method of administration. Accordingly, we may decide not to market any of our products or product candidates for an approved disease because we believe that it may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of and demand for our products and product candidates will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • cost of treatment; • pricing and availability of alternative products; • ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement for our products or product candidates to treat a particular disease; • perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects associated with treatment. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimburse patients for our products, our revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates for particular diseases is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for our products is available from: • private health insurers, including managed care organizations; • governmental payors, such as Medicaid, the U.S. Public Health Service Agency or the Veterans’ Administration; and • other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of pharmaceutical products, particularly with respect to products that are prescribed by physicians for off-label use. If governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, market acceptance of our products will be reduced, and our sales will suffer. Many third-party payors provide coverage or reimbursement only for FDA approved indications. If any large or many third-party payors decide to deny reimbursement for Actimmune used to treat IPF, sales of Actimmune would decline, and our revenue would suffer. 33 Table of Contents Often, third-party payors make the decision to reimburse an off-label prescription based on whether that product has a compendia listing. A drug compendia is produced by a compendia body, such as the United States Pharmacopoeia Drug Information, that lists approved indications that a product has received from the FDA. The compendia bodies also evaluate all of the clinical evidence to determine whether an off-label use of a product should be listed in the compendia as medically appropriate. A compendia listing of an off-label use is a condition typically required by third-party payors, such as Medicare and private payors, to cover that use. Applications for a compendia listing are often based upon the publication of certain data in peer reviewed journals whose publication is often outside the applicant’s control. We are not seeking to achieve acceptance by a compendia body for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF. As a result, additional third-party payors may decide to deny reimbursement for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF and fewer physicians may prescribe Actimmune for such treatment. If either of these were to occur, sales of Actimmune would decline and our revenue would suffer. Some third-party payors have denied coverage for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF for a variety of reasons, including the cost of Actimmune, the fact that IPF is not an FDA approved indication for Actimmune or a third-party payor’s assessment that a particular patient’s case of IPF has advanced to a stage at which treatment with Actimmune would not have a significant effect. We believe that approximately 60-70% of the patients who seek coverage for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF from private third-party payors are able to obtain coverage. While coverage trends have not changed significantly in the last few years, major health plans could further restrict coverage or adopt a policy of no coverage since we have discontinued the INSPIRE trial and have no further development plans for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF. Medicare generally does not provide coverage for drugs, like Actimmune, that are administered by injection in the home. Moreover, in connection with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare has recently discussed the possibility of refusing to provide coverage for products for a specific indication unless the product has been approved by the FDA for that indication. If Medicare were to make a formal decision not to cover the off-label use of products, it may have a negative impact on the willingness of private third-party payors to provide coverage for the off-label use of products such as Actimmune. Our supply agreement with BI may restrict our ability to establish alternative sources of Actimmune in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost, which may cause us to be unable to meet demand for Actimmune and to lose potential revenue. Our new supply agreement with BI provides that BI is our exclusive source of supply for Actimmune, except under certain circumstances. Under the terms of the supply agreement, BI is not required to commit to reserving any minimum annual capacity for the manufacture of Actimmune and we cannot seek a secondary source to manufacture Actimmune until BI has indicated to us its inability or unwillingness to meet our requirements. If we are delayed in establishing a secondary supply source for Actimmune, or cannot do so at an acceptable cost, we may suffer a shortage of commercial supply of Actimmune or a higher cost of product, either of which would have a material and adverse effect on our revenue, business and financial prospects. The activities of competitive drug companies, or others, may limit our products’ revenue potential or render them obsolete. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or market products that, compared to our products or product candidates: • are more effective; • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • are better tolerated; • have better patient compliance; 34 Table of Contents • receive better reimbursement terms; • are more accepted by physicians; • are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; • have better distribution channels; • are easier to administer; or • are less expensive. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete effectively with our competitors’ current or future products. We expect that pirfenidone, if approved, may compete with two products that are being developed for the treatment of IPF, although the products are currently-available and approved for other indications. Tracleer, marketed by Actelion, is in Phase III clinical trials for IPF and is the most advanced competitor to pirfenidone. Tracleer is currently approved for pulmonary arterial hypertension. Letairis, marketed by Gilead, is a product currently approved for pulmonary arterial hypertension that is in Phase III clinical trials for IPF. We expect that ITMN-191, if approved, may compete with telaprevir, which is being developed by Vertex Pharmaceuticals, SCH 503034, which is being developed by Schering-Plough, and TMC 435450, which is being developed by Tibotec Pharmaceuticals and Medivir. Telaprevir, SCH-503034 and TMC 435450 are in Phase II clinical trials. Our competitors include larger, more established, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that have substantially greater capital resources, existing competitive products, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do. For more information, see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Rights We may not be able to obtain, maintain and protect certain proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of our products or product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and product candidates and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to commercialize our products will also depend in part on the patent positions of third parties, including those of our competitors. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to other companies’ patents. We could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we initiate suits to protect our patent rights. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our issued patents or those of our licensors will be valid and enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 35 Table of Contents Others have filed and in the future may file patent applications covering uses and formulations of interferon gamma-1b, a pegylated version of this product, and other products in our development program. If a third party has been or is in the future issued a patent that blocked our ability to commercialize any of our products, alone or in combination, for any or all of the diseases that we are targeting, we would be prevented from commercializing that product or combination of products for that disease or diseases unless we obtained a license from the patent holder. We may not be able to obtain such a license to a blocking patent on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain, maintain and protect the necessary proprietary rights for the development and commercialization of our products or product candidates, our business and financial prospects will be impaired. Over time, we will lose our ability to rely upon the intellectual property we currently own to prevent competing products, and after 2011 pirfenidone may only be protected by orphan drug designation, which may impair our ability to generate revenue. We have licensed certain patents relating to interferon gamma-1b, the active ingredient in Actimmune, from Genentech. A U.S. patent relating to the composition of interferon gamma-1b expires in 2014. Other material U.S. patents relating to interferon gamma-1b expire between 2009 and 2013. We also previously purchased certain patents relating to interferon gamma analogs from Amgen in 2002 including two U.S. patents that issued August 30, 2005 which will expire on August 30, 2022. When these various patents expire, we will be unable to use these patents to try to block others from marketing interferon gamma-1b in the United States. In 2002, we licensed from Marnac and its co-licensor, KDL, their worldwide rights, excluding Japan, Korea and Taiwan, to develop and commercialize pirfenidone for all fibrotic diseases, including the use of pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF. Effective November 21, 2007, we entered into asset purchase agreements with Marnac and KDL whereby we effectively terminated the prior license agreement by purchasing, among other things, the pirfenidone-related assets covered by such prior license agreement. Among the patents we purchased is U.S. Patent No. 5,310,562. After this U.S. patent expires in 2011, we will not be able to use this patent to block others from marketing pirfenidone for fibrotic disorders, including IPF. The FDA and the EMEA granted pirfenidone orphan drug designation for the treatment of IPF in 2004, which gives us seven years of market exclusivity for the use of pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF from the date that pirfenidone is approved, if it is approved. The pirfenidone molecule itself has no composition of matter patent protection in the United States or elsewhere. Therefore, we may have no ability to prevent others from commercializing pirfenidone for (i) IPF after the orphan drug designation exclusivity period ends, (ii) uses covered by other patents held by third parties, or (iii) other uses in the public domain for which there is no patent protection. We are primarily relying on exclusivity granted from orphan drug designation in IPF to protect pirfenidone from competitors in this indication. The exclusivity period in the United States begins on first NDA approval for this product in IPF and ends seven years thereafter. In addition, a third party could develop pirfenidone for another non-fibrotic disease that also qualifies for orphan drug designation and could be granted seven years exclusivity in that indication. Additionally, in the European Union we have been granted orphan drug designation for pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF by the EMEA, which provides for ten years of market exclusivity in the European Union following first marketing approval in the European Union. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain this orphan drug designation. Once our patents expire, we will be subject to competition from third parties who will be able to use the intellectual property covered by these patents, which could impair our ability to generate revenue. If we breach our license agreement with Genentech, we may lose our ability to develop and market Actimmune. We license certain patents and trade secrets relating to Actimmune from Genentech. If we breach this agreement with Genentech, they may be able to terminate the respective license, and we would have no further rights to utilize the licensed patents or trade secrets to develop and market Actimmune, which could adversely affect our revenue and financial prospects. 36 Table of Contents Since the pirfenidone molecule is in the public domain and the patents we acquired from Marnac and KDL are limited to specific methods of use of pirfenidone, we may be subject to competition from third party products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our product candidate. Composition of matter patent protection for pirfenidone molecule has expired in the United States and elsewhere. Others have obtained patents in the United States and elsewhere relating to methods of use of pirfenidone for the treatment of certain diseases. In 2002, we licensed from Marnac and its co-licensor, KDL, their worldwide rights, excluding Japan, Korea and Taiwan, to develop and commercialize pirfenidone for all fibrotic diseases, including the use of pirfenidone for the treatment of IPF. Effective November 21, 2007, we entered into asset purchase agreements with Marnac and KDL whereby we effectively terminated the prior license agreement by purchasing, among other things, the pirfenidone-related assets covered by such prior license agreement. It is possible that a third party may develop pirfenidone for the treatment of certain diseases that are not covered by patents we had acquired. If such third party were to develop pirfenidone for a use that is not covered by any patents and such third parties successfully developed pirfenidone for non-fibrotic indications, we could face competition from third party products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as our product candidate. If a third party were to obtain FDA approval for the use of pirfenidone for an indication before we did, such third party would be first to market and could establish the price for pirfenidone. This could adversely impact our ability to implement our pricing strategy for the product and may limit our ability to maximize the commercial potential of pirfenidone. The presence of a lower priced competitive product with the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our product could lead to use of the competitive product for our anti-fibrotic indications. This could lead to pricing pressure for pirfenidone, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the sale of pirfenidone for anti-fibrotic indications. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our collaborators to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may accuse us or our collaborators of employing their proprietary technology in our products, or in the materials or processes used to research or develop our products, without authorization. Any legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and/or seeking to stop our commercial activities relating to the affected products, materials and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to utilize the affected materials or processes or to manufacture or market the affected products. We cannot predict whether we, or our collaborators, would prevail in any of these actions or whether any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain such a license, we, or our collaborators, may be unable to continue to utilize the affected materials or processes or manufacture or market the affected products or we may be obligated by a court to pay substantial royalties and/or other damages to the patent holder. Even if we are able to obtain such a license, the terms of such a license could substantially reduce the commercial value of the affected product or products and impair our prospects for profitability. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent the commercial value of the affected product or products or our prospects for profitability may be harmed as a result of any of the liabilities discussed above. Furthermore, infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business. If the owners of the intellectual property we license fail to maintain the intellectual property, we may lose our rights to develop our products or product candidates. We generally do not control the patent prosecution of technology that we license from others. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would exercise over technology that we own. For example, if Genentech fails to maintain the intellectual property licensed to us, we may lose our rights to develop and market certain therapeutic uses for Actimmune and may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain or protect the intellectual property or to compel Genentech to do so. 37 Table of Contents If our employees, consultants and vendors do not comply with their confidentiality agreements or our trade secrets otherwise become known, our ability to generate revenue and profits may be impaired. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology where it is possible that patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known to an individual or company during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees and consultants, our agreements generally provide that all inventions made by the individual while engaged by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose a competitive advantage and our ability to generate revenue may therefore be impaired. By working with corporate partners, research collaborators and scientific advisors, we are subject to disputes over intellectual property, and our ability to obtain patent protection or protect proprietary information may be impaired. Under some of our research and development agreements, inventions discovered in certain cases become jointly owned by our corporate partner and us and in other cases become the exclusive property of one of us. It can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, and disputes could arise regarding those inventions. These disputes could be costly and could divert management’s attention from our business. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors have some rights to publish our data and proprietary information in which we have rights. Such publications may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to generate revenue. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Other Risks Related to Our Business Revenue from the sale of Actimmune has been declining and is expected to decline further. Physicians may choose not to prescribe Actimmune or provide fewer patient referrals for Actimmune for the treatment of IPF for a variety of reasons, some of which are because: • Actimmune is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of IPF, and we therefore are unable to market or promote Actimmune for the treatment of IPF; • in our initial and Phase III INSPIRE clinical trials, Actimmune failed to meet the primary and secondary endpoints; • physicians prefer to enroll their patients in clinical trials for the treatment of IPF; • Actimmune does not have a drug compendia listing, often a criterion used by third-party payors to decide whether or not to reimburse off-label prescriptions; • physicians’ patients are unable to receive or lose reimbursement from a third-party reimbursement organization; • physicians are not confident that Actimmune has a clinically significant treatment effect for IPF; or • a competitor’s product shows a clinically significant treatment effect for IPF. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of high-grade auction rate securities, corporate debt securities and government agency securities. As of December 31, 2008, our long-term investments included $21.0 million at 38 Table of Contents par value (current carrying value of $17.5 million) of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities issued by state municipalities. Our auction rate securities are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. The recent conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If there is insufficient demand for the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the interest rates may be reset to predetermined higher rates. Beginning February 2008, auctions failed for the entire $21.0 million of our auction rate securities and as a result our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $3.5 million for the writedown of the carrying value of these securities as we believe the decline in market value is other-than-temporary. If we attempt to liquidate a portion or all of our holdings in these securities in the near future, we may incur further losses. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, anticipated cash flows from our sales of Actimmune and proceeds from our February 2009 public offering, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses, settlement with the government, debt obligations and capital requirements under our current business plan through at least the end of 2009. However, our current plans and assumptions may change, and our capital requirements may increase in future periods. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to our stockholders or us. If additional funds are not available, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan. If we continue to incur net losses for an extended period of time, we may be unable to continue our business. We have incurred net losses since inception, and our accumulated deficit was approximately $755.4 million at December 31, 2008. We expect to incur substantial additional net losses prior to achieving profitability, if ever. The extent of our future net losses and the timing of our profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitable operations. We are planning to expand the number of diseases for which our products may be marketed, and this expansion will require significant expenditures. To date, we have generated revenue primarily through the sale of Actimmune. However, Actimmune sales have decreased in recent periods and we expect this trend to continue into the future. We have not generated operating profits to date from our products. If the time required for us to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. Failure to accurately forecast our revenue could result in additional charges for excess inventories or non-cancelable purchase obligations. We base many of our operating decisions on anticipated revenue trends and competitive market conditions, which are difficult to predict. Based on past projected revenue trends, we acquired inventories and entered into non-cancelable purchase obligations in order to meet anticipated increases in demand for our products. However, more recent projected revenue trends resulted in us recording charges of $0.7 million, $1.6 million and $4.5 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for excess inventories from previous years’ contractual purchases. If revenue levels experienced in future quarters are substantially below our expectations, especially revenue from sales of Actimmune, we could be required to record additional charges for excess inventories and/or non-cancelable purchase obligations. For additional information relating to difficulties we have experienced forecasting revenue, see the risk factor titled “We may fail to meet our publicly announced revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance, which would cause our stock to decline in value” below. 39 Table of Contents If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The testing, marketing and sale of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. We have product liability risk for all of our product candidates and for all of the clinical trials we conduct, including our unsuccessful INSPIRE trial. If product liability costs exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities. Whether or not we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which would impair our business. While we believe that our clinical trial and product liability insurance currently provides adequate protection to our business, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. Our use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and radioactive compounds exposes us to potential liabilities. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use and disposal of hazardous materials, chemicals, infectious disease agents and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for significant damages or fines, which may not be covered by or may exceed our insurance coverage. If we fail to fulfill our obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice or the Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On October 26, 2006, we announced that we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California and a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Under the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California filed an Information charging us with one count of off-label promotion of Actimmune for use with IPF, but has agreed to defer prosecution of such charge during the two year term of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. The U.S. Attorney will seek dismissal of the Information after the two year period if we comply with the provisions of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. Under the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services has agreed to waive any potential exclusion against us from participation in federal health care programs provided that we comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement for a period of five years. If we do not satisfy our obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, the U.S. Attorney can proceed with the prosecution against us for actions involving the off-label promotion of Actimmune for use with IPF, as set forth in the Information, and may consider additional actions against us, which could have significant adverse effects on our operations and financial results. If we do not satisfy our obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement, the Office of the Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services could potentially exclude us from participation in federal health care programs, which could have significant adverse effects on our operations and financial results. We may be required to indemnify certain of our former officers and directors if any action is taken by the U.S. Attorney or other authorities with respect to those individuals in connection with the off-label promotion of Actimmune for use with IPF, and there can be no assurance that our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance will cover all of these indemnification obligations. Insurance coverage is increasingly difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently maintain clinical trial and product liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, general liability insurance, property insurance and warehouse and transit insurance, first- and third- party 40 Table of Contents insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any first- or third-party claims made on our insurance policies may impact our future ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Budget or cash constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain products in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from meeting our stated timetables and commercializing those products as quickly as possible. Because we are an emerging company with limited resources, and because research and development is an expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development resources. Accordingly, we may choose to delay our research and development efforts for a promising product candidate to allocate those resources to another program, which could cause us to fall behind our initial timetables for development of certain product candidates. As a result, we may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, since they will be delayed in reaching the market, or may not reach the market at all. Failure to attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel and cultivate key academic collaborations will delay our product development programs and our business development efforts. We had 130 full-time employees as of February 28, 2009, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop relationships with leading academic scientists. Competition for personnel and academic collaborations is intense. We are highly dependent on our current management and key scientific and technical personnel, including Daniel G. Welch, our Chief Executive Officer and President, as well as the other principal members of our management. None of our employees, including members of our management team, has a long-term employment contract, and any of our employees can leave at any time. Our success will depend in part on retaining the services of our existing management and key personnel and attracting and retaining new highly qualified personnel. In addition, we may need to hire additional personnel and develop additional academic collaborations if we expand our research and development activities. We do not know if we will be able to attract, retain or motivate personnel or cultivate academic collaborations. Our inability to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel or cultivate academic collaborations would harm our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock We may fail to meet our publicly announced revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance, which would cause our stock to decline in value. There are a number of reasons why we might fail to meet our revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance, including, but not limited to, the following: • if only a subset of or no affected patients respond to therapy with any of our products or product candidates; • the actual dose or efficacy of the product for a particular condition may be different than currently anticipated; • negative publicity about the results of our clinical studies, such as the 2007 failure of INSPIRE to meet it’s primary endpoint and our resulting decision to discontinue the trial, or those of others with similar or related products may reduce demand for our products and product candidates; • the treatment regimen may be different in duration than currently anticipated; • treatment may be sporadic; 41 Table of Contents • we may not be able to sell a product at the price we expect; • we may not be able to accurately calculate the number of patients using the product; • we may not be able to supply enough product to meet demand; • there may be current and future competitive products that have greater acceptance in the market than our products do; • we may decide to divest a product; • our development activities may proceed faster than planned; • we may decide to change our marketing and educational programs; • clinical trial participation may reduce product sales; or • physicians’ prescriptions or patient referrals for Actimmune may decline. If we fail to meet our revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance for any reason, our stock could decline in value. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of the fiscal year. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we cannot in the future favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a high of $19.80 in April 2008 to a low of $9.73 in December 2008. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to any announcements made by Shionogi with respect to their pirfenidone product and all the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, the stock market in general, and the stock price of companies listed on the NASDAQ, and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities frequently results in securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation against that company. This type of litigation can result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. 42 Table of Contents If our officers, directors and certain stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to significantly influence our management and operations, acting in their own best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. At December 31, 2008, our directors, executive officers and greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 81% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence the election of all of our directors and to significantly influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers or a financing in which we sell more than 20% of our voting stock at a discount to market price. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their own best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also depress our stock price. Substantial sales of shares may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or conversion of our outstanding convertible notes the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the existence of our outstanding convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. We have filed registration statements covering the approximately 10,994,802 shares of common stock that are either issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options or reserved for future issuance pursuant to our stock plans as of December 31, 2008. We have also filed a shelf registration statement covering the resale of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due in 2011 and the 3,929,505 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of those notes. On October 29, 2004, we entered into an Amended and Restated Standstill Agreement with Warburg Pincus Equity Partners, L.P. and certain of its affiliates (“Warburg Pincus”) that permits Warburg Pincus to acquire up to 25% of our outstanding common stock in the open market. Under this agreement, Warburg Pincus may acquire up to 25% of our outstanding common stock and we have granted Warburg Pincus certain registration rights with respect to its holdings. The restriction on Warburg Pincus’ acquisition of additional shares of our common stock expired on October 29, 2007. In exchange for allowing Warburg Pincus to increase its ownership stake, Warburg Pincus has granted the independent members of our board of directors the right to vote the shares of InterMune common stock owned by Warburg Pincus in excess of 19.9%. In addition, Warburg Pincus has agreed to certain limitations on the manner in which it may dispose of its ownership interest in InterMune. In connection with this transaction, we also amended our stockholder Rights Plan to allow Warburg Pincus to acquire up to 25% of our outstanding common stock. Jonathan S. Leff, a member of our board of directors, is a managing director of Warburg Pincus LLC and a partner of Warburg Pincus & Co., which are affiliates of Warburg Pincus Equity Partners, L.P. In December 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement covering the sale of 7,357,549 shares held by Warburg Pincus and up to $175.0 million from any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock or warrants that may be sold by us. In September 2007 and February 2009, we completed public offerings of 4,025,000 shares each of registered common stock under this shelf registration statement. Management may invest or spend the proceeds of our February 2009 public offering in ways with which you may not agree and in ways that may not yield a return to our stockholders. Management will retain broad discretion over the use of proceeds from our February 2009 public offering. Stockholders may not deem such uses desirable, and our use of the proceeds may not yield a significant return or any return at all for our stockholders. Management intends to use the proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, which may include funding research and development including the preparation and submission of an NDA and MAA for pirfenidone, increasing our working capital, reducing our indebtedness, 43 Table of Contents acquisitions or investments in businesses, products or technologies that are complementary to our own, and capital expenditures. Because of the number and variability of factors that determine our use of the proceeds from this offering, our actual uses of the proceeds of this offering may vary substantially from our currently planned uses. We intend to invest the net proceeds from this offering in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities until we are ready to use them. Under the terms of our settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice concerning promotional activities for Actimmune by certain of our former employees, we may be required to apply a portion of the proceeds of our February 2009 public offering towards the making of an accelerated payment to the U.S. Department of Justice. As part of the comprehensive settlement we entered into with the U.S. Department of Justice concerning promotional activities for Actimmune by certain of our former employees during a period that ended in June of 2003, we entered into a Civil Settlement Agreement that provides that if, after the effective date of the settlement, we receive over $150.0 million from in license fees and milestone payments from partnering (excluding any research and development contributions), external debt and equity financing during the term of the settlement, 20% of the amount over $150.0 million (subject to a cap of $10.0 million per year) must be applied to the acceleration of the $36.9 million in original scheduled principal payments under the settlement. We entered into the Civil Settlement Agreement on October 25, 2006 and it became effective on December 4, 2006, the date the settlement was approved by the United States District Court. Since entering into the Civil Settlement Agreement, we have received approximately $35.0 million in license fees and milestone payments under our various partnering and collaboration agreements and approximately $136.9 million in equity financing. As a result, we have exceeded the aforementioned $150.0 million threshold by approximately $21.9 million and have made an accelerated payment to the U.S. Department of Justice of approximately $4.4 million in March 2009. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions, which could discourage, prevent or delay a takeover, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, or frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management or Board of Directors. The existence of our stockholder Rights Plan and provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and hinder a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. 44 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations between us and one or more significant stockholders unless specified conditions are met, may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance our operations and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for investors in our common stock for the foreseeable future. Risks Related to our Outstanding Notes Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, our annual debt service obligation on the $85.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due March 1, 2011 and $85.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 5.00% convertible senior notes due March 1, 2015 was a combined $4.5 million. We intend to fulfill our current debt service obligations, including repayment of the principal, both from cash generated by our operations and from our existing cash and investments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our current debt service obligations, including repayment of the principal, we may have to delay or curtail research and development programs. We may add additional lease lines to finance capital expenditures and may obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase further. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance any required redemptions of our outstanding convertible notes, which might constitute a default by us. If a designated event, such as the termination of trading of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or a specified change of control transaction occurs prior to maturity, we may be required to redeem all or part of our 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2011 and 5.00% convertible senior notes due 2015. We may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered notes. Although the indentures governing the 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2011 and 5.00% convertible senior notes due 2015 allow us in certain circumstances to pay the applicable redemption prices in shares of our common stock, if a designated event were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the redemption prices for all the notes tendered. 45 Table of Contents We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our outstanding notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. In addition, any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain provisions prohibiting redemption of our outstanding notes under certain circumstances, or expressly prohibit our redemption of our outstanding notes upon a designated event or may provide that a designated event constitutes an event of default under that agreement. If a designated event occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming our outstanding notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to redeem our outstanding notes or attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain consent, we would not be permitted to purchase or redeem our outstanding notes. Our failure to redeem tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the notes, which might constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 