ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of risks we believe to be significant with respect to our business, operations, financial condition, and other matters pertaining to an investment in our common stock. It is not possible to anticipate or predict every risk that may, in the future, prove to have a significant affect on UCN. Additional risks, including those that are currently not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. inContact and Intelligent-T are new product offerings so we have no history with the product to determine whether we will be successful in penetrating the market. Over the past two years UCN has expended significant time and resources in acquiring and developing its VoIP Network and the contact management software embodied in inContact and Intelligent-T. We continued refining our product offerings and marketing efforts during 2005. It is too soon to tell how successful we will be in achieving meaningful market penetration at a level that will enable us to recoup our investment and improve our results of operations in future periods. If we have poor or mediocre results from marketing these new products, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations have shown significant fluctuations over the past several years, which could impact the resources we have to pursue our business and adversely affect an investment in UCN. Our net loss applicable to common stockholders was approximately $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $2.8 million for 2004 and compared to net income applicable to common stockholders of $301,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Our results of operations is a result of a number of factors, including, • significant costs incurred in the acquisition and development of our VoIP Network and inContact family of products, • costs related to the acquisition of assets from Transtel Communications and the acquisition of MyACD that were incurred in 2005 and not in earlier periods, • pricing pressure on long distance rates that could continue to narrow the difference between revenue and cost of service, and • surges in revenue resulting from acquisitions of customer accounts that diminish in subsequent periods through customer attrition. Continued losses caused by these and other factors would diminish the working capital we have available to pursue implementation of our Network Application Provider business. Declines in our results of operations increases the risk of breaching financial covenants in our revolving credit facility, which could result in a default and accelerate maturity of the loan thereby depleting our working capital and likely making it impossible for us to fund our operations. Our results of operations and resulting cash flow have shown significant fluctuations over the past several years. In the past we did not have a revolving credit facility. In November 2005, we established a revolving credit facility under which we borrow against eligible receivables to fund our current working capital requirements. The revolving credit facility imposes certain financial covenants, including, that we achieve a fixed charge coverage ratio, measured monthly, of at least 0.4:1 for the calendar month ending June 30, 2006; 0.6:1 for the calendar month ending on July 31, 2006; 0.7:1 for the calendar months ending on August 31 and September 30, 2006; and 1:1 for the calendar month ending on October 31, 2006 and for each month thereafter.. The fixed charge coverage ratio is the ratio of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, 12 Table of Contents and amortization) less taxes paid in cash or accrued and non-financed capital expenditures, to our fixed charges, consisting of total debt service and dividends. Poor performance in our results of operations and cash flow in subsequent periods could result in a default in our financial covenants under the revolving credit facility, which would entitle the lender to suspend making further advances and accelerate maturity of the loan. Such an event would substantially deplete working capital available to fund our current operations and make it difficult for us to continue operating. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the pricing decisions of our competitors and our providers. We may not be able to mitigate this impact with our other services. Our costs of revenues from period to period are affected by the pricing for long distance service we can obtain from the wholesale providers of these services. We must price our services at levels that are competitive in the marketplace so costs of revenues affect the rates we offer to customers and our resulting revenues. This industry has a history of downward pressure on long distance service rates as a result of competition among providers. To acquire and retain customers, we offer these services at prices that are competitive in conjunction with the other benefits we provide. Consequently, falling prices will likely result in lowering our rates to customers, which will reduce revenues. On the other hand, higher prices charged by our providers will increase our costs of revenues and cut into gross profit margins unless we raise prices to our customers, which may be difficult for us to do if our competitors are not subject to the same upward pricing pressures or chose not to increase prices notwithstanding such pressure. To make up for potential reductions in either revenues or gross profits, we have moved to being a Network Application Provider of enhanced connectivity and call management services, which are not subject to rate changes and have much higher and stable margins. The Network Application Provider services we offer still make up a relatively small portion of our revenues. We may not be successful in making these new services a major component of our revenue mix and improve our gross margins. Disruptions in the operation of our technology could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent on our computer databases, billing and account computer programs, Internet protocol network, and computer hardware that houses these systems to effectively operate our business and market our services. Our customers and providers may become dissatisfied by any system failures that interrupt our ability to provide our service to them. Substantial or repeated system failures would significantly reduce the attractiveness of our services. Significant disruption in the operation of these systems would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our enhanced services are dependent on leased telecommunications lines, and a significant disruption or change in these services could adversely affect our business. The enhanced services we offer, such as automatic call distribution, fax to email, real time account management, and the inContact family of products, are provided to customers through a dedicated network of equipment we own connected through leased telecommunications lines with capacity dedicated to us that is based on Internet protocol. Communication initiated by the customer is converted to data packs that are transmitted through the dedicated network and managed by our software that resides on our equipment attached to the network. We also move a portion of our voice long distance service over this dedicated network because it lowers our cost of providing the service from using traditional transmission methods. We lease telecommunication lines and space at co-location facilities for our equipment, which represents the backbone of our dedicated network, from third party suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable or unwilling to provide or expand their current levels of service to us, the services we offer to customers would be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain substitute services from other providers at reasonable or comparable prices or in a timely fashion. Any resulting disruptions in the services we offer that are provided over our dedicated network would likely result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, pricing increases by any of the suppliers we rely on for the dedicated network could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass pricing increases through to our customers. Our business could be materially harmed if our computer systems were damaged. Substantially all of our dedicated network systems are located at three locations in Los Angeles, Salt Lake City and Dallas. Our customer service, billing, and service management systems are located at our offices in Bluffdale, Utah. Fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins, human error, or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our systems. Accordingly, any significant systems disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We use the Internet in various aspects of our business. The viability of the Internet as an information medium and commercial marketplace will depend in large part upon the stability and maintenance of the infrastructure for providing Internet access and carrying Internet traffic. Historically we have relied on the Internet for customer service and billing, and now we rely on the Internet to deliver our Network Application Provider services. Failure to develop a reliable network system or timely development and acceptance of complementary products, such as high-speed access systems, could materially harm our business. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet activity or due to increased government regulation. If the Internet does not remain a viable conduit for data and transactional traffic or the manner in which it now operates changes significantly, then our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to protect this confidential information could result in liability. If third parties succeed in penetrating our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customer information, we could be subject to liability. Our liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card or banking information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, as well as for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation and adverse publicity, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, and results of operations. Our growth and results of operations are unknown, which means an investment in us has greater risk. UCN experienced significant growth beginning in 2003, primarily through internal growth and the purchase of customer accounts. Continuing on with the acquisition of Transtel Communications assets and MyACD in 2005, we have substantially increased our operations and revenues. We cannot predict if or when another such acquisition opportunity may present itself. Consequently, it is not possible to predict with any certainty the growth of our business over the next year, whether internally or through acquisitions. Our ability to continue our growth and improve upon results of operations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to promote and gain market acceptance of our Network Application Provider services, to maintain and expand our independent agent network, to fund purchases of customers or acquisitions, to meet existing and emerging competition, and to maintain sufficient profit margins despite pricing pressures. Furthermore, the growth and development of our business may be harmed if we are unable to adapt and expand our systems, procedures, and controls to support and manage our growth. All of these factors indicate there could be fluctuations in our results of operations and volatility in our stock price that could expose an investor to greater risk. Our inability to promote our name and service could adversely affect the development of our business. Building recognition of our selected service and brand names is beneficial to attracting additional customers, obtaining favorable reseller agreements with providers of long distance and establishing strategic relationships with independent agents and businesses that can facilitate or enhance our service offerings and marketing efforts. Our failure to successfully establish, protect, promote, and maintain our service and brand names may result in slowed growth, loss of customers, loss of market share, and loss of strategic relationships. We may not be able to establish and promote our service and brand names as fully as we would like, which will affect the way we promote our service and brand name to enable us to be more competitive or improve our results of operations. Our development of enhanced services could subject us to claims of patent infringement that would adversely affect our results of operations. We offer enhanced telecommunications and related software services through our dedicated network. Certain enhanced services similar to some of the services we offer have been the subject of claims by certain patent holders that providing the enhanced services violates existing patent rights covering the manner and method by which the services are performed. We may not be aware of claims that have arisen alleging enhanced services we offer infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Infringement of intellectual property rights would have an adverse impact on the net revenue generated from sales of the enhanced services. Regulation of IP telephony services is unclear, so the imposition of significant regulation in the future could adversely affect our operations. We deliver our enhanced services and move other long distance service through our VoIP Network. At both the Federal and state level, proceedings and investigations are pending with respect to whether IP-enabled voice communications are telecommunications services subject to Federal and state regulation. A determination that such services are subject to regulation would likely increase the cost of services we provide, which would adversely affect our results of operations. It is unknown whether Federal or state governments will not impose regulation on IP-enabled communications in the future that would add substantially to our costs of doing business. 14 Table of Contents Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. As of December 31, 2005, we have 23,114,669 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 16,012,091 shares may be sold in the public market without restriction, and the balance of 7,102,578 shares may be sold subject to the volume, timing, and other conditions of Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have outstanding warrants, options and a convertible note to acquire a total of 4,465,003 additional shares that are registered for sale by the holders in the public market under current registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Assuming all these warrants, options, and rights are exercised, there would be 27,579,672 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We have also reserved for future issuance 1,643,154 additional shares of common stock as follows: • Up to 1,373,938 shares underlying other warrants and options that were granted and remained outstanding as of the date of this prospectus; and • Up to 269,216 shares reserved for issuance under our stock plans. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, which could adversely affect an investment in our stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. On the other hand, should the value or market price of our stock rise, the holders of these outstanding warrants, options, and convertible securities have the opportunity to profit, and to exercise purchase or conversion rights at a time when we could obtain equity capital on more favorable terms than those contained in these securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 