ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of risks we believe to be significant with respect to our business, operations, financial condition, and other matters pertaining to an investment in our common stock. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere as well as the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results of operations have shown significant losses over the past several years, which could impact the resources we have to pursue our business and adversely affect an investment in UCN. Our net loss applicable to common stockholders was $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $7.8 million for the same period in 2006. Continued losses will diminish the working capital we have available to pursue development of our business. Much of the loss in 2007 is attributable to our decision to spend substantial amounts in developing and marketing our inContact suite of services as well as noncash costs, such as depreciation and amortization of $6.2 million and warrant and stock-based compensation totaling $1.4 million. Sales within the inContact segment continue to improve, but we have not achieved positive operating results in the inContact segment and whether UCN will ultimately achieve positive results and cash flow from this segment should be considered a substantial risk with respect to our business. 13 Table of Contents We Have a Lengthy Product Sales Cycle Which Has Contributed and May Continue to Contribute to the Variability of Quarterly Operating Results We have experienced a lengthy initial sales and eventual “turn-up” cycle for services in our inContact segment, averaging approximately six to nine months. The lengthy sales cycle is one of the factors that has caused and may continue to cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As our inContact products and services are relatively new in the marketplace, we must provide a significant amount of education to prospective users about the use and benefits of our products which can cause potential users to take many months to make these decisions. The length of the sales cycle can also be affected by other factors over which we have little or no control, including user’s budgetary constraints, timing of user’s budget cycles, and concerns by the user about the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors. As a result, sales cycles for user orders vary substantially from user to user. Excessive delay in sales could be material and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing users, attract new users and satisfy our users’ requirements; • changes in the mix of revenue between our segments because the overall operating margin is significantly higher for the inContact Segment than for the Telecom Segment; • the timing and success of new product introductions or product initiation by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our users; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. Because the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our solutions is variable based on the specific user needs, we may experience a delay between increasing operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our budgeted expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the pricing decisions of our competitors and our providers. We may not be able to mitigate this impact with our other services. Our costs of revenues from period to period are affected by the pricing for long distance service we can obtain from the wholesale providers of these services. We must price our services at levels that are competitive, so costs of revenues affect the rates we offer to users and our resulting revenues. This industry has a history of downward pressure on long distance service rates as a result of competition among providers. To acquire and retain users, we offer these services at prices that are competitive in conjunction with the other benefits we provide. Consequently, falling prices will likely result in lowering our rates to users, which will reduce revenues. 14 Table of Contents On the other hand, higher prices charged by our providers will increase our costs of revenues and cut into operating results, unless we raise prices to our users, which may be difficult for us to do if our competitors are not subject to the same upward pricing pressures or choose not to increase prices notwithstanding such pressure. To make up for potential reductions in either revenues or overall operating results, we have moved to being a SaaS provider of enhanced connectivity and call management services, which are not subject to these rate changes and have much higher and stable margins. SaaS still makes up a relatively small portion of our revenues. We may not be successful in making these new services a major component of our revenue mix and improve our overall operating margins. Disruptions in the operation of our technology could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent on our computer databases, billing and accounting computer programs, network and computer hardware that houses these systems to effectively operate our business and market our services. Our users and providers may become dissatisfied by any system failures that interrupt our ability to provide our service to them. Substantial or repeated system failures would significantly reduce the attractiveness of our services. Significant disruption in the operation of these systems would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our enhanced services are dependent on leased telecommunications lines, and a significant disruption or change in these services could adversely affect our business. SaaS is provided to users through a dedicated network of equipment we own connected through leased telecommunications lines with capacity dedicated to us that is based on Internet protocol. Communication initiated by the user is converted to data packs that are transmitted through the dedicated network and managed by our software that resides on our equipment attached to the network. We also move a portion of our voice long distance service over this dedicated network because it lowers our cost of providing the service from using traditional transmission methods. We lease telecommunication lines and space at co-location facilities for our equipment, which represents the backbone of our dedicated network, from third party suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable or unwilling to provide or expand their current levels of service to us, the services we offer to users would be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain substitute services from other providers at reasonable or comparable prices or in a timely fashion. Any resulting disruptions in the services we offer that are provided over our dedicated network would likely result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, pricing increases by any of the suppliers we rely on for the dedicated network could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass pricing increases through to our users. Our business could be materially harmed if our computer systems were damaged. Substantially all of our dedicated network systems are located at two locations in Los Angeles, California and Dallas, Texas. Our user service, billing, and service management systems are located at a third-party hosting co-location facility located in Utah. Fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins, human error, or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our systems. Accordingly, any significant systems disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If there are interruptions or delays in our hosting services through third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with users and subject us to liability. We provide our hosting services through computer hardware that we own and that is currently located in third-party web hosting co-location facilities maintained and operated in California and Texas. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our hosting providers, and providers do not guarantee that our 15 Table of Contents users’ access to hosted solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on our providers’ ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Our back-up computer hardware and systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring simultaneously at all facilities. In the event that our hosting facility arrangements were terminated, or there was a lapse of service or accidental or willful damage to such facilities, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our hosting service as well as delays and/or additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Any or all of these events could cause our users to lose access to their important data. In addition, the failure by our third-party hosting facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our users’ service to their customers. Any interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with users and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause users to fail to continue service, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. If the security of our users’ confidential information contained in our systems or stored by use of our software is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our hosting service or our software may be perceived as not being secure and users may curtail or stop using our hosting service and our solutions. Our hosting systems and our software store and transmit proprietary information and critical data belonging to our users and their customers. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to a risk of information loss, litigation and other possible liabilities. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our clients’ data, our relationships with users and our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting co-location facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to protect this confidential information could result in liability. If outside unfriendly parties succeed in penetrating our network security or otherwise misappropriate our user information, we could be subject to liability. Our liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card or banking information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, as well as for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation and adverse publicity, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, and results of operations. Our growth and results of operations are unknown, which means an investment in us has greater risk. UCN experienced significant growth beginning in 2003, primarily through the purchase of user accounts and internal growth. Continuing with the acquisitions of BenchmarkPortal, Inc. and ScheduleQ, LLC in 2007 and the Transtel Communications assets and MyACD, Inc. in 2005, we have substantially increased our operations and revenues. It is not possible to predict with any certainty the growth of our business over the next year, whether internally or through acquisitions. Our ability to continue our growth and improve upon results of operations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to promote and gain market acceptance of 16 Table of Contents SaaS, to maintain and expand our independent agent network, to fund purchases of users or acquisitions, to meet existing and emerging competition and to maintain sufficient operating margins despite pricing pressures. Furthermore, the growth and development of our business may be harmed if we are unable to adapt and expand our systems, procedures, and controls to support and manage our growth. All of these factors indicate there could be fluctuations in our results of operations and volatility in our stock price that could expose an investor to greater risk. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. We may not be able to obtain any further patents or trademarks, and our pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents or trademarks. Any of our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights or could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could diminish international sales or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our development of enhanced services could subject us to claims of patent infringement that would adversely affect our results of operations. We offer enhanced telecommunications and related software services through our dedicated network. Certain enhanced services similar to some of the services we offer have been the subject of claims by certain patent holders that providing the enhanced services violates existing patent rights covering the manner and method by which the services are performed. We may not be aware of claims that have arisen alleging enhanced services we offer infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Infringement of intellectual property rights would have an adverse impact on the net revenue generated from sales of the enhanced services. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation will be harmed, our market share would decline and we could be subject to product liability claims. Our software products may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures, slow response times, or otherwise cause our products to fail to perform in accordance with user expectations. Because our users use our products for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our products could hurt our reputation and may damage our users’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales, or our existing users could elect to not renew or to delay or withhold payment to us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable. Clients also may make warranty claims against us, which could result in the expense and risk of litigation. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our products fails to perform or contains a technical defect, a user may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for the product failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. UCN has had no significant warranty costs in their historical experience. 17 Table of Contents Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such product liability claims. Also, our insurer may disclaim coverage. Our liability insurance also may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any product liability claims successfully brought against us would cause our business to suffer. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our user base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our user base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force and engage additional third-party channel partners. This expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if we are unable to hire and develop talented direct sales personnel, if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our third-party channel partners if we are unable to attract and retain additional motivated channel partners, if any existing or future channel partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our solutions for their customers, or if they represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services. Regulation of IP telephony services is unclear, so the imposition of significant regulation in the future could adversely affect our operations. We deliver our enhanced services and move other long distance service through our VoIP Network. At both the Federal and state level, proceedings and investigations are pending with respect to whether IP-enabled voice communications are telecommunications services subject to Federal and state regulation. A determination that such services are subject to regulation would likely increase the cost of services we provide, which would adversely affect our results of operations. It is unknown whether Federal or state governments will not impose regulation on IP-enabled communications in the future that would add substantially to our costs of doing business. The carrying value and liquidity of our short-term investments could be adversely affected by failed Dutch auction for auction rate investments. As of December 31, 2007, we held $2.0 million in auction rate preferred investments with investment grades of AAA. Interest rates for these investments reset in Dutch auctions held daily, weekly or monthly which historically provided liquidity for these investments as determined by the purchaser. Despite the long-term contractual maturities of the auction rate preferred investments, they are classified as available for sale and fund the Company’s current operations at December 31, 2007. During January and February 2008, we converted $1.0 million of the $2.0 million balance into cash equivalents. In February and March 2008, uncertainties in the credit markets caused all auctions of the remaining short term investments to be unsuccessful. An unsuccessful auction is an event when there are fewer securities bid for than are available for sale. To date, we have collected all interest payable on our auction rate preferred investments as the interest came due. If the auction rate preferred investments continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the issuer of the auction rate preferred investments or the third party insurer of the instruments deteriorates, we may be required to reclassify the securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and/or adjust the carrying value of the auction rate preferred investments through an impairment charge, which would adversely affect liquidity and availability of funds derived from these investments for our working capital needs. 18 Table of Contents We face risks relating to our ineffective internal controls that could adversely affect public confidence in UCN and the value of an investment in our shares. As a result of management’s review of issues identified during the recently completed independent Audit Committee investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters, as well as our internal review, we concluded that UCN had certain control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses and, consequently, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007. In addition, management has concluded, based primarily on the identification of the material weaknesses, that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at December 31, 2007. See “Part II – Item 9A—Controls and Procedures.” If we are unable to successfully remediate these control deficiencies in a timely manner, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future, and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. Our investigation and potential governmental investigations or litigation arising out of or related to our recent accounting and financial reporting matters have and could result in substantial costs. The independent Audit Committee investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters, as well as our internal review, have resulted in substantial costs to UCN. As a result of the matters management discovered through these investigations, UCN is exposed to the possibility of future governmental investigations or proceedings or litigation instigated by private litigants, any of which could cause UCN to incur substantial additional costs in the future to resolve or defend any such investigations or proceedings. See “Part II – Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Segment Reporting.” The costs already incurred related to the accounting and financial reporting matters that were the subject of our investigations will adversely affect our results of operations in 2008, and any additional costs we may incur in the future will have the same effect. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We may require additional capital to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures and acquire complementary businesses, products and technologies. Absent sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds to meet our operating and capital needs. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. As of December 31, 2007, we have 31,015,593 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 24,130,618 shares may be sold in the public market without restriction, and the balance of 6,884,975 shares may be sold subject to SEC rules and removal of such restriction. 19 Table of Contents We have outstanding warrants and options to acquire a total of 5,631,504 additional shares of common stock. Assuming all these warrants and options are exercised, there would be 36,647,097 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We have also reserved for future issuance 1,122,350 shares of common stock as follows: • Up to 122,350 shares reserved for issuance under our Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan; and • Up to 1,000,000 shares reserved for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline, which could adversely affect an investment in our stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. On the other hand, should the value or market price of our stock rise, the holders of these outstanding warrants, options, and convertible securities have the opportunity to profit, and to exercise purchase or conversion rights at a time when we could obtain equity capital on more favorable terms than those contained in these securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 