ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of risks we believe to be significant with respect to our business, operations, financial condition, and other matters pertaining to our business and an investment in our common stock. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere as well as the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results of operations have shown significant losses over the past several years, which could impact the resources we have to pursue our business and adversely affect an investment in inContact. Our net loss was $5.4 million, $9.9 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Continued losses will diminish the working capital we have available to pursue development of our business. Sales within the Software segment continue to improve, but we have not achieved positive annual operating results and whether inContact will ultimately achieve positive results and cash flow should be considered a substantial risk with respect to our business. The stability and growth of our revenues depends on our ability to attract and retain on-going customers. The revenue model for companies selling software services under the cloud model, such as inContact, is to attract and retain customers who purchase services under contracts providing for monthly or periodic charges. Our ability to increase and maintain revenue depends substantially on the efficacy of our contact center and call routing solutions and maintaining customer satisfaction. Our failure to deliver services our customers need and want, and to keep our customers satisfied, would adversely affect our results or operations. Incremental revenue from reseller partners and international sales may not exceed expenditures, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In 2011 and 2012, we expended a significant amount of money to develop our infrastructure and international delivery systems to be able to serve new customers we expect will come from the reseller sales channel established in 2011 and new sales opportunities we hope to develop in the future. We expect to make additional expenditures for this purpose in 2013 and 2014. Revenue from our reseller arrangements beyond July 2014 may not be sufficient to cover our investment in infrastructure and facilities or our continuing cost of operating the expanded service capacity, which would have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force and engage additional third-party channel partners. This expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if we are unable to hire and develop talented direct sales personnel, if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve 14 Table of Contents desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our third-party channel partners if we are unable to attract and retain additional motivated channel partners, if any existing or future channel partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our solutions for their users, or if they represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services. We have a lengthy product sales cycle, which has contributed and may continue to contribute to the variability of quarterly operating results. We have experienced a lengthy initial sales and eventual “turn-up” cycle for our inContact portfolio in our Software segment, averaging approximately five to eight months. The lengthy sales cycle is one of the factors that has caused and may continue to cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As our inContact portfolio is relatively new in the marketplace, we must provide a significant amount of education to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products and services, which can cause potential customers to take many months to make these decisions. The length of the sales cycle can also be affected by other factors over which we have little or no control, including customer budgetary constraints, timing of customer budget cycles, and concerns by the customer about the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors. As a result, sales cycles for customer orders vary substantially from customer to customer. Excessive delay in sales could be significant and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • Our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements; • Changes in the mix of revenue between our segments because the gross margin is significantly higher for the Software segment than for the Telecom segment; • The timing and success of new product introductions and enhancements or product initiation by us or our competitors; • Changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • The amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations; • The purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; and • General economic, industry and market conditions. Because the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our solutions is variable based on the specific customer needs, we may experience a delay between increasing operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our budgeted expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 15 Table of Contents Our growth and results of operations are unknown, which means an investment in us has greater risk. It is not possible to predict with any certainty the growth of our business over the next year. Our ability to continue our growth and improve our results of operations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to promote and gain market acceptance of cloud software solutions, to maintain and expand our independent agent network, to fund maintenance and expansion of infrastructure to service our customers, to meet existing and emerging competition, and to maintain sufficient operating margins despite pricing pressures. Furthermore, the growth and development of our business may be harmed if we are unable to adapt and expand our systems, procedures and controls to support and manage our growth. All of these factors indicate there could be fluctuations in our results of operations and volatility in our stock price that could expose an investor to greater risk. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the pricing decisions of our competitors and our providers. We may not be able to mitigate this impact with our other services. Our costs of revenues in our Telecom segment from period to period are affected by the pricing for long distance service we can obtain from the wholesale providers of these services. We must price our services at levels that are competitive, so costs of revenues affect the rates we offer to customers and our resulting revenues. This industry has a history of downward pressure on long distance service rates as a result of competition among providers. To acquire and retain customers, we offer these services at prices that are competitive in conjunction with the other benefits we provide. Consequently, falling prices will likely result in lowering our rates to users, which will reduce revenues. On the other hand, higher prices charged by our providers will increase our costs of revenues and cut into operating results, unless we raise prices to our customers, which may be difficult for us to do if our competitors are not subject to the same upward pricing pressures or choose not to increase prices notwithstanding such pressure. Our strategy is to mitigate the impact of pricing pressure in the Telecom segment by increasing Software segment revenue, which is not subject to these rate changes and has much higher margins. We may not be successful in making these cloud software solutions a majority of our revenue mix and improve our overall operating margins. Disruptions in the operation of our technology could adversely affect our operations. We are dependent on our computer databases, billing and accounting computer programs, network and computer hardware that houses these systems to effectively operate our business and market our services. Our customers and providers may become dissatisfied by any system failures that interrupt our ability to provide our service to them. Substantial or repeated system failures would significantly reduce the attractiveness of our services. Significant disruption in the operation of these systems would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our enhanced services are dependent on leased telecommunications lines, and a significant disruption or change in these services could adversely affect our business. Our inContact portfolio of cloud software solutions are provided to customers through a dedicated network of equipment we own connected through leased telecommunications lines with capacity dedicated to us that is based on Internet protocol. Communication initiated by the user is converted to data packs that are transmitted through the dedicated network and managed by our software that resides on our equipment attached to the network. We also move a portion of our voice long distance service over this dedicated network because it lowers our cost of providing the service from using traditional transmission methods. We lease telecommunication lines and space at co-location facilities for our equipment from third-party suppliers, which represents the backbone of our dedicated network. If any of these suppliers is unable or unwilling to provide or expand their current levels of service to us, the services we offer to customers would be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain substitute services from other providers at reasonable or comparable prices or in a timely fashion. Any resulting disruptions in the services we offer that are provided over 16 Table of Contents our dedicated network would likely result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, pricing increases by any of the suppliers we rely on for the dedicated network could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass pricing increases through to our customers. If there are interruptions or delays in our services through third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with customers and subject us to liability. We provide our services through computer hardware that we own and that is currently located in third-party web hosting co-location facilities maintained and operated in California, Texas, Utah, Germany, England, Hong Kong and the Philippines. Our hosting providers do not guarantee that our customers’ access to hosted solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on our providers’ ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Our back-up computer hardware and systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring simultaneously at all facilities. In the event that our hosting facility arrangements were terminated, or there was a lapse of service or accidental or willful damage to such facilities, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service as well as delays and/or additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to the services they are purchasing from us. In addition, the failure by our third-party hosting facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our customers’ service to their customers. Any interruptions or delays in our services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause customers to fail to continue service, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. If the security of our customers’ confidential information contained in our systems or stored by use of our software is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our service or our software may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service and our solutions. Our systems and software store and transmit proprietary information and critical data belonging to our customers and their users. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to a risk of information loss, litigation and other possible liabilities. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our clients’ data, our relationships with customers and our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting co-location facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If outside unfriendly parties succeed in penetrating our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customer information, we could be subject to liability. Our liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card or banking information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, as well as for other misuses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation and adverse publicity, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. As we continue to gain higher profile customers, the risk that unfriendly parties will attempt and succeed in penetrating our network security also increases. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our long-term capital needs. We may determine that additional capital will be necessary in responding to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses, products and technologies, or for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding to pursue our business objectives. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of the Company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright, patent, and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. We may not be able to obtain any further trademarks, and our pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents or trademarks. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could affect our ability to expand to international markets or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our development of enhanced services could subject us to claims of patent infringement that would adversely affect our results of operations. We offer enhanced telecommunications and related software services through our dedicated network. Certain enhanced services similar to some of the services we offer have been the subject of claims by certain patent holders that providing the enhanced services violates existing patent rights covering the manner and method by which the services are performed. We may not be aware of claims that have arisen alleging enhanced services we offer infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Infringement of intellectual property rights would have an adverse impact on the net revenue generated from sales of the enhanced services. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation could be harmed, our market share may decline and we could be subject to product liability claims. Our software products and services may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures, slow response times, or otherwise cause our products to fail to perform in accordance with customer expectations. Because our customers use our products and services for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our products and services could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales, or our existing customers could 18 Table of Contents elect to not renew or to delay or withhold payment to us, which could result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible accounts and an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable. Clients also may make warranty claims against us, which could result in the expense and risk of litigation. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our products fails to perform or contains a technical defect, a customer may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for the product failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. inContact has had no significant warranty costs in our historical experience. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such product liability claims. Also, our insurer may disclaim coverage. Our liability insurance also may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any product liability claims successfully brought against us would cause our business to suffer. We provide service level commitments to our customers, which could cause us to provide credits for future services if the stated service levels are not met for a given period and could significantly harm our revenue. Our customer agreements provide service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our service, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future services. Our revenue could be significantly impacted if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our customers. In light of our historical experience with meeting our service level commitments, we do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments. The failure to meet this level of service availability may require us to credit qualifying customers for the value of an entire month of their subscription fees, not just the value of the subscription fee for the period of the downtime. As a result, a failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could cause us to issue these credits to all qualifying customers. Any extended service outages could harm our reputation, revenue and operating results. We may become subject to state regulation for certain service offerings, which could increase our cost of doing business. Certain states take the position that offerings by VoIP companies are intrastate and therefore subject to state regulation. These states argue that if the beginning and end points of communications are known, and if some of these communications occur entirely within the boundaries of a state, the state can regulate that offering. We believe that the FCC has pre-empted states from regulating VoIP offerings in the same manner as providers of traditional telecommunications services. We cannot predict how this issue will be resolved or its impact on our business at this time. We rely on third party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our public switched telephone network calls, so significant failures in these networks could be detrimental to our operations. We leverage the infrastructure of third party network service providers to provide telephone numbers, PSTN call termination and origination services, and local number portability for our customers rather than deploying our own network throughout the United States. If any of these network service providers cease operations or otherwise terminate the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another network service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 19 Table of Contents New regulation of the Internet by governmental agencies could adversely affect the way we operate or increase our cost of doing business. In addition to regulations addressing Internet telephony and broadband services, other regulatory issues relating to the Internet, in general, could affect our ability to provide our services. Congress has adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the Internet including online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. In addition, a number of initiatives pending in Congress and state legislatures would prohibit or restrict advertising or sale of certain products and services on the Internet, which may have the effect of raising the cost of doing business on the Internet generally. Federal, state, local and foreign governmental organizations are considering other legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate and/or tax applications running over the Internet. We cannot predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending on the type of taxes imposed, whether and how our services would be affected thereafter. Increased regulation of the Internet may decrease its growth and hinder technological development, which may negatively impact the cost of doing business via the Internet or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are expanding the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States so our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. In 2010, we opened up offices outside of the United States and currently have operations, sales personnel or independent consultants in several foreign countries. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that our services and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful, which could result in us not meeting our revenue goals. Operating in international markets also requires management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing, acquiring or integrating operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These may include: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • Difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • General economic conditions in international markets, including the ongoing global economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the global financial markets, which may cause a decline in customer or consumer activity; • Localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • Dependence on certain third parties to increase customer sales; • The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws and regulations related to privacy and telecommunications; • Compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act: • Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • Increased risk for international telecom fraud; • Political instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • Reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 20 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Regulation of IP telephony services is unclear, so the imposition of significant regulation in the future could adversely affect our operations. We deliver our inContact portfolio of cloud contact center solutions and move other long distance service through our VoIP Network. We view government regulation as one of the conditions of the environment within which we conduct business that does impact, and will continue to impact, our business as we endeavor to comply with existing regulation and what may come in the future. At both the federal and state level there are initiatives, proposals, proceedings and investigations pending with respect to telecommunications and the Internet that we describe in some detail above in the “Government Regulation” section of ITEM 1. BUSINESS. This section describes areas where the regulatory landscape could change and significantly impact our business, and you should review that section carefully. Our failure to anticipate, plan for, and comply with new regulation as it comes along on a cost effective basis is a continuing risk of our business that could have a significant adverse effect on our business activity and results of operations. Our ability to offer services outside the U.S. is subject to different local regulatory environments, which may be unknown, complicated and uncertain. Regulatory treatment of enhanced communications services outside the United States varies from country to country and often the laws are unclear. We currently distribute our products and services directly to consumers and through resellers and channel partners that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. The failure by us or our customers, resellers and channel partners to comply with these laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability. Because of our relationship with the resellers and channel partners, some countries may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications provider in that country. In such case, our failure to do so could subject us to fines or penalties. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting enhanced communication services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. Regulatory developments such as these could have an adverse effect on the use of our services in international locations. Increased taxes or fees on our service will increase our customers’ cost of using our service and/or reduce our profit margins (to the extent the costs are not passed through to our customers) and we may be subject to liabilities for past sales and additional taxes, surcharges and fees. The tax and fee structure relative to enhanced communications services is complex, ambiguous and subject to interpretation. Based on its interpretation of applicable law, the Company believes that it has either remitted or accrued for all taxes and regulatory fees owed as a result of its operations. If, however, taxing and regulatory authorities arrive at different interpretations of applicable law, our ultimate liability could exceed the amount the Company has remitted and accrued. In addition, the collection of additional taxes, fees or surcharges in the future could have the effect of increasing our prices or reduce our profit margins. Compliance with these regulations may also make us less competitive with those competitors who choose not to comply with the regulations. Our emergency and E-911 calling services are different from those offered by traditional wireline telephone companies and may expose us to significant liability. There may be risks associated with limitations associated with E-911 emergency dialing with our service. To the extent we are obligated to provide E-911 and emergency calling services for specific offerings, both services are different, in significant respects, from the emergency calling services offered by traditional wireline telephone companies. In each case, the differences may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. 21 Table of Contents On June 1, 2007, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in which it tentatively concluded that all interconnected VoIP service providers that allow customers to use their service in more than one location (nomadic VoIP service providers such as us) must utilize an automatic location technology that meets the same accuracy standards which apply to providers of commercial mobile radio services (mobile phone service providers). This was followed by a service of inquiries and FCC NPRMs concerning the applicability and implementation of E-911 requirements to VoIP services. The FCC may determine that our nomadic emergency calling solution does not satisfy the requirements of its VoIP E-911 order because, in some instances, our nomadic emergency calling solution requires that we route an emergency call to a national emergency call center instead of connecting our customers directly to a local PSAP through a dedicated connection and through the appropriate selective router. The FCC may issue further guidance on compliance requirements in the future that might require us to disconnect those customers not receiving access to emergency services in a manner consistent with the VoIP E-911 order. The effect of such disconnections, monetary penalties, cease and desist orders or other enforcement actions initiated by the FCC or other agency or task force against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In late July 2008, the President signed into law the “New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008.” The law provides public safety, interconnected VoIP providers and others involved in handling 911 calls the same liability protections when handling 911 calls from interconnected VoIP users as from mobile or wired telephone service users. The applicability of these laws and regulations to an enhanced call center offering remains unclear. Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of the answering point to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number can result in life threatening consequences. Customers may, in the future, attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result of any failure of our E-911 services. The FCC adopted orders reforming the system of payments between regulated carriers that we partner with to interface with the public switch telephone network. The rates we pay for the services performed by these carriers may increase as a result of the FCC’s reform order. As a result, we may increase rates for service, making our offerings less competitive with others in the marketplace, or reduce our profitability. The FCC reformed the system under which providers of telecommunications services compensate each other for transporting and/or terminating various types of traffic, including VoIP traffic that terminates on the PSTN and applied new call signaling requirements to VoIP and other service providers. The FCC’s rules concerning charges for transmission or termination of VoIP traffic could result in an increased cost to terminate the traffic absent specific agreements that include a rate for VoIP-PSTN traffic when exchanged between us and other carriers. For VoIP traffic that terminates on the PSTN, the Order establishes a transitional framework that establishes default intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP-PSTN traffic that are equal to the rates applicable to non-VoIP traffic and allows regulated providers of telecommunications services to tariff these default charges in the relevant federal and state tariffs that apply in the absence of an agreement. The rules also establish a multiyear transition to a national “bill- and-keep” framework as the ultimate end state for traffic exchanged with a local exchange carrier. Under bill- and-keep, providers do not charge one another for terminating traffic and instead recover the costs of termination from their own customers. To the extent that the company transmits VoIP traffic that is not subject to an existing intercarrier compensation arrangement and another provider imposes higher intercarrier compensation charges than we, or the third parties terminating our traffic to the PSTN, pay today, our termination costs could initially increase. In the near term, this change could result in us either increasing our retail charges for services to our customers or, reducing our profitability. However, over the longer term, we expect our costs to terminate traffic to the PSTN to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 22 Table of Contents 