Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and throughout this report, which could materially affect our business. There are also risks that are not presently known or not presently material, as well as the other information set forth in this report that could materially affect our business. In addition, in our periodic filings with the SEC, press releases and other statements, we discuss estimates and projections regarding our future performance and business outlook. By their nature, such “forward-looking statements” involve known and unknown risks, 17uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. For a further discussion of forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our present expectations and projections. These risk factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following:RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSAn adverse development regarding our products could have a material and adverse impact on our future revenues and profitability.A number of factors may impact the effectiveness of our marketing and sales activities and the demand for our products, including:•Changes in intellectual property protection available for our products or competing treatments; •Any unfavorable publicity concerning us, our products, or the markets for these products such as information concerning product contamination or other safety issues in any of our product markets, whether or not directly involving our products;•Perception by physicians and other members of the healthcare community of the safety or efficacy of our products or competing products;•Regulatory developments related to our marketing and promotional practices or the manufacture or continued use of our products;•The prices of our products relative to other drugs or competing treatments;•The availability and level of third-party reimbursement for sales of our products; and•The continued availability of adequate supplies of our products to meet demand.If demand for our products weaken, our revenues and profitability will likely decline. Known adverse effects of our marketed products are documented in product labeling, including the product package inserts, medical information disclosed to medical professionals and all marketing-related materials. At this time, no unforeseen or serious adverse effects outside of those specified in current product labeling have been directly attributed to our approved products.We currently market and sell three products: Caldolor, Acetadote and Kristalose. A product contamination or other safety or regulatory issues, such as a failure to meet certain FDA reporting requirements involving our products could negatively impact us and possibly lead to a product recall. In addition, changes impacting any of our products in areas such as competition, lack of market acceptance or demand, government regulation, intellectual property, reimbursement and manufacturing could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and profitability.In 2011, the FDA issued a press announcement asking manufacturers of prescription combination products that contain acetaminophen to limit the amount of acetaminophen to no more than 325 milligrams (mg) in each tablet or capsule. The FDA also is requiring manufacturers to update labels of all prescription combination acetaminophen products to warn of the potential risk for severe liver injury. The actions the FDA is taking for prescription acetaminophen combination products do not affect over-the-counter acetaminophen products. The FDA's regulation of acetaminophen in prescription combination products and over-the-counter products may reduce the number of acetaminophen overdoses which could result in a lower demand for Acetadote. If the demand for Acetadote decreases, it could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and profitability. Caldolor was approved by the FDA in June 2009, and we started commercializing Caldolor in the United States in September 2009. The commercial success of Caldolor is dependent on many third-parties, including physicians, pharmacists, hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees, or P&T committees, suppliers and distributors, all of whom we have little or no control over. We expect Caldolor to be administered primarily to hospitalized patients who are unable to receive oral therapies for the treatment of pain or fever. Before we can distribute Caldolor to any new hospital customers, Caldolor must be approved for addition to the hospitals’ formulary lists by their P&T committees. A hospital’s P&T committee generally 18governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including review of medication formulary data and recommendations of drugs to the medical staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in getting the approvals we need from enough P&T committees to be able to optimize hospital sales of Caldolor. Even if we obtain hospital approval for Caldolor, we must still convince individual hospital physicians to prescribe Caldolor repeatedly. Because Caldolor is a new drug, any mistakes made in the timely supply of Caldolor, education about how to properly administer Caldolor or any unexpected side effects that develop from use of the drug, may lead physicians to not accept Caldolor as a viable treatment alternative. The commercial success of Caldolor also depends on our ability to coordinate supply, distribution, marketing, sales and education efforts. We have set a price for Caldolor that we believe hospitals and other purchasers are willing to pay, but that will also generate sufficient profits. If we have set a price for Caldolor that hospitals consider too high, we may need to subsequently reduce the price for Caldolor. As with our other products, if the price for Caldolor is not accepted in the marketplace, it could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and profitability.If any manufacturer we rely upon fails to produce our products in the amounts we require on a timely basis, or fails to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenues.We do not manufacture any of our products, and we do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of products could adversely affect our profit margins or our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to sell our products as planned. Furthermore, if we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers in producing our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products could be adversely affected.Caldolor is manufactured at Hospira Australia Pty. Ltd.’s facility in Australia and Bayer’s facility in Kansas. Acetadote is manufactured primarily at Bayer’s facility in Kansas and Mylan’s manufacturing plant in Ireland is an alternative manufacturing source for Acetadote. The active pharmaceutical ingredient for Kristalose is manufactured at a single facility in Italy. If any one of these facilities is damaged or destroyed, or if local conditions result in a work stoppage, we could suffer an inability to meet demand for our products. Kristalose is manufactured through a complex process. It would be particularly difficult to find a new manufacturer of Kristalose on an expedited basis. As a result of these factors, our ability to manufacture Kristalose may be substantially impaired if the manufacturer is unable or unwilling to supply sufficient quantities of the product.In addition, all manufacturers of our products and product candidates must comply with current good manufacturing practices, referred to as cGMP, enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements.We have no control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If our third-party manufacturers do not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to:•fines and civil penalties;•suspension of production or distribution;•suspension or delay in product approval;•product seizure or recall; and•withdrawal of product approval.We are dependent on a variety of other third parties. If these third parties fail to perform as we expect, our operations could be disrupted and our financial results could suffer.We have a relatively small internal infrastructure. We rely on a variety of third parties, other than our third-party manufacturers, to help us operate our business. Other third parties on which we rely include:•Cardinal Health Specialty Pharmaceutical Services, a logistics and fulfillment company and business unit of Cardinal, which warehouses and ships our marketed products and•Vanderbilt University and the Tennessee Technology Development Corporation, co-owners with us of CET, and the universities that collaborate with us in connection with CET's research and development programs.19If these third parties do not continue to provide services to us, or collaborate with us, we might not be able to obtain others who can serve these functions. This could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating expenses or otherwise adversely affect our operating results.Competitive pressures could reduce our revenues and profits.The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive. Our strategy is to target differentiated products in specialized markets. However, this strategy does not relieve us from competitive pressures and can entail distinct competitive risks. Certain of our competitors do not aggressively promote their products in our markets. An increase in promotional activity in our markets could result in large shifts in market share, adversely affecting us.Our competitors may sell or develop drugs that are more effective and useful or less costly than ours, and they may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Additional competitors may enter our markets.The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by constant and significant investment in new product development, which can result in rapid technological change. The introduction of new products could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products tend to decline as competition increases, through new product introduction or otherwise, which could reduce our revenues and profitability.Governmental and private healthcare payors emphasize substitution of branded pharmaceuticals with less expensive generic equivalents. An increase in the sales of generic pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in revenues of our branded pharmaceuticals.Any attempt by us to expand the potential market for any of our products is subject to limitations.Expansion of the market for our products may be subject to certain limitations. For example, in its June 2009 Caldolor approval letter, the FDA required us to conduct two additional Phase IV pediatric studies by 2011 and 2012, respectively. If the results of these Phase IV clinical studies are not favorable, we may not be able to expand the market for Caldolor to children ages 1-16. We may also experience delays associated with these required Phase IV clinical studies potentially resulting from, among other factors, difficulty enrolling pediatric patients. Such delays could impact our ability to obtain an additional six months of FDA exclusivity.In addition, we have only obtained regulatory approval to market our products in the United States. In foreign jurisdictions, we have licensed the right to market some of our products to third parties. These third parties are responsible for seeking regulatory approval for the products in their respective jurisdictions. We have no control over these third parties and cannot be sure that marketing approval for our products will be obtained outside the United States.Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire rights to products. If we do not successfully identify and acquire rights to products and successfully integrate them into our operations, our growth opportunities may be limited.We acquired rights to Caldolor, Acetadote, Kristalose and Hepatoren. Our business strategy is to continue to acquire rights to FDA-approved products as well as pharmaceutical product candidates in the late stages of development. We do not plan to conduct basic research or pre-clinical product development, except to the extent of our investment in CET. As compared to large multi-national pharmaceutical companies, we have limited resources to acquire third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Many acquisition opportunities involve competition among several potential purchasers including large multi-national pharmaceutical companies and other competitors that have access to greater financial resources than we do. With future acquisitions, we may face financial and operational risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to engage in future product acquisitions, and those we do complete may not be beneficial to us in the long term.Furthermore, other products in development may encounter unforeseen issues during their clinical trials. Any unforeseen issues or lack of FDA approval will negatively affect marketing and development plans for those products.Our Hepatoren product candidate has not been approved for sale and may never be successfully commercialized.We anticipate that a portion of our future revenue growth will come from sales of our Hepatoren product candidate. Hepatoren, which is injectable ifetroban, is a drug used to treat HRS. However, Hepatoren has not been approved by the FDA for marketing, and it is still subject to risks associated with its development. The FDA has cleared our IND for this product candidate and we have initiated a Phase II dose escalation clinical study to evaluate Hepatoren for the treatment of HRS. We have commenced manufacturing and have filed patent applications to protect intellectual property related to the new indication. Delays in the completion of the clinical study could significantly 20delay commercial launch and affect our product development costs. Moreover, results from the clinical study may not be favorable.Even if Hepatoren is eventually successfully developed and approved by the FDA, it may never gain significant acceptance in the marketplace and therefore never generate substantial revenue or profits for us. Physicians may determine that existing drugs are adequate to address patients' needs. The extent to which Hepatoren will be reimbursed by the U.S. government or third-party payors is also currently unknown.As a result of the foregoing and other factors, we do not know the extent to which Hepatoren will contribute to our future growth.If we are unable to maintain, train and build an effective sales and marketing infrastructure, we will not be able to commercialize and grow our products and product candidates successfully.As we grow, we may not be able to secure sales personnel or organizations that are adequate in number or expertise to successfully market and sell our products. This risk would be accentuated if we acquire products in areas outside of hospital acute care and gastroenterology since our sales forces specialize in these areas. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capability, train our sales force effectively or provide any other capabilities necessary to commercialize our products and product candidates, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell our products. We must train our employees on proper regulatory compliance, including, but not limited to, “fair balance” promotion of our products and anti-kickback laws. If we are unable to establish and maintain compliant and adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to increase our product revenue, may generate increased expenses, may have regulatory compliance issues and may not continue to be profitable.If governmental or third-party payors do not provide adequate reimbursement for our products, our revenue and prospects for continued profitability may be limited.Our financial success depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors. Such third-party payors include governmental health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services, while governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals.In March 2010, the U.S. government passed into law and enacted the PPACAt, as amended by the HCERA, or collectively the Healthcare Reform Act. Among other provisions, the Healthcare Reform Act calls for an increase in certain Medicare drug rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and an industry fee imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers according to the individual manufacturer’s relative percentage of total industry sales to specified government programs. At this time no assurances can be given that these measures, or any other measures included in the Healthcare Reform Act, will not have an adverse effect on our revenues in the future. Furthermore, future cost control initiatives, legislation and regulations could decrease the price that we would receive for any products, which would limit our revenue and profitability.Also, reimbursement practices of third-party payors might preclude us from achieving market acceptance for our products or maintaining price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product acquisition and development. If we cannot obtain adequate reimbursement levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.Our employees have been trained to submit accurate and correct pricing information to payors. If, despite the training, our employees provide incorrect or fraudulent information, then we will be subject to various administrative and judicial investigations and litigation.“Formulary” practices of third-party payors could adversely affect our competitive position.Many managed healthcare organizations are now controlling the pharmaceutical products listed on their formulary lists. Having products listed on these formulary lists creates competition among pharmaceutical companies which, in turn, has created a trend of downward pricing pressure in our industry. In addition, many managed care organizations are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs and are considering formulary contracts primarily with those pharmaceutical companies that can offer a full line of products for a given therapy sector or disease state. Our products might not be included on the formulary lists of managed care organizations, and downward pricing pressure in our industry generally could negatively impact our operations.21Continued consolidation of distributor networks in the pharmaceutical industry as well as increases in retailer concentration may limit our ability to profitably sell our products.We sell most of our products to large pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn sell to, thereby supplying, hospitals and retail pharmacies. The distribution network for pharmaceutical products has become increasingly consolidated in recent years. Further consolidation or financial difficulties could also cause our customers to reduce the amounts of our products that they purchase, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our CET joint initiative may not result in our gaining access to commercially viable products.Our CET joint initiative with Vanderbilt University and Tennessee Technology Development Corporation is designed to help us investigate, in a cost-effective manner, early-stage products and technologies. However, we may never gain access to commercially viable products from CET for a variety of reasons, including:•CET investigates early-stage products, which have the greatest risk of failure prior to FDA approval and commercialization;•In some programs, we do not have pre-set rights to product candidates developed by CET. We would need to agree with CET and its collaborators on the terms of any product licensed to, or acquired by, us;•We rely principally on government grants to fund CET’s research and development programs. If these grants were no longer available, we or our co-owners might be unable or unwilling to fund CET operations at current levels or at all;•We may become involved in disputes with our co-owners regarding CET policy or operations, such as how best to deploy CET assets or which product opportunities to pursue. Disagreement could disrupt or halt product development; and•CET may disagree with one of the various universities with which CET is collaborating on research. A disagreement could disrupt or halt product development.We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business will be materially harmed.We are a relatively small company, and we depend to a great extent on principal members of our management and scientific staff. If we lose the services of any key personnel, in particular, A.J. Kazimi, our Chief Executive Officer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. Mr. Kazimi, plays a key role in several operational and strategic decisions such that any loss of his services due to death or disability would adversely effect our day-to-day operations. We currently have a key man life insurance policy covering the life of Mr. Kazimi. We have entered into agreements with each of our employees that contain restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation of our customers and suppliers for one year after termination of employment. Nevertheless, each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason, and so as a practical matter these agreements do not guarantee the continued service of these employees. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we experience difficulties in hiring and retaining personnel in key positions, we could suffer from delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results.The size of our organization and our potential growth may lead to difficulties in managing operations.As of December 31, 2012, we had 106 full-time employees. We may need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to increase our marketing efforts with regard to our currently marketed products, continue our business development and product development activities and commercialize our product candidates. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, growth and increased expenses in the scope of our operations in connection with the continued marketing and development of our products. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any such growth and expenses of the current organization effectively.We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization.We face an inherent risk of product liability lawsuits related to the testing of our product candidates and the commercial sale of our products. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates or products causes, 22or appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we may incur substantial liabilities. Liability claims may result in:•decreased demand for our products;•injury to our reputation;•withdrawal of clinical trial participants;•significant litigation costs;•substantial monetary awards to or costly settlement with patients;•product recalls;•loss of revenue; and•the inability to commercialize our product candidates.We are highly dependent upon medical and patient perceptions of us and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or our products are subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products sold by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to patients. Also, because of our dependence upon medical and patient perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products sold by other companies could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials and the marketing and sale of our products up to a $10 million annual aggregate limit, subject to specified deductibles. Our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us.Because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated.Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected.While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for some patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market, require a recall or institute fines, or could result in disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business.Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or adverse events at our corporate headquarters.Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems, including those at our corporate headquarters, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. In the event that our corporate headquarters and/or our computer systems are disabled or materially damaged, it would have a substantial and material negative effect on our operations. Furthermore, any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our products or product candidates may be delayed.23RISKS RELATING TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONWe are subject to stringent government regulation. All of our products face regulatory challenges.Virtually all aspects of our business activities are regulated by government agencies. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution, promotion and sampling, advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities are subject to governmental regulation. These activities are regulated by one or more of the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, as well as by comparable agencies in foreign countries. These activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. For more information, see “Business—Government Regulation.Like all pharmaceutical manufacturers, we are subject to regulation by the FDA under the FDCA. All new drugs must be the subject of an FDA-approved new drug application, or NDA, before they may be marketed in the United States. The FDA has the authority to withdraw existing NDA approvals and to review the regulatory status of products marketed under the enforcement policy. The FDA may require an approved NDA for any drug product marketed under the enforcement policy if new information reveals questions about the drug’s safety and effectiveness. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with cGMP, and drug products subject to an approved NDA must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the NDA. Since we rely on third parties to manufacture our products, cGMP requirements directly affect our third party manufacturers and indirectly affect us. The manufacturing facilities of our third-party manufacturers are continually subject to inspection by such governmental agencies, and manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in any such facilities if such inspections prove unsatisfactory. Our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure such compliance.Pharmaceutical products must be distributed, sampled and promoted in accordance with FDA requirements. We must train our employees on proper regulatory compliance, including, but not limited to, “fair balance” promotion of our products and anti-kickback laws. The FDA also regulates the advertising of prescription drugs. The FDA has the authority to request post-approval commitments that can be time-consuming and expensive.Under the FDCA, the federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. Those powers include, but are not limited to, the authority to initiate court action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, and to seek civil monetary and criminal penalties. The initiation of any of these enforcement activities, including the restriction or prohibition on sales of our products, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or statutes or legal interpretation, when and if promulgated or enacted, may have on our business in the future. Such changes, or new legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Proposed legislation may permit re-importation of drugs from other countries into the U.S., including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S., which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition.In previous years, legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the U.S., which may include re-importation from foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any approved products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition.24RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYOur strategy to secure and extend marketing exclusivity or patent rights may provide only limited protection from competition.We seek to secure and extend marketing exclusivity for our products through a variety of means, including FDA exclusivity and patent rights. Additional barriers for competitors seeking to enter the market include the time and cost associated with the development, regulatory approval and manufacturing of a similar product formulation. Acetadote is indicated to prevent or lessen hepatic (liver) injury when administered intravenously within eight to ten hours after ingesting quantities of acetaminophen that are potentially toxic to the liver. As discussed in Part I, Item 1, Business - Trademarks, Patents and Proprietary Rights, of this Form 10-K, in April 2012, the USPTO issued the Acetadote Patent which is assigned to us and is scheduled to expire in May 2026. Following the issuance of the Acetadote Patent, we received Paragraph IV certification notices from InnoPharma, Inc., Paddock Laboratories, LLC, Mylan Institutional LLC, Sagent Agila LLC and Perrigo Company challenging the Acetadote Patent. We responded by filing five separate infringement lawsuits. Further, on November 13, 2012, we brought suit against the FDA alleging that the FDA's denial of our Citizen Petition, which requested that the FDA refrain from approving any applications for acetylcysteine injection containing EDTA, and acceptance for review and approval of any InnoPharma, Inc. product containing EDTA was arbitrary and in violation of law. Although we have settled the litigation with Paddock Laboratories, LLC and Perrigo Company, the remaining lawsuits are still pending. In addition, on November 5, 2012, we received a Notice of Allowance from the USPTO for the Second Acetadote Patent, which is set to expire in August 2025. If we are unable to successfully defend the Acetadote patents and related intellectual property rights with respect to our Acetadote product, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Following the issuance of the Acetadote Patent, we received separate Paragraph IV certification notices from InnoPharma, Inc., Paddock Laboratories, LLC and Mylan Institutional LLC challenging the Acetadote Patent on the basis of non-infringement and/or invalidity. On May 17, 2012, we responded to the Paragraph IV certification notices by filing three separate lawsuits for infringement of the Acetadote Patent. The first lawsuit was filed against Mylan Institutional LLC and Mylan Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division. On November 12, 2012, the Company entered into the Settlement Agreement with Paddock and Perrigo to resolve the challenges and the pending litigation between the Company and each of Paddock and Perrigo involving the Acetadote Patent. Under the Settlement Agreement, Paddock and Perrigo admit that the Acetadote Patent is valid and enforceable and that any Paddock or Perrigo generic Acetadote product (with or without EDTA) would infringe upon the Acetadote Patent. In addition Paddock and Perrigo will not challenge the validity, enforceability, ownership or patentability of the Acetadote Patent through its expiration currently scheduled for May 2026. On November 12, 2012, in connection with the execution of the Settlement Agreement, the Company entered into the License and Supply Agreement with Paddock and Perrigo. Under the terms of the License and Supply Agreement, if a third party receives final approval from the FDA for an ANDA to sell a generic Acetadote product and such third party has made such generic version available for purchase in commercial quantities in the United States, the Company will supply Perrigo with an Authorized Generic version of the Company's Acetadote product.By statute, where the Paragraph IV certification to a patent timely listed before an ANDA is filed, a company has 45 days to institute a patent infringement lawsuit during which period the FDA may not approve another application. In addition, such a lawsuit for patent infringement filed within such 45-day period may stay, or bar, the FDA from approving another product application for two and a half years or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever is earlier. On May 18, 2012, we requested the aforementioned bar or stay in connection with the filing of the three lawsuits on May 17, 2012. The aforementioned bar or stay may or may not be available to us with respect to the lawsuits. On May 18, 2012, we also submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA refrain from approving any applications for acetylcysteine injection that contain ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, or EDTA, based in part on the FDA's request that we evaluate the reduction or removal of EDTA from its original Acetadote formulation. On November 7, 2012, the FDA responded to the Citizen Petition denying the Company's request and stating that ANDAs referencing Acetadote that contain EDTA may be accepted and approved provided they meet all applicable requirements. 25The Company believes this response contradicts the FDA's request to evaluate the reduction or removal of EDTA. On November 8, 2012, the Company learned that the FDA approved the ANDA referencing Acetadote filed by InnoPharma, Inc. On November 13, 2012, the Company brought suit against the FDA in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia alleging that the FDA's denial of Cumberland's Citizen Petition and acceptance for review and approval of any InnoPharma, Inc. product containing EDTA was arbitrary and in violation of law.On November 5, 2012, the Company received a Notice of Allowance from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a second patent relating to its new formulation of Acetadote. The new patent will include claims regarding the use of the 200 mg/ml Acetadote formulation to treat patients with acetaminophen overdose and will expire in August 2025.On January 7, 2013 Perrigo announced initial distribution of Cumberland's Authorized Generic acetylcysteine injection product.The Company intends to continue to vigorously defend and protect its Acetadote product and related intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our Acetadote intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to introduce products into the marketplace that reduce the sales and market share of our Acetadote product which may require us to take measures such as reducing prices or increasing our marketing expense, any of which may result in a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. We have a U.S. patent for Caldolor, and some related international patents, which are directed to ibuprofen solution formulations, methods of making the same, and methods of using the same, and which are related to our formulation and manufacture of Caldolor. Additionally, the active ingredient in Caldolor, ibuprofen, is in the public domain, and if a competitor were to develop a sufficiently distinct formulation, it could develop and seek FDA approval for another ibuprofen product that competes with Caldolor. Upon receipt of FDA approval in June 2009, we received three years of marketing exclusivity for Caldolor. As our marketing exclusivity has now expired, a competitor with a generic form of injectable ibuprofen could enter the market.While we consider patent protection when evaluating product acquisition opportunities, any products we acquire in the future may not have significant patent protection. Neither the USPTO, nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many pharmaceutical patents. Patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months following the filing date of the first related application, and in some cases not at all. In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific literature often lags significantly behind actual discoveries. Therefore, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. In addition, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. As a result of these factors, our patent rights may not provide any commercially valuable protection from competing products.If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.In addition to patents, we rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or attainable. For example, the manufacturing process for Kristalose involves substantial trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with certain key employees and consultants pursuant to which such employees and consultants must assign to us any inventions relating to our business if made by them while they are our employees, as well as certain confidentiality agreements relating to the acquisition of rights to products. Confidentiality agreements can be breached, though, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others could acquire or independently develop similar technology.26We may depend on certain licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of intellectual property rights and have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf.When we license products, we often depend on our licensors to protect the proprietary rights covering those products. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on maintaining patent or other rights and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. While any such licensor is expected to be under contractual obligations to us to diligently prosecute its patent applications and allow us the opportunity to consult, review and comment on patent office communications, we cannot be sure that it will perform as required. If a licensor does not perform and if we do not assume the maintenance of the licensed patents in sufficient time to make required payments or filings with the appropriate governmental agencies, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights.If the use of our technology conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to commercialize products based on this technology in a profitable manner or at all.If our products conflict with the intellectual property rights of others, they could bring legal action against us or our licensors, licensees, manufacturers, customers or collaborators. If we were found to be infringing a patent or other intellectual property rights held by a third party, we could be forced to seek a license to use the patented or otherwise protected technology. We might not be able to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us or at all. If an infringement or misappropriation legal action were to be brought against us or our licensors, we would incur substantial costs in defending the action. If such a dispute were to be resolved against us, we could be subject to significant damages, and the manufacturing or sale of one or more of our products could be enjoined.We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming.We have been involved in five lawsuits for infringement of the Acetadote Patent as previously described. Two of those suits have been settled. Because of their nature, these lawsuits may be expensive and time-consuming, and a court may decide that our Acetadote Patent is not valid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the remaining parties from selling their product at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the product in question. An adverse result in any such lawsuit could put the Acetadote Patent at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Competitors may infringe on our other patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States.Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, some of our confidential information could be disclosed during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.27If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to our products and product candidates from others, we could lose the ability to continue commercialization of our products and development and commercialization of our product candidates.We have exclusive licenses for the marketing and sale of certain products and may acquire additional licenses. Such licenses may terminate prior to expiration if we breach our obligations under the license agreement related to these pharmaceutical products. For example, the licenses may terminate if we fail to meet specified quality control standards, including cGMP with respect to the products, or commit a material breach of other terms and conditions of the licenses. Such early termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOur operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period.We are a relatively new company seeking to capture significant growth. While our revenues and operating income have increased over time, we anticipate that there may be fluctuations in our future operating results. We may not be able to maintain or improve our current levels of revenue or income. Potential causes of future fluctuations in our operating results may include:•new product launches, which could increase revenues but also increase sales and marketing expenses;•acquisition activity and other charges (such as for inventory expiration);•increases in research and development expenses resulting from the acquisition of a product candidate that requires significant additional development;•changes in the competitive, regulatory or reimbursement environment, which could drive down revenues or drive up sales and marketing or compliance costs; and•unexpected product liability or intellectual property claims and lawsuits.See also “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources.” Fluctuation in operating results, particularly if not anticipated by investors and other members of the financial community, could add to volatility in our stock price.Our focus on acquisitions as a growth strategy has created intangible assets whose amortization could negatively affect our results of operations.Our total assets include intangible assets related to our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2012, intangible assets relating to product and data acquisitions represented approximately 10% of our total assets. We may never realize the value of these assets. Generally accepted accounting principles require that we evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of the asset may no longer be recoverable, in which case we would write down the value of the asset and take a corresponding charge to earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations.28We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development or commercialization and marketing efforts.We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet the capital requirements of running our business and acquiring and developing new pharmaceutical products. If we require additional funding, we may seek to sell common stock or other equity or equity-linked securities, which could result in dilution to our shareholders. We may also seek to raise capital through a debt financing, which would result in ongoing debt-service payments and increased interest expense. Any financings would also likely involve operational and financial restrictions being imposed on us. We might also seek to sell assets or rights in one or more commercial products or product development programs. Additional capital might not be available to us when we need it on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the European debt situation have contributed to the instability in global credit markets. We are unable to predict the impact of these events, and if economic conditions deteriorate, our business, results of operations and ability to raise needed capital could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed due to the reasons listed above and lack of creditworthiness, bank failures, or price decline in market investments, we could be forced to scale back our operations to conserve cash.If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and mitigate the risk of fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and affected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP.We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock.In addition, we maintain a system of internal controls and provide training to employees designed to provide reasonable assurance that unlawful and fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. However, in the event that our employees engage in such fraudulent behavior, we could suffer material adverse consequences.Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles and tax laws could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions.For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, continues to work together with the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting.29RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR STOCKThe market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially.The price for the shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering was determined by negotiation between the representatives of the underwriters and us. This price may not have reflected the market price of our common stock following our initial public offering. Through March 1, 2013, the closing price of our common stock since our initial public offering has ranged from a low of $4.08 to a high of $17.05 per share. Moreover, the market price of our common stock might decline below current levels. In addition, the market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such securities litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.Unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business.The economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are dilutive to existing shareholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical developments plans. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget.We are experiencing increased costs and regulatory risk as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote additional time to new compliance initiatives.We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote additional time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and other rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. These rules and regulations have and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will render some activities more time-consuming and costly. Despite the internal controls and procedure put in place to maintain compliance with securities laws and regulations, our employees may still fail to comply with all SEC disclosure and reporting requirements. Such failure could lead to administrative and civil penalties, criminal penalties, and private litigation with shareholders. The consequences could have a significant material effect on our ability to operate and market out products.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses.30Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We have established formal policies or procedures for prohibiting or monitoring this conduct, but we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties.Some provisions of our third amended and restated charter, bylaws, credit facility and Tennessee law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable.Our corporate documents contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by you and other shareholders. These provisions include:•the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval;•advance notice procedures required for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders;•limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders;•a staggered board of directors;•a restriction prohibiting shareholders from removing directors without cause;•a requirement that vacancies in directorships are to be filled by a majority of the directors then in office and the number of directors is to be fixed by the board of directors; and•no cumulative voting.These and other provisions contained in our third amended and restated charter and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of shareholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our shareholders may deem to be in their best interests and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock.Under our bank credit agreement, it is an event of default if any person or entity obtains ownership or control, in one or a series of transactions, of more than 30% of our common stock or 30% of the voting power entitled to vote in the election of members of our board of directors.In addition, we are subject to control share acquisitions provisions and affiliated transaction provisions of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the applications of which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, takeover or other change in control of us and therefore could discourage attempts to acquire our company.31We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to our shareholders in the foreseeable future. The availability of funds for distributions to shareholders will depend substantially on our earnings. Even if we become able to pay dividends in the future, we expect that we would retain such earnings to enhance capital and/or reduce long-term debt.SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSStatements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical factual statements are “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations, and can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “should,” “seek,” “anticipate” and other comparable terms or the negative thereof. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make forward-looking oral and written public statements concerning our expected future operations and other developments. While forward-looking statements reflect our good-faith beliefs and best judgment based upon current information, they are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Such factors include, without limitation:•legislative, regulatory or other changes in the healthcare industry at the local, state or federal level which increase the costs of, or otherwise affect our operations;•changes in reimbursement available to us by government or private payers, including changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment levels and availability of third-party insurance coverage;•competition; and•changes in national or regional economic conditions, including changes in interest rates and availability and cost of capital to us.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.