ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that there are various risks. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS DEPENDENT UPON OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY AND CLOSE ACQUISITIONS OF OPERATING COMPANIES IN CHINA. THE ACQUISITION OF NEW BUSINESSES IS COSTLY AND SUCH ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT ENHANCE OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our primary business and operational focus is on our Management Services division. Our growth strategy is to acquire companies and identify and acquire assets and technologies from businesses in China that have services, products, technologies, industry specializations or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. The process to undertake a potential acquisition is time-consuming and costly. We expect to expend significant resources to undertake business, financial and legal due diligence on our potential acquisition targets and there is no guarantee that we will acquire the company after completing due diligence. The process of identifying and consummating an acquisition could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring additional co mpanies, there are no assurances that the operations of these business will enhance our future financial conditions, including to the extent that the businesses acquired in these transactions do not remain competitive, some or all of the goodwill related to that acquisition could be charged against our future earnings, if any. 12 WE MAY NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS. ADDITIONAL CAPITAL RAISING EFFORTS IN FUTURE PERIODS MAY BE DILUTIVE TO OUR THEN CURRENT SHAREHOLDERS OR RESULT IN INCREASED INTEREST EXPENSE IN FUTURE PERIODS. We may need to raise additional working capital to continue to implement our business model. Our future capital requirements, however, depend on a number of factors, including our operations, the financial condition of an acquisition target and its needs for capital, our ability to grow revenues from other sources, our ability to manage the growth of our business and our ability to control our expenses. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this will result in increased interest expense. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing shareholders will be reduced and those shareholders may experience significant dilution. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the working capita l as needed in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not raise funds as needed, we will be unable to fully implement our business model, fund our ongoing operations or grow our company. OUR MANAGEMENT MAY BE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY INTEGRATE OUR ACQUISITIONS AND TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO FULLY REALIZE ANY ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THESE ACQUISITIONS. We are subject to various risks associated with our growth strategy, including the risk that we will be unable to identify and recruit suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to integrate and manage the acquired companies. We face particular challenges in that our acquisition strategy is based on companies located in and operating within China. Acquired companies' histories, the geographical location, business models and business cultures will be different from ours in many respects. Even if we are successful in identifying and closing acquisitions of companies, our directors and executive management will face significant challenges in their efforts to integrate the business of the acquired companies or assets and to effectively manage our continued growth. Any future acquisitions will be subject to a number of challenges, including: - the diversion of management time and resources and the potential disruption of our ongoing business; - difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; - unexpected costs and time associated with upgrading both the internal accounting systems as well as educating each of their staffs as to the proper collection and recordation of financial data; - potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; - the difficulty of retaining key alliances on attractive terms with partners and suppliers; and - the difficulty of retaining and recruiting key personnel and maintaining employee morale. There can be no assurance that our efforts to integrate the operations of any acquired assets or companies will be successful, that we can manage our growth or that the anticipated benefits of these proposed acquisitions will be fully realized. THE VALUE OF THE EQUITY SECURITIES WE ACCEPT AS COMPENSATION IS SUBJECT TO ADJUSTMENT WHICH COULD RESULT IN LOSSES TO US IN FUTURE PERIODS. Historically our Consulting segment has accepted equity securities of consulting clients as compensation for services. These securities are reflected on our balance sheet as "investment in marketable securities held for sale" and "investment in marketable securities held for sale - related party". We evaluate quarterly the carrying value of each investment for a possible increase or decrease in value. Because we do not want to be considered an investment company, it is to our benefit to keep the carrying values of these securities as low as possible. This review may result in an adjustment to their carrying value which could adversely affect our operating results for the corresponding quarters in that we might be required to reduce our carrying value of the investments. In addition, if we are unable to liquidate these securities, we will be required to write off the investments which would adversely affect our financial po sition. 13 THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 WILL LIMIT THE VALUE OF SECURITIES WE CAN ACCEPT AS PAYMENT FOR OUR BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR FUTURE REVENUES. We have historically accepted stock as payment for our services and will likely continue to do so in the future, but only to the extent that it does not cause us to become an investment company under the Investment Company Act 1940. To the extent that we are required to reduce the amount of stock we accept as payment for our business consulting services to avoid becoming an investment Co., our future revenues from our business consulting services may substantially decline if our client companies cannot pay our fees in cash which will materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Any future change in our fee structure for our business consulting services could also severely limit our ability to attract business-consulting clients in the future. ACQUISITION EFFORTS IN FUTURE PERIODS MAY BE DILUTIVE TO OUR THEN CURRENT SHAREHOLDERS. Our business model may result in the issuance of our securities to consummate acquisitions in the future. As a result, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing shareholders will be reduced and those shareholders may experience significant dilution. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. As we will generally not be required to obtain the consent of our shareholders before entering into acquisition transactions, shareholders are dependent upon the judgment of our management in determining the number of, and characteristics of stock issued as consideration in an acquisition. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THESE KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational expertise of key personnel of at our subsidiaries in China who perform key functions in the operation of our business. These individuals include Messrs. Wulang Zhang, Yuwei Huang and Jingdong Chen. All of these individuals are located in China and we do not exercise any substantive day to day supervision over their activities. While we are a party to employments with certain of these individuals, we do not have employment or similar agreements with all of these individuals and there are no assurances that they will remain employed by their respective companies or devote sufficient time and attention to the operations of those entities. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the results of operations at these subsidiaries could be adversely impacted. CERTAIN AGREEMENTS TO WHICH WE ARE A PARTY AND WHICH ARE MATERIAL TO OUR OPERATIONS LACK VARIOUS LEGAL PROTECTIONS WHICH ARE CUSTOMARILY CONTAINED IN SIMILAR CONTRACTS PREPARED IN THE UNITED STATES. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the laws of the PRC and all of their business and operations are conducted in China. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain provisions which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the U.S., such as representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults, and termination and jurisdictional clauses. Because these contracts omit these types of clauses, notwithstanding the differences in Chinese and U.S. laws we may not have the same legal protections as we would if the contracts contained these additional provisions. We anticipate that our Chinese subsidiaries will likely enter into contracts in the future which will likewise omit these types o f legal protections. While we have not been subject to any adverse consequences as a result of the omission of these types of clauses, and we consider the contracts to which we are a party to contain all the material terms of our business arrangements with the other party, future events may occur which lead to a dispute under agreements which could have been avoided if the contracts were prepared in conformity with U.S. standards. Contractual disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection will divert management's time from the operation of our business and require us to expend funds attempting to settle a possible dispute. This possible diversion of management time will limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and the diversion of capital could limit the funds we have available to pay our ongoing operating expenses. 14 FROM TIME TO TIME WE ENGAGE IN RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS. THERE ARE NO ASSURANCES THAT THESE TRANSACTIONS ARE FAIR TO OUR COMPANY. As described later in this report, from time to time our subsidiaries in the PRC enter into transactions with related parties which include the purchase from or sale to goods and products from the related party, and advancing these related parties significant sums as prepayments for future goods or services, among other transactions. We have in place policies and procedures which require the pre-approval of loans between these related parties. Notwithstanding these policies, we cannot assure you that in every instance the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as fair as we might receive from or extend to third parties. CHANG MAGNESIUM’S CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER IS ALSO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF A GROUP OF COMPANIES WHICH DIRECTLY COMPETE WITH CHANG MAGNESIUM. Yuwei Huang, CEO, Chairman and minority shareholder of Chang Magnesium, Chairman of Baotou Changxin Magnesium, and Vice Chairman and CEO of Golden Magnesium, is the chairman of YiWei Magnesium , a position he has held since founding that company in 1999 and serves in various positions with its affiliated companies. YiWei Magnesium, a minority owner of Chang Magnesium and Golden Magnesium, owns interests in seven subsidiary magnesium factories, a magnesium alloy factory and a magnesium powder desulphurization reagent factory, all located in China, and is generally regarded as the largest exporter for magnesium products in China and the second largest producer. Because these companies have similar operations relating to those of Chang Magnesium and Mr. Huang has operational control over competing companies, he is subject to certain inherent conflicts of interest. There can be no assurances that Chang Magnesium’s business and operation s will not be adversely impacted as a result of these conflicts of interest. The operations of the affiliated entities of Mr. Huang are expected to be phased out by no later than the end of 2008, but until that time, potential conflicts of interest could occur with Mr. Huang’s affiliated entities. THE OPERATIONS OF OUR BASIC MATERIALS SEGMENT WILL BE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND HAZARDS INHERENT IN THE MINING INDUSTRY Through our Basic Materials segment we will be involved in the mining and processing of zinc. These operations will become subject to risks and hazards inherent in the mining industry, including, but not limited to, unanticipated variations in grade and other geological problems, water conditions, surface or underground conditions, metallurgical and other processing problems, mechanical equipment performance problems, the lack of availability of materials and equipment, the occurrence of accidents, labor force disruptions, force majeure factors, unanticipated transportation costs, and weather conditions, any of which can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures and production commencement dates. THE DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF A MINE OR MINERAL PROPERTY INVOLVES MANY RISKS The development and operation of a mine or mineral property involve many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to be overcome. These risks include, among other things, ground fall, flooding, environmental hazards and the discharge of toxic chemicals, explosions and other accidents. Such occurrences may result in work stoppages, delays in production, increased production costs, damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, injury or loss of life, damage to property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damages. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities may cause our company to incur substantial uninsured losses. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR ASSETS AND OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE PRC AND ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC POLICIES OF THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT. Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a "socialist market economy" and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, 15 other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT THE CURRENT CHINESE POLICIES OF ECONOMIC REFORM WILL CONTINUE. BECAUSE OF THIS UNCERTAINTY, THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. Although the majority of productive assets in China are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. In keeping with these economic reform policies, the PRC has been openly promoting business development in order to bring more business into the PRC. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: - the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; - the economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; - economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or - business operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in China, any change in Chinese government policy could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to implement our business model. China's economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors and has recently been slowing. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in that country will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to our company. THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT EXERTS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER THE MANNER IN WHICH OUR CHINESE SUBSIDIARIES MUST CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. The PRC only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese subsidiaries. FUTURE INFLATION IN CHINA MAY INHIBIT ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN CHINA. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past 10 years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China. Any actions by the PRC government to regulate growth and contain inflation could have the effect of limiting our ability to grow our revenues in future periods. 16 ANY RECURRENCE OF SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME, OR SARS, OR ANOTHER WIDESPREAD PUBLIC HEALTH PROBLEM, COULD INTERRUPT OUR OPERATIONS. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: - quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, - the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, or - a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could result in a loss of revenues in future periods and could impact our ability to conduct the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are presently conducted. If we were unable to continue the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries as they are now conducted, our revenues in future periods would decline and our ability to continue as a going concern could be in jeopardy. If we were unable to continue as a going concern, you could lose your entire investment in our company. RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. WE MAY NOT HAVE READY ACCESS TO CASH ON DEPOSIT IN BANKS IN THE PRC. Because a substantial portion of revenues are in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. At December&nbsp ;31, 2007 our PRC subsidiaries had approximately $10,452,000 on deposit in banks, which represented approximately 51% of our cash. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to that cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside the PRC nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ENFORCE OUR RIGHTS DUE TO POLICIES REGARDING THE REGULATION OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN CHINA. The PRC's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China's regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broa d interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our ability to achieve our stated business objectives. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in our industry could be limited which could result in a loss of revenue in future periods which could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE UNITED STATES FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT COULD SUBJECT US TO PENALTIES AND OTHER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to- 17 time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ESTABLISHING ADEQUATE MANAGEMENT, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS IN THE PRC. PRC companies have in some cases, been resistant to adopt Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards with future acquisitions. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have an adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS MAY DELAY OR PREVENT A TAKEOVER WHICH MAY NOT BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, which include when and by whom special meetings of our shareholders may be called, and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. In addition, certain provisions of Florida law also may be deemed to have certain anti-takeover effects which include that control of shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless these voting rights are approved by a majority of a corporation’s disinterested shareholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may, without shareholder approval, issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion or voting rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of our common shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 