ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our independent accountants have issued a going concern opinion and if we cannot obtain additional financing, we may have to curtail operations and may ultimately cease to exist. Our independent accountants have issued a going concern opinion. Due to continuing operating losses, our current available cash and cash equivalents along with anticipated revenues are likely to be insufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. Consequently, our ability to continue as a going concern is likely contingent on us receiving additional funds in the form of equity or debt financing. We currently plan to meet our capital requirements primarily through the issuance of equity securities or new borrowing arrangements. Accordingly, we are aggressively pursuing strategic alternatives. However, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms or achieve positive cash flow, we may be forced to curtail operations or may ultimately cease to exist. We have generated significant losses and expect to generate operating losses for the foreseeable future, therefore we may not become profitable. We organized in 1998 and began operations as a public company in 1999 by offering electronic billing services to other companies. After the sale of our primary business in July 2003, we have concentrated on building our electronic payments services operations. We have not been profitable since inception and we may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $53,423,953. If our security applications are not sufficient to address changing market conditions and customer concerns, we may incur significant losses and be unable to sell our services. Our use of applications designed for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations in the event of the loss of confidential card information. Adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider's security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change, our business may fail. Our success depends on our ability to develop new and enhanced services and related products that meet changing customer needs. The market for our services, however, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent new and enhanced software, service and related product introductions. In addition, the software market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. To remain successful, we must respond to new developments in hardware and semiconductor technology, operating systems, programming technology and computer capabilities. In many instances, new and enhanced services, products and technologies are in the emerging stages of development and marketing, and are subject to the risks inherent in the development and marketing of new software, services and products. We may not successfully identify new service opportunities, and develop and bring new and enhanced services and related products to market in a timely manner. Even if we do bring such services, products or technologies to market, they may not become commercially successful. Additionally, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our services and related products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new services and products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business may fail. 5 We rely on our relationship with the Automated Clearinghouse Network and if the Federal Reserve rules were to change, our business could be adversely affected. We have a contractual relationship with Fifth Third Bank, which is an Originating Depository Financial Institution in the Automated Clearinghouse Network. The Automated Clearinghouse Network is a nationwide batch-oriented electronic funds transfer system that provides for the interbank clearing of electronic payments for participating financial institutions. An Originating Depository Financial Institution is a participating financial institution that must abide by the provisions of the Automated Clearinghouse Operating Rules and Guidelines. Through our relationship with this third-party provider, we are able to process payment transactions on behalf of our customers and their consumers by submitting payment instructions in a prescribed Automated Clearinghouse format. We pay volume-based fees to the third-party provider for debit and credit transactions processed each month, and pay fees for other transactions such as returns and notices of change to bank accounts. These fe es are part of our cost structure. If the Federal Reserve rules were to change to introduce restrictions or modify access to the Automated Clearinghouse, our business could be materially adversely affected. If our third-party card processing providers or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, we may have to find a new third-party processing provider, which could increase our costs. Substantially all of the card-based transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If our third-party processing provider, TriSource Solutions, LLC, or our bank sponsor, Merrick Bank, fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate their registration. Also, our contract with these third parties is subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The cancellation of our contract, termination of their registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair their registration could require us to stop providing such payment processing services if we are unable to obtain another provider or sponsor at similar costs. Additionally, changing our bank sponsor could adversely affect our relationship with our merchants if the new sponsor provides inferior service or charges higher costs. We depend on Michael R. Long and Louis A. Hoch and if these officers ceased to be active in our management, our business may not be successful. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, service and related product development and operational personnel, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Michael R. Long and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Louis A. Hoch. We signed employment agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch in February 2007 which prohibits them from competing with us for a period of two years upon termination of their employment. Our business may not be successful if, for any reason, either of these officers ceased to be active in our management. If our software fails, and we need to repair or replace it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could increase. Our software products could contain errors or "bugs" that could adversely affect the performance of services or damage a user's data. We attempt to limit our potential liability for warranty claims through technical audits and limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer agreements. However, these measures may not be effective in limiting our exposure to warranty claims. We have not experienced a significant increase in software errors or warranty claims. Despite the existence of various security precautions, our computer infrastructure may also be vulnerable to viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or third parties gaining access to our processing system. If our software fails, and we need to replace or repair it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could significantly increase. Our business strategy includes identifying businesses and assets to acquire, and if we cannot integrate acquisitions into our company successfully, we may not become profitable. Our success partially depends upon our ability to identify and acquire undervalued businesses and merchant portfolios within our industry. Although we believe that there are companies and portfolios available for potential acquisition that might offer attractive business opportunities, we may not be able to make any acquisitions, and if we do make acquisitions, they may not be profitable. As a result, our business may not grow and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 6 If we do not manage our growth, we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We may experience a period of rapid growth that could place a significant strain on our resources. In order to manage our growth successfully, we will have to continue to improve our operational, management and financial systems and expand our work force. A significant increase in our customer base may necessitate the hiring of a significant number of additional personnel, qualified candidates for which, at the time needed, may be in short supply. In addition, the expansion and adaptation of our computer and administrative infrastructure will require substantial operational, management and financial resources. Although we believe that our current infrastructure is adequate to meet the needs of our customers in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to expand and adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, hire need ed personnel, expand and adapt our computer infrastructure and improve our operational, management, and financial systems and controls, we may not attain or sustain profitability. If we do not manage our credit risks related to our merchant accounts, we may incur significant losses. We rely on the Federal Reserve's Automated Clearinghouse system for electronic fund transfers and the Visa and MasterCard associations for settlement of payments by credit or debit card on behalf of our merchant customers. In our use of these established payment clearance systems, we generally bear the credit risks arising from returned transactions caused by insufficient funds, stop payment orders, closed accounts, frozen accounts, unauthorized use, disputes, customer charge backs, theft or fraud. Consequently, we assume the credit risk of merchant disputes, fraud, insolvency or bankruptcy in the event we attempt to recover funds related to such transactions from our customers. We have not experienced a significant increase in the rate of returned transactions or incurred any losses with respect to such transactions. We utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage and limit credit risks, but if these actions are not successful in managin g such risks, we may incur significant losses. Current economic conditions could have a materially adverse affect on our business. Our operations and performance depend to some degree on economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the regions in which we operate, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The electronic commerce market is relatively new and if it does not grow, we may not be able to sell sufficient services to make our business viable. The electronic commerce market is a relatively new and growing service industry. If the electronic commerce market fails to grow or grows slower than anticipated, or if we, despite an investment of significant resources, are unable to adapt to meet changing customer requirements or technological changes in this emerging market, or if our services and related products do not maintain a proportionate degree of acceptance in this growing market, our business may not grow and could even fail. Additionally, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the electronic commerce market in general, and our customer base and revenues, in particular. Similar to the emergence of the credit card and automatic teller machine industries, we and other organizations serving the electronic commerce market must educate users that electronic transactions use encryption technology and other electronic security measure s that make electronic transactions more secure than paper-based transactions. Changes in regulation of electronic commerce and related financial services industries could increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. We believe that we are not required to be licensed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, or other federal or state agencies that regulate or monitor banks or other types of providers of electronic commerce services. It is possible that a federal or state agency will attempt to regulate providers of electronic commerce services, which could impede our ability to do business in the regulator's jurisdiction. Our business has also been affected by anti-terrorism legislation, such as the Patriot Act. Banking related provisions of the Patriot Act have been implemented as additions to the banking rules regarding monetary instrument sales record keeping requirements and tracking of cash movements. In our capacity as an agent for Meta Payments Systems, a division of MetaBank, a federally chartered savings bank that is the issuing bank for our debit card programs, we are required to comply with these rules. We are als o required to implement a Customer Identification Program and establish an Anti-Money Laundering program and to report any suspected money laundering to the appropriate agencies. Our compliance with such regulations increases our responsibilities and costs associated with the administration of our debit card programs. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to commercial transactions, such as the Uniform Commercial Code, and may be subject to the electronic funds transfer rules embodied in Regulation E, promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board. Given the expansion of the electronic commerce market, the Federal Reserve Board might revise Regulation E or adopt new rules for electronic funds transfer affecting users other than consumers. Because of growth in the electronic commerce market, Congress has held hearings on whether to regulate providers of services and transactions in the electronic commerce market. It is possible that Congress or individual states could enact laws regulating th e electronic commerce market. If enacted, such laws, rules and regulations could be imposed on our business and industry and could increase our costs or limit our business opportunities. 7 If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, we could lose market share and our costs could increase. Portions of the electronic commerce market are becoming increasingly competitive. We expect to face growing competition in all areas of the electronic payment processing market. New companies could emerge and compete for merchants of all sizes. We expect competition to increase from both established and emerging companies and that such increased competition could lower our market share and increase our costs. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or could expand to compete directly against us in any or all of our target markets. Accordingly, it is possible that current or potential competitors could rapidly acquire market share. We may not be able to compete against current or future competitors successfully. Additionally, competitive pressures may increase our costs, which could lower our earnings, if any. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at a price higher than what you paid. The market for our common stock is highly volatile. In 2008, our closing stock price fluctuated between $0.02 and $0.075. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or us, changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors' products and services, changes in product mix, or changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates. Existing stockholders may experience significant dilution from the sale of securities pursuant to our Investment Agreement with Dutchess. The sale of shares pursuant to our Investment Agreement with Dutchess may have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. As a result, our net income per share could decrease in future periods and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is at the time we exercise our put option, the more shares we will have to issue to Dutchess to draw down on the full equity line with Dutchess. If our stock price decreases, then our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. Dutchess will pay less than the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock to be issued under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess will be purchased at a 5% discount to the lowest closing best bid price during the five days immediately following our notice to Dutchess of our election to exercise our put right. Dutchess has a financial incentive to sell our common stock immediately upon receiving the shares to realize the profit between the discounted price and the market price. If Dutchess sells our shares, the price of our stock could decrease. If our stock price decreases, Dutchess may have a further incentive to sell the shares of our common stock that it holds. The discounted sales under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess could cause the price of our common stock to decline. “Penny stock” rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our shares. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose comm issions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. We have adopted certain measures that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Such classification of the Board of Directors expands the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and may tend to discourage a proxy contest or other takeover bid for our company. We have also instituted a stockholders rights plan that serves to help prevent a hostile takeover of our company. 8 