Risk Factors Litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding our historical distribution of download applications could seriously harm our business. On April 28, 2005, the Attorney General of the State of New York (the “NY AG”) commenced an action against the Company for alleged unlawful and deceptive acts and practices associated with the Company’s distribution of toolbar, redirect and contextual ad serving applications (“downloads”). As previously announced, we reached an agreement in principle with the NY AG pursuant to which the Company now expects to pay a total of $7.5 million over three years to the State of New York and will permanently discontinue distribution of its adware, redirect and toolbar programs. The $6.9 million reserve represents the present value of these payments, plus the related legal costs. Final resolution of this matter is subject to agreement by the parties on the specific provisions of, and the Court’s issuance of, a Stipulated Consent Decree memorializing the terms of the settlement. See Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) for information on this and other legal proceedings. Failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures could seriously harm our business. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, mistakes and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Any failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to potential risks resulting from new internal control evaluation and attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are currently evaluating our internal controls in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we are working diligently to complete these evaluations on a timely basis, it is possible that we may encounter unexpected delays in implementing the requirements relating to internal controls. Therefore, we cannot be certain about the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact that these activities will have on our operations. We also expect to continue to incur significant expenses as a result of performing the continuing system and process evaluation, testing and remediation required in order to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements. We currently expect to incur between $2.0 million and $2.5 million in external, third party costs during fiscal year 2006 in order to achieve initial compliance with Section 404. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if we have underestimated the resources or time necessary to achieve compliance, resulting cost overruns could adversely impact our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may issue securities with rights superior to those of our common stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of existing stockholders. We may issue additional preferred stock at such time or times and for such consideration as the Board of Directors may determine. Each series of preferred stock is required to be designated so as to distinguish the shares thereof from the shares of all other series. The Board of Directors is expressly authorized, subject to the limitations prescribed by law and the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, to provide for the issuance of all or any shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, each with such designations, preferences, voting powers, relative, participating, optional or other special rights and privileges and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are determined by the Board of Directors. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes “blank check” preferred stock. Our Board of Directors can set the voting, redemption, conversion and other rights relating to the preferred stock and can issue the stock in either a private or public transaction. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company without further stockholder action and may adversely affect the rights and powers of the holders of our common stock, including voting rights, rights to receive dividends and rights to payments upon liquidation. In certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could depress the market price of our common stock, and could encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. We have many potentially dilutive securities outstanding. As of March 31, 2005, we had outstanding options to purchase 9,134,000 shares of Company common stock and warrants to purchase 180,000 shares of Company common stock. As of March 31, 2005, we had 194,000 shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding. The Series A preferred stock is convertible into common stock at the then-applicable conversion rate. The Series A preferred stock has a $3.60 per share liquidation preference that increases at the rate of 6% per annum. Each share of Series A preferred stock is convertible into common stock at a rate of one share of common stock for each $3.60 of liquidation preference. The liquidation preference was $4.84 as of March 31, 2005. Because of the 6% accretion factor, each share of Series A preferred stock will be converted into greater than one share of common stock. Prior to any conversion, the conversion price is also adjusted to account for any increase or decrease in the number of outstanding shares of common stock by stock split, stock dividend, or issuance of additional equity securities (other than those reserved as employee shares pursuant to any employee stock option plan) at a purchase price less than the then-current conversion price. As of March 31, 2005, we had 1,797,000 shares of Series B preferred stock outstanding. The Series B preferred stock is convertible into common stock at the then-applicable conversion rate. The Series B preferred stock has a $2.60 per share liquidation preference. Each share of Series B is convertible into common stock at an initial rate of one share of common stock for each $2.60 of liquidation preference. Prior to any conversion, the conversion price is adjusted to account for any increase or decrease in the number of outstanding shares of common stock by stock split, stock dividend or other similar event. The conversion price per share of Series B may be adjusted downward if we issue additional equity securities other than certain excluded stock, without consideration or for consideration per share less than the then-current conversion price. As of March 31, 2005, we had 3,786,000 shares of Series C preferred stock, and 1,300,000 shares of our Series C-1 preferred stock, outstanding. The Series C preferred stock is convertible into common stock at the then-applicable conversion rate. The Series C and C-1 preferred stock have a $1.50 and $2 per share liquidation preference, respectively. Each share of Series C is convertible into common stock at an initial rate of one share of common stock for each $1.50 of liquidation preference. Each share of Series C-1 is convertible into common stock at an initial rate of one share of common stock for each $2 of liquidation preference. Prior to any 11 Table of Contents conversion, the conversion price is adjusted to account for any increase or decrease in the number of outstanding shares of common stock by stock split, stock dividend or other similar event. The conversion price per share of Series C or C-1 may be adjusted downward if we issue additional equity securities other than certain excluded stock, without consideration or for consideration per share less than the then-current conversion price. The Series C and C-1 preferred stockholders earn an 8% annual dividend paid in additional Series C or C-1 preferred stock, as the case may be, for a period of one year after issuance (“PIK Dividend”). All Series C PIK Dividend has been paid or issued. We will issue an additional 25,000 shares of Series C-1 preferred stock as PIK Dividend on each of June 30 and September 30, 2005. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or the conversion of any outstanding or newly issued shares of preferred stock, will cause dilution to existing common stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the Series A, Series B, Series C and Series C-1 preferred stock, the 1,643,000 shares of common stock issued in November 2003 and the 1,000,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock issued in December 2004 are unregistered and the holders of these securities have registration rights. We anticipate filing a Form S-3, if available to us, to register the 1,000,000 shares of common stock and 150,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants that were issued in December 2004. When the registration statement is filed and if the other registration rights are exercised and the stock is re-sold in the market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our server and network hardware and software and our ability to expand network capacity. The performance of our server and networking hardware and software infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation and our ability to attract Web users, advertisers, members and e-commerce partners to our websites. An unexpected and/or substantial increase in the use of our websites could strain the capacity of our systems, which could lead to slower response time or system failures. Any slowdowns or system failures could adversely affect the speed and responsiveness of our websites and diminish the experience for our customers and members. If the usage of our websites substantially increases, we may need to purchase additional servers, networking equipment and bandwidth to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be significant. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or a decrease in the responsiveness of our websites could reduce traffic on our websites and, if sustained or repeated, could impair our reputation and the attractiveness of our brands as well as reduce revenue and negatively impact our operating results. We rely on many different software applications, many of which have been developed internally. If these software applications fail, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our services. If we receive a significant unexpected increase in usage and are not able to rapidly expand our transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure without any systems interruptions, it could seriously harm our business and reputation. If we are unable to continue to develop compelling entertainment and other content for our network of websites and electronic newsletters, the Company’s traffic, subscriber and user base may be reduced and our revenues could decrease. The online business market is relatively new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we expect competition will further intensify in the future. Similarly, the competition for website traffic and subscribers, as well as advertising revenues, both on Internet websites and in more traditional media, is intense. Barriers to entry are currently minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites and electronic newsletters at a relatively low cost. Competitive factors in providing entertainment and multi-channel products and services via the Internet include name recognition, variety of value-added offerings, ease of use, price, quality of service, availability of customer support and technical expertise. Our prospects for achieving our business objectives will depend heavily upon our ability to continuously provide high quality, entertaining content, along with user- 12 Table of Contents friendly website features and value-added Internet products and services. If we fail to continue to attract a high volume of traffic for our websites or a broad subscriber base, revenues could decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on strategic relationships with our partners. We expect to generate significant commerce and advertising revenues from strategic relationships with certain outside companies. However, there can be no assurance that our existing relationships will be maintained through their initial terms or that additional third-party alliances will be available to the Company on acceptable commercial terms, or at all. The inability to enter into new strategic alliances or to maintain any one or more of our existing, strategic alliances could result in decreased third-party paid advertising and product and service sales revenue. Even if we are able to maintain our strategic alliances, there can be no assurance that these alliances will be successful or that our infrastructure of hardware and software will be sufficient to handle any potential increased traffic or sales volume resulting from these alliances. We have a concentration of our business in certain products and vendors, and in two customers. Revenues from the sale of Hydroderm, Body Shape, Dream Shape and Body by Jake Carb Manager product lines accounted for approximately 58%, 14%, 10%, and 6%, respectively, of fiscal year 2005 product marketing segment revenues. Most of the products we sold during the fiscal year were purchased from five vendors. In addition, revenues from Advertising.com, Inc. and Yahoo! Search Marketing (formerly Overture Services, Inc.) were approximately 10% and 22%, respectively, of fiscal year 2005 network segment revenues. These concentrations of our business in certain products, vendors and customers create the risk of adverse financial impact if we are not able to continue to sell these products or source these products from our current vendors. We believe that we can mitigate the financial impact of the loss of a key vendor by sourcing an alternative vendor, but we cannot predict the timing of locating and qualifying the alternative vendor, or the pricing and terms that the alternative vendor might offer. Our success depends on retaining our current key personnel and attracting additional key personnel. The Company is dependent on the services of key personnel, including our senior management, vice presidents, and business unit managers. Due to the specialized knowledge of these individuals, as it relates to our Company and our operations, if they were to terminate employment, we could have difficulty hiring qualified individuals to replace the personnel in a timely manner. Consequently, operations and productivity surrounding the vacated position may be impaired and cause an adverse effect on operating results. In addition, our success depends on our continuing ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, financial, sales, marketing and customer support personnel, particularly in the areas of content development, product development, website design, and sales and marketing. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and our ability to retain key employees, or to attract or retain other highly qualified personnel, may be harder given recent adverse changes in our business and regulatory environment. We may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions of other companies and we may not manage the integration of acquired companies successfully. Our future growth and profitability may depend in part upon our ability to identify companies that are suitable acquisition candidates, to acquire those companies upon acceptable terms, and to effectively integrate and expand their operations within our infrastructure. We may not be able to identify additional candidates that are suitable for acquisition or to consummate desired acquisitions on favorable terms. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, adverse short-term effects on our operating results, and the potential inability to integrate financial and management reporting systems. A significant portion of our capital resources could be used for these acquisitions. Accordingly, we may require additional debt or equity financing for future 13 Table of Contents acquisitions, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. Moreover, we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business into our business or to operate an acquired business profitably. It could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are not able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or integrate and expand the operations of acquired companies without excessive costs, delays or other adverse developments. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business will be harmed. The scope of our operations and our workforce has expanded significantly in recent years and may continue to expand in the future. This growth requires significant time and resources of senior management, and may distract from other business initiatives. If we are unable to effectively manage continued growth, our earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, we rely on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems, which have become increasingly complex due to rapid expansion and diversification. Management of our business depends on the timeliness and accuracy of information provided by these systems, and if we do not adapt these systems to the rapid changes in the business, our business could be adversely affected. Our previous acquisitions and any future acquisitions may require us to incur significant charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. We are required to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in conditions may prevent the Company from recovering the carrying value. Furthermore, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least once per year. We may be required to record a material charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which we analyze our intangible assets for impairment. Furthermore, future cash flows associated with our various advertising segment properties may decline due to changes in market conditions or technology, thereby requiring an impairment assessment of the property’s goodwill and other intangible assets. If we are unable to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, our reputation and brand could be impaired, and we could lose customers. We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as valuable to our business, and rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary property. Some of our trademarks or service marks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and we are currently applying for registration of a number of other trademarks and service marks. Completion of our applications for these trademarks and service marks may not be successful. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be impaired, and we could lose customers. We own numerous Internet domain names. National and international Internet regulatory bodies generally regulate the registration of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in other countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to maintain our domain names or obtain comparable domain names in all the countries in which we conduct business, which could harm our business. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks, service marks and similar proprietary rights is unclear and still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. 14 Table of Contents We compete in new and rapidly evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects based on historical operating results. We have historically repositioned our service and product offerings to adjust to evolving customer requirements and competitive pressures. Our prospects for financial success must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new, unproven and rapidly evolving markets, such as the Internet market. To address these risks, we must, among other things, expand our customer base, respond effectively to competitive developments, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, and continue to upgrade our technologies. If we are not successful in further developing and expanding our entertainment content, product and services businesses, and other related business opportunities, our ability to generate and increase profitability may not be achieved and our market price may decline. Our quarterly and long-term operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Due to the nature of our business, our future operating results may fluctuate. If we are unable to meet the expectations of investors and public market analysts, the market price of our common stock may decrease. We expect to experience fluctuations in future quarterly and annual operating results that may be caused by a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include: • our ability to increase our current level of e-commerce merchandise sales; • our ability to purchase online advertising at competitive rates to attract new e-commerce customers; • our reliance on three principal suppliers of e-commerce merchandise; • our ability to retain existing users, attract new users and maintain user satisfaction; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced content, websites, products and services, and strategic partnerships by us and our competitors; • seasonality of Internet advertising revenue and e-commerce revenue; • the level of use of the Internet and increasing consumer acceptance of the Internet for entertainment and the purchase of products and services; • our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure in a timely and effective manner; and • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure and the implementation of marketing programs, key agreements and strategic partnerships and general economic conditions. We may face litigation for information retrieved from the Internet. We could be sued for information retrieved from the Internet. Because material may be downloaded from websites and may be subsequently distributed to others, there is a potential that claims could be made against us, based on the nature and content of the material under legal theories such as defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other theories. Such claims have been brought against online companies in the past. In addition, we could be exposed to liability for material that may be accessible through our products, services and websites, including claims asserting that, by providing hypertext links to websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by those third-parties through the websites. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type, or the level of coverage may not be adequate to fully protect us against all liability that may be imposed. Any costs or imposition of liability or legal defense expenses that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of insurance coverage could reduce our working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, the legal effectiveness of the terms and conditions of use of our websites is uncertain. 15 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation and legal uncertainties could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business. Government regulation and legal uncertainties could increase our costs and risks of doing business on the Internet. There are currently few laws or regulations that specifically regulate commerce on the Internet. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as property ownership, defamation, taxation and personal privacy are applicable to the Internet. The application of existing laws, the adoption of new laws and regulations in the future, or increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to issues such as user privacy, pricing, taxation and the characteristics and quality of products and services, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace. The uncertainty created could reduce demand for our products and services, or increase the cost of doing business due to increased costs of litigation, regulatory inquiries or increased service delivery costs. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, a federal law that impacts the way certain commercial E-mails are sent over the Internet, took effect January 1, 2004 and preempted most state commercial E-mail laws. Penalties for failure to comply with the CAN-SPAM Act include significant fines, forfeiture of property and imprisonment. This law and other laws or regulations that impact E-mail advertising could reduce our revenues. The Federal Trade Commission and other governmental or regulatory bodies have increasingly focused on issues impacting online marketing practices and consumer protection. In our judgment, the marketing claims we make in advertisements we place to obtain new e-commerce customers are adequately supported. Governmental or regulatory bodies may make a different judgment about the adequacy of the support for the marketing claims we make. We could be subject to regulatory proceedings for past marketing campaigns, and we could be required to make changes in our future marketing claims, either of which could adversely affect our revenues. As our websites grow in popularity, we could be subjected to claims and incur compliance costs related to improper conduct by users. Websites that facilitate social interaction among users are core to the Company’s growth strategy. Online social interaction involves inherent risks that are not unique to our sites. The anonymity provided by the Internet can facilitate unlawful behavior. The terms of use of our websites prohibit a broad range of unlawful or undesirable conduct. Nevertheless, although we have a variety of measures in place to enforce these terms of use, the nature of online social interaction poses enforcement challenges. We are unable to block access in all instances to users who are determined to gain access to our sites for improper motives. Although we do not believe that current law subjects the Company to liability for the activities of such users, this area of law is unsettled. Claims may be threatened or brought against us using various legal theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims could be expensive, even to the extent that the claims do not ultimately result in liability. If the delivery of Internet advertising on the Web, or the delivery of our E-mail messages, is limited or blocked, demand for our products and services may decline. Our business may be adversely affected by the adoption by computer users of technologies that impact access to our products and services. For example, computer users may use software designed to filter or prevent the delivery of Internet advertising or deploy Internet browsers set to block the use of cookies. Microsoft Corporation has released Windows XP Service Pack 2 that adds pop-up blocking features to Internet Explorer. In addition, many Internet service providers and certain search engines have introduced anti-pop-up tools or agreed not to sell pop-ups to third parties. The number of computer users who employ these or other similar technologies is likely to increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our products and services. In the case that one or more of these technologies becomes widely adopted by computer users, demand for our products and services would decline. We also depend on our ability to deliver E-mails through Internet service providers and private networks. Internet service providers are able to block messages from reaching their users and we do not have, nor are we 16 Table of Contents required to have, agreements with any Internet service providers to deliver E-mails to their customers. As a result, we could experience periodic blockages of the delivery of E-mails to their customers, which would limit the effectiveness of our E-mail marketing. Some Internet service providers also use proprietary technologies to handle and deliver E-mail. If Internet service providers materially limit or block the delivery of our E-mails, or if our technology fails to be compatible with these Internet service providers’ E-mail technologies, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the effectiveness of E-mail marketing may decrease as a result of increased consumer resistance to E-mail marketing in general. Litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding the restatement of our financial statements could seriously harm our business. As previously reported, a consolidated stockholder lawsuit styled as a class action is pending against the Company, several of its current and former officers and/or employees, and the Company’s former auditor (the “Securities Litigation”). The Securities Litigation arises out of the Company’s restatement of quarterly financial results for fiscal year 2003. As a result of mediation in November 2004, the parties entered into a Stipulation of Settlement in January 2005 pursuant to which the parties propose to settle the Securities Litigation for $5.5 million in cash paid by the Company’s insurance carriers. The Court has recently preliminarily approved the settlement and formal notice of the settlement has been mailed to class members. The Court has scheduled a hearing regarding final approval of the settlement and dismissal of the lawsuit for September 19, 2005. Also as previously reported, two purported stockholder derivative actions, which are substantially similar, were filed in May 2003 against various current and former directors, officers, and/or employees of the Company (collectively, the “Derivative Litigation”). One of the actions remains pending in Federal Court (the “Federal Court Derivative Action”) and the other was dismissed by the Superior Court of California for the County of Los Angeles in October 2004 (the “State Court Derivative Action”). The Derivative Litigation similarly arises out of the Company’s restatement of quarterly financial results for fiscal year 2003. See Note 7 – Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8) for more information on this and other legal proceedings. We may be not able to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the Internet industry, which could cause us to lose customers and revenue. Rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and user demands, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the market for Internet products and services. These market characteristics are exacerbated by the emerging nature of the market and the fact that many companies are expected to introduce new Internet products and services in the near future. Our future success will depend on our ability to continually improve our content offerings and products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of developing multimedia-enabling technologies could require fundamental and costly changes in our technology and could fundamentally affect the nature, viability and measurability of Internet-based advertising and direct marketing, which may harm our business. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During fiscal year 2005, the closing sale prices of our common stock ranged from $1.70 to $8.85 per share and the closing sale price on June 24, 2005 was $8.30 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results; announcements of technological innovations or new services and media properties by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Significant portions of our operations are located in California, which is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. In addition, our operations are susceptible to outages due to “rolling black-outs”, fire, floods, telecommunication failures, break-ins, and other natural disasters. We have multiple website capacity to minimize disruption to our services; however, not all services provided by the Company are supported by such redundancy. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our services may become vulnerable to new computer viruses and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems or personal computers for individuals. 