ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations would likely suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Any forward-looking statements set forth in this Report should be considered in light of the factors discussed below. Risks Related to the Restatement of Our Prior Financial Results and Correction of Previously Reported Financial Information On September 19, 2006, Agile announced that it had commenced a voluntary review of stock option grant practices through a Special Committee of one independent director appointed by the Audit Committee of the Board, with the assistance of independent legal council. The Special Committee concluded that the measurement dates for financial accounting purposes for a number of stock option grants differed from the recorded grant dates for such awards. Because the prices at the originally stated grant dates were lower than the prices on the revised measurement dates, we recognized material amounts of stock compensation expense in our previously issued financial statements. Accordingly, the Board of Directors and management concluded that our previously issued financial statements for fiscal years 2000 through 2005, including each of the quarters in fiscal 2005, should no longer be relied upon and should be restated. The effects of the Special Committee review, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, the derivative litigation filed against us, as discussed below, and related events could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of the events described above, we have become subject to the following significant risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Face Risks Related to Possible SEC and Regulatory Actions Regarding Our Historical Stock Option Grant Practices, Which Could Require Significant Management Time and Attention, and Could Require Us to Pay Fines or Other Penalties. In connection with our review of our historical stock option grant practices, we have voluntarily continued to keep the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) advised of the issues identified during the review, its progress, and our conclusions. Although no formal inquiry has been made by any regulatory agency with respect to our review and the related restatement, we are unable to predict whether any such formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences, if any, that any such further inquiry may have on us. Any regulatory inquiry could result in substantial legal and accounting expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If a regulatory agency were to commence legal action, it is possible that we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or fines and could become subject to administrative orders. Any regulatory action could result in the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. 15 Table of Contents Any Regulatory Action Against Us Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses, and Result in Diversion of Management Resources. We have incurred, to date, significant expenses relating to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the review of our stock option grant practices and the related restatement, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we have also incurred significant expenses relating to our review of our Taiwan sales office. Our senior management team, our Audit Committee and the Special Committee have devoted a significant amount of time on matters relating to these investigations, as well as to our possible delisting from Nasdaq and other regulatory inquiries, the restatement, and our outstanding periodic reports. Further management time may be required in connection with recently filed derivative litigation. If our senior management is unable to devote a significant amount of time in the future to developing and attaining our strategic business initiatives and running our ongoing business operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We Face Litigation Risks Relating to Our Stock Option Grant Practices That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company. On December 5, 2006, a purported shareholder filed a shareholder derivative action in the Northern District of California, brought purportedly on our behalf. It names as defendants our directors and certain current and former officers. The complaint alleges that the individual defendants caused or allowed backdated stock options to be granted from 2000 to 2002, in violation of the federal securities laws and their fiduciary duties to us and our shareholders. Subsequently, three similar derivative actions, alleging the backdating of stock option grants from August 1999 through October 2003, were filed in the same court. It is expected that all of these derivative actions will be consolidated into one action. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a further description of these proceedings. The defense of these derivative lawsuits may result in significant expense and the continued diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. The lawsuits are in the preliminary stage, but an unfavorable outcome in any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these lawsuits may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required, subject to certain limited qualifications, to indemnify, and advance expenses to, our officers and directors in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that such payments in connection with the derivative actions will not be material. Additionally, in the future, we may be the subject of additional private or government actions related to our option grant practices. Litigation is time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation, as well as its costs, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, and results of operations and cash flows. Because of the Delayed Filing of Our Periodic Reports, We Face Delisting From Nasdaq. Delisting Would Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. As a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, on August 1, 2006, we received a Nasdaq staff determination letter indicating that we had failed to comply with the filing requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2006, and that our securities are, therefore, subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market. We received and announced two additional Nasdaq staff determination letters with respect to our failure to timely file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2007. We requested and subsequently attended a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (Listing Panel), which was held on September 14, 2006, to appeal the staff determination and presented a plan to cure the filing deficiencies and regain compliance. On October 11, 2006, Nasdaq notified us that the exception had been granted, and that it would continue to list our shares on the Nasdaq Global Market, provided that we file our Form 10-K for fiscal 2006, our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and all required restatements on or before January 8, 2007. 16 Table of Contents Although we were unable to meet this condition by January 8, 2007, the Nasdaq Listing and Hearing Review Council (Listing Council), pursuant to its discretionary authority under Marketplace Rule 4807(b), has decided to review the decision of the Listing Panel, and has stayed the decision to suspend our securities from trading, pending further action by the Listing Council. Our stock will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market pending the decision by the Listing Council on our request for a further extension within which to comply with the listing rules. The Listing Council gave us until February 2, 2007, to submit to Nasdaq information we wish the Listing Council to consider in its review process. On that date, we provided such submission to Nasdaq. If the Listing Council does not grant our request for an additional extension and continued listing, if the extension is not for the duration we requested, or if we are otherwise unable to meet or maintain compliance with all of the Nasdaq listing requirements, our securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. If we are delisted, we may apply for listing on another exchange. However, there is no assurance that we will meet the requirements for initial listing or maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of such an exchange. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock. Our Internal Control and Procedures for Financial Reporting May Not Ensure That Our Public Filings Include Timely and Reliable Financial Information. In addition to our restatement of prior period financial statements as a result of our review of our historical stock option grant practices, our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K reflect adjustments to the financial information previously reported in our press release, dated May 25, 2006, for the quarter and fiscal year ended April 30, 2006. The adjustments arose out of an investigation by our Audit Committee, commenced in June, 2006, as reported in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 14, 2006, into certain transactions entered into by our Taiwan sales office. The review initially centered upon confirmation of the validity of a specific sale transaction. It was subsequently expanded to include a review of all material revenue transactions entered into by the Taiwan sales office during fiscal years 2004 through 2006 and our relationship with, and transactions entered into with and by, a reseller in Taiwan. In connection with this investigation, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K. We identified and reported to our Audit Committee and independent registered public accounting firm two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as of April 30, 2006. As a result of these material weaknesses, we determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of April 30, 2006. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures is still limited by a variety of factors, and the remedial measures that we adopted in response to the weaknesses identified may not be successful to prevent similar events from recurring. These factors include the following: • Faulty human judgment and simple error, omission or mistake • Fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people • Inappropriate override of procedures • The possibility that our enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure the timely and accurate preparation of information and the timely filing of our periodic reports with the SEC A failure to successfully implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including any ineffectiveness of the remedial measures we have implemented to address the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business As Our Quarterly Operating Results Fluctuate and are Difficult to Predict, the Timing of Large Orders are Highly Unpredictable, and Our Expenses are Relatively Fixed in the Short Term, We May Incur Unpredicted Revenue Shortfalls that Could Disproportionately and Adversely Affect Operating Results. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future. Our products have a complex and unpredictable sales cycle. The timing of large orders, which can account for a significant percentage of our total license revenue, remains unpredictable as a result of the overall economic conditions, cautious capital spending by businesses and customer expenditure approval processes. In addition, due to the longer implementation cycles associated with our newer products, follow-on orders from existing customers may not follow original orders as quickly as they have done in the past, thus making the timing of such orders harder to predict. If any large order anticipated for a particular quarter is not received in that quarter, or the related license revenue is not recognizable in that quarter, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues. In contrast, our expense levels are relatively fixed in the near term and are based in part on expectations of future revenues. As a result, a revenue shortfall from estimated levels can cause a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results for the quarter in which the revenue shortfall occurs. Due to these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below our guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, potentially significantly. Defects in Our Software Products Could Harm Our Reputation, Diminish Demand for Our Products, Be Costly to Remediate, Expose Us to Litigation and/or Cause Our Revenue to Decline. Our software products are complex and may contain errors that may be detected at any point in the life of the product. This risk is more significant as it relates to new products, where there is limited experience with the product in customer environments, and increases with the complexity of the product in question. We began shipping Agile 9 in January 2004 and released the latest update, Agile 9.2, during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. Agile 9 is a suite of products based on a newly developed architecture, and provides extensive new features and capabilities delivered on an enterprise technology platform. Agile 9 has also been developed to operate with a wider array of database, applications server and underlying technologies than were our prior products. Some of these underlying technologies are themselves relatively new and immature, both with respect to their stability and ability to integrate with other applications. In addition, more than was the case with our prior products, Agile 9 is being implemented to address a broader range of customer requirements. As can be expected with software as complex as Agile 9, in the course of customer implementation activities for Agile 9, we have encountered bugs and errors not identified during our pre-release testing. While we believe that these bugs or errors do not affect the functionality of Agile 9, in any material respect, and that Agile 9.2 has addressed many of such issues raised to date, these errors, and other errors we may find in Agile 9 or in any of the other products we sell, including Agile Advantage, Agile e6 or our Cimmetry product line, could result in (i) lost or delayed revenue and market acceptance, (ii) injury to our reputation, (iii) increased service and warranty costs, including the potential need to provide services at reduced fees or no charge at all in order to address related customer concerns, and (iv) claims or litigation for breach of contract or warranty. Any of these adverse consequences, either alone or in conjunction with others, could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. If We Do Not Achieve a High Level of Customer Satisfaction, Our Customers May Not Purchase Additional Products from Us and Our Reputation in the Market Could Suffer, Adversely Impacting Our Ability to Attract New Customers. The size of a new customer’s initial order is often relatively small and may include a limited number of user licenses. In subsequent orders, customers typically add user licenses and/or additional products. We depend, to a 18 Table of Contents significant extent, on sales of additional user licenses and products to our existing customers to grow our revenues. Therefore, it is important that our customers are satisfied with their initial product implementations and that they believe that expanded use of the product they purchased, or the purchase of additional products, will provide them with additional benefits. Our products are generally integrated with many disparate systems operated by our customers. Through our professional services organization, we provide implementation services for our software on a fee-for-service basis. Implementations generally involve migrating data from existing systems, and configuring the Agile products to operate with the customers’ existing computer systems and software. Agile 9 and Agile e6 each provide new product modules and extensive new features and capabilities, and are designed to address a broader set of business objectives than were our prior products. Agile 9 and Agile e6 implementations may involve multiple products being deployed across multiple departments within the customers’ organizations and configuring the Agile software to operate with a broader range of existing systems and software. As a result, implementations of Agile 9 and Agile e6 will often take longer than was the case with our earlier products, where principally only one product was deployed across a typically narrower user base. Longer implementations may cause the customer to delay placing or fail to place orders for additional licenses or products. This is particularly true where delays in implementation cause delays in the deployment and initial production use of our products. The added product modules, features and functionality of our newer products has also meant that our newer products sometimes require more user training than was the case with our prior products. In addition, as is often the case with major software upgrades, customers accustomed to the user interfaces and commands of prior versions of our software may experience dissatisfaction with the new user interfaces, and at having to learn new commands and navigation tools. Such user experiences can lead to dissatisfaction with our products as a whole and delays in, or the customers’ unwillingness to place, orders for additional licenses or products. Failure to maintain customer satisfaction for any reason could mean that follow-on orders would be delayed or may not occur at all, either of which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. The Market For Our Products Is Still Developing, and There Is Significant Uncertainty as to How Rapidly It Will Grow, If at All, and How Large It Will Become. The market for PLM software products is still developing. Our customers and potential customers have not traditionally automated product lifecycle management solutions like we offer throughout their supply chains. As this is a relatively new market, we cannot be certain that this market will continue to develop and grow. Many customers and prospective customers have already invested substantial resources in other methods of sharing product information during the manufacturing and supply process, most notably internally developed applications. These customers and prospective customers may be reluctant to adopt a new approach that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems or methods. Moreover, customers and prospective customers have many competing demands placed on their available information technology budgets. There can be no assurance that PLM in general or Agile in particular will compete favorably against other potential uses of information technology spending. We expect that we will continue to need to pursue intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products. Along with our direct efforts in these areas, we also rely upon relationships with consulting and integration partners to increase the market awareness of the existence and benefits of our PLM solutions. Currently, only a limited number of companies provide this type of market support for our products. These companies are not contractually obligated to promote our products, and they may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. If these service providers reduce or discontinue their relationships with us, market acceptance of our products could be harmed. As a result of these factors, demand for and market acceptance of our products is subject to a high level of uncertainty. If the PLM market fails to develop as we anticipate, or if our products do not receive wide acceptance, our ability to grow would be limited. 19 Table of Contents We Have Significant International Operations, Which Expose Us to Risks Inherent in Conducting Business Activities in Geographies Outside of the United States. Since early in fiscal 2003, we have had research and development operations in India and China. In August 2003, through our acquisition of Eigner, we began significant operations in Germany, and in February 2005 we began significant operations in Canada through our acquisition of Cimmetry. We also have sales offices located in many additional locations. In addition to the increase in our international operations, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the United States. For example, during fiscal 2006, revenues from customers located outside of North America represented approximately 29% of total revenues. We expect our operations and revenues from outside of North America to represent a significant portion of our overall operations and fiscal 2007 revenues, respectively. Our recent and expected international expansion subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting operations internationally, including: • Difficulties in managing geographically disparate operations; • Longer sales cycles associated with educating foreign customers on the benefits of using our products; • Greater difficulty and longer time in collecting accounts receivable from foreign customers; • Difficulty in providing customer support for our software in multiple time zones and languages; • Requirements for, and costs of, developing our software in multiple foreign languages; • Difficulties in enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our software or sell into particular jurisdictions that impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; • Political and economic instability, civil unrest or war; • Terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • Difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; • Changing laws and policies affecting economic liberalization, foreign investment, currency convertibility or exchange rates, taxation or employment; and • Nationalization of foreign owned assets, including intellectual property. A significant portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in local currencies. As a result, we are exposed to greater risks of currency fluctuations. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging activities, and therefore our international revenues and expenses are currently subject to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. For example, we assumed a Euro-denominated obligation in connection with our acquisition of Eigner. As a result of the Euro strengthening against the US Dollar during fiscal 2004, we recorded an unrealized loss from foreign currency translation of $639,000 related to this obligation. We may continue to experience losses resulting from foreign currency fluctuations in the future. We believe that continued expansion of our international operations will be necessary for our future success, and a key aspect to our business strategy has been and is to expand our sales and support organizations internationally. Therefore, we believe that we will need to commit additional significant resources to expand our international operations. If we are unable to successfully expand further in international markets on a timely basis, or if this expansion is more difficult than expected, we may not be able to achieve desired levels of revenue growth. In addition, due to the time delay between hiring sales personnel and such personnel becoming fully productive, expansion of our international operations is likely to increase our operating costs in the near term without an immediate corresponding increase in revenues, thus adversely affecting our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Competition Among Providers of Product Lifecycle Management Software May Increase, Particularly if Industry Consolidation Continues, Which May Cause Us to Reduce Prices, and Experience Resulting Reduced Gross Margins, or Lose Business to Competitors, Resulting in a Loss of Market Share. We believe that the market for product lifecycle management solutions is becoming increasingly competitive due to a number of factors, including: (i) consolidation in the product lifecycle management software industry, which is expected to continue and increase, resulting in larger competitors, as shown by the acquisition of MatrixOne by Dassault Systemes and the recently announced acquisition of UGS by Siemens; (ii) alliances among existing competitors; (iii) alliances between our competitors and systems integrators; and (iv) entry of new competitors. In addition, as a result of the increasing availability of offshore software development resources, we have begun to face additional competition from customers’ and prospective customers’ custom development efforts. We have occasionally experienced pricing pressure on sales of our products, in circumstances in which competitors have offered to sell licenses at much lower cost in exchange for customer purchases of maintenance or other products or services from the competitor. In some situations, we believe competitors may have offered initial licenses at no or very low cost in order to establish or expand a relationship with the customer or to prevent us from establishing an initial relationship with a prospect. We expect that these pressures will continue, particularly with the continued constraint in the capital budgets for purchases of enterprise software under which our customers are operating. In order to remain competitive, and retain or expand our market share, and to expand our sales into new industries, we may have to meet some of these demands for lower prices on our license fees, and offer initial licenses at low, or even no cost, to the customer. There is a risk that, even as the economy improves overall, businesses may not increase their information technology spending commensurate with their business growth. Moreover, even in an environment of increasing information technology spending, we (and other PLM vendors) are not only competing for PLM opportunities, but also competing against unrelated internal projects and against vendors of unrelated products and services, all of whom are competing for the limited information technology spending by current and prospective customers. There can be no assurance that PLM in general or Agile in particular will compete favorably against other potential uses of information technology spending. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competition, particularly competitors that have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements. Also, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be leveraged to gain market share to our detriment. These competitors may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and offer more attractive terms to purchasers than we can. These and other competitive factors could result in price reductions, reduced revenues and gross margins and lost market share and an inability to expand into new markets and industries, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If We Fail to Successfully Integrate the Businesses and Companies That We Have Recently Acquired or May Acquire in the Future, We May Not Achieve the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisitions. If We Fail to Identify and Successfully Acquire Additional Products, Technologies and Companies, Our Long-Term Competitive Position May Be Adversely Affected. We continue our strategy of acquiring complementary businesses and technologies with our acquisition of Prodika in June 2006, our acquisition of substantially all of the business assets of Cimmetry, Inc. in February 2005, and our acquisition of Eigner US Inc. in August 2003. While each of these acquisitions has resulted or is expected to result in benefits to us as a combined company, achieving the full benefits of each of these and any future acquisitions depends on many factors, including the successful and timely integration of the products, technologies, personnel, and operations of the acquired companies. These integration efforts are difficult and 21 Table of Contents time consuming, especially considering the highly technical and complex nature of each company’s products. We may encounter risks to our business as a result of such acquisitions, including: • Difficulties in integration of acquired personnel, operations, technologies or products; • Unanticipated acquisition costs, such as integration expenses and expenses associated with retiring excess facilities or other assets; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • Adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our customers and business partners, and the risk of losing the customers of acquired companies, particularly where, as is the case with our recent Cimmetry acquisition, those customers may compete with us; • Inability to retain key employees of acquired companies; and • Difficulties and added expenses associated with bringing acquired companies into our internal control framework in a timely manner as may be required for on-going compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are unable to successfully and timely integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies, to train, retain and motivate personnel from acquired companies or to retain the acquired customer base, we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions. Going forward, we believe that acquiring additional products, technologies and/or companies will be important to remaining competitive in the PLM marketplace. However, we may not be able to identify complementary acquisition targets or, even once targets are identified, we may not be able to reach agreement on the terms of acquisitions or complete the acquisitions. Acquisitions could cause us to issue dilutive equity securities, incur debt or contingent liabilities, impair goodwill, amortize other intangibles, write off in-process research and development and other acquisition-related expenses, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our Success Depends Upon Attracting and Retaining Qualified Employees. Our success as a company is dependent, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to attract the qualified people we seek, or if we are unable to retain our existing employees, our customer satisfaction and therefore our business could suffer. In addition, if we are unable to retain our key sales executives, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Finally, in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123R, we are issuing fewer stock options to our employees than we have in the past. These changes in approaches to employee compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain the highly qualified personnel we need. If Our Service Revenue Increases As a Percentage of Total Revenues, or if Demand for Our Services Exceeds Internal Capacity, or Our Reliance on Third-Party Subcontractors Increases, Our Gross Margin May be Negatively Impacted; We Currently Perform Some of Our Implementations on a Fixed-Price Basis, Which Could Cause Us to Incur More Costs Than We Expect. We realize lower margins on service revenue, particularly with respect to professional services, than on license revenue. As a result, if service revenue increases as a percentage of total revenues, our gross margins may decrease. The profitability of our professional services is critically dependent on our ability to maintain a minimum average billing rate and a fairly high utilization level of professional services personnel. If we are unable to maintain or improve our billing and utilization rates, the profitability of our professional services activities, our service revenue and our overall profitability will suffer. 22 Table of Contents If demand for our services exceeds the capacity of our internal services organization, we may have to engage third parties to perform all or a portion of each of the services engagements. The costs associated with using third parties generally are significantly higher than the costs associated with direct delivery of services. As a result, the use of third parties may adversely impact our services gross margins. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, which may adversely affect our gross margins, as well as to hire additional personnel for our professional services organization. Newly hired services personnel require up-front training and take some time before becoming fully productive. Accordingly, the addition of a significant number of new services personnel can adversely affect services margins in the short term. We may at times charge customers a fixed-fee, or agree with customers to not exceed a specified amount of charges, for implementation services. If we underestimate the amount of time or resources required to implement our products in fixed-fee or such not-to-exceed engagements, our services gross margins could decline. Any decrease in our services gross margins will adversely impact our operating results. We Have New Sales Representatives, Particularly in Our International Sales Force, Who Could Take Time to Reach Productivity, Which Could Result in Lost or Delayed Sales. We sell our products primarily through our direct sales force. We have recently added and expect to continue to add sales personnel in the future, particularly internationally. In addition, our product offering has become significantly broader and more complex. Training existing and new sales personnel on the full range of products we now offer can be a substantial undertaking, and it generally takes six to twelve months for a new account executive to become fully productive. In addition, changes in account executives can also result in the need to reestablish relationships with existing customers. This can result in customer dissatisfaction, and lost or delayed sales, as customers become accustomed to their new account executives. The ability of our entire sales force to effectively sell our full suite of products, including products acquired with our acquisition of Prodika, will be important to our growth. If new members of our sales team are unable to quickly become fully productive, or if we cannot successfully cross-train our expanded sales force in our full suite of products, it may be difficult for us to sell our products, and we may lose sales opportunities and market share, take longer to close anticipated sales, and experience a shortfall in revenues. Software Product Development Is Inherently Complex, and We Could Experience Difficulties in Introducing New Products and Upgrades Which Could Result in Lost or Delayed Sales. Our future financial performance depends on the successful and timely development, introduction, and market acceptance of new and enhanced products, including products that we may introduce using technology that we acquire from other companies. The lifecycles of our products are difficult to predict because the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. Although our software products can be used with a variety of popular industry standard technology platforms, there may be future or existing platforms that achieve popularity in the marketplace that may not be architecturally compatible with our software product design. It may be necessary for us to invest significant resources to adapt our software if new or different platforms or operating environments become widely adopted in our current and prospective customer base. In addition, we believe that our software must be sufficiently scalable to accommodate substantial numbers of users to achieve the level of market acceptance and customer satisfaction that we believe is critical to our success. If we are unable to offer new and enhanced products as the market and technology evolve, if our products are not sufficiently scalable, or if we encounter development difficulties with new products we release, we may find it difficult to sell products to existing and prospective customers. Moreover, customers may delay purchasing decisions if they are aware that new or enhanced products are soon to be released. If we experience 23 Table of Contents difficulties or delays in releasing new and enhanced products that customers are expecting, we may experience lost or delayed sales. Delays in releasing new and enhanced products could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, particularly in the periods when the new or enhanced products were expected to become available. Our Efforts to Expand Sales of Our Products to Other Industries May Not Succeed, Thereby Limiting Our Available Markets and Revenue Growth Potential. We currently sell our products primarily to companies in the electronics and high technology, life sciences, consumer packaged goods, automotive, aerospace and defense, and industrial products industries. We also market products to customers in additional industries, including retail and government. Although we have targeted enterprises in these other industries as potential customers, these potential customers may not be as willing to purchase our products as our customers in the electronic and high technology, life sciences, consumer packaged goods, automotive, aerospace and defense, and industrial products industries have been. Targeting additional industries requires us to invest significant amounts in sales and marketing activities. If we are unable to expand our sales in such other industries, we may not recover this investment, or maintain or increase sales of our software. If We Become Subject to Product Liability Litigation, It Could Be Time Consuming and Costly to Defend. Since our products are used for mission critical applications in the supply chain, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other harm to our customers. For example, our products are designed to communicate information relating to changes in product specifications during the manufacturing process. If a supplier or other participant receives inaccurate or erroneous data, it is possible that it could claim it incurred damages based on its reliance on that data. Although our license agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability damages, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. While we carry product liability insurance, our insurance may not fully cover these claims. Product liability litigation, even if successfully defended, would be time-consuming and costly to defend and could harm our reputation and business. Changes in Global Business Conditions Could Adversely Affect Demand for Our Products and Services, Thereby Negatively Impacting Our Revenues and Results of Operations. Our operating results have been adversely affected over the past few years by reduced levels of capital spending, overall weak economic conditions affecting our current and potential customers and political uncertainties such as the ongoing threat of terrorist strikes. The economic environment that we face is uncertain. Companies have become much more cautious and deliberate in their evaluation of, and decisions to expand on, technology products and services. Because customers and potential customers are deferring and may continue to defer major infrastructure investments until general economic conditions improve, we may be especially prone to this weak economy, particularly as it relates to large license transactions. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property We May Lose a Valuable Asset, Experience Reduced Market Share or Incur Costly Litigation to Protect Our Rights; We May Also Be Subject to Intellectual Property Infringement Claims That, Even Without Merit, Could Be Costly to Defend or Settle. Our success and ability to compete depends upon our proprietary technology, particularly the technology underlying our products. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, a third party could copy or otherwise obtain our software or other proprietary information without authorization. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patents, trade secrets or know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending intellectual 24 Table of Contents property rights is quite expensive, could cause the diversion of our resources, and may not prove successful. Our existing or future protective measures may prove inadequate to protect all of our proprietary rights, and any failure to enforce or protect such rights could cause us to lose a valuable asset. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor the use of our products or technologies as we increase our international presence. We may, from time to time, be subject to claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights or claims that our own intellectual property rights are invalid. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry regarding intellectual property rights. It is possible that, in the future, third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property. We expect that software product developers and providers of electronic commerce solutions will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of PLM products begins to overlap with other software applications. Infringement claims may also increase as a result of the increased mobility of employees from job to job, resulting in the possible misuse, whether or not intended at a new company, of the intellectual property of the company at which the employee was previously employed. Any infringement claims made against us, even without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays or negative publicity. In addition, if our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to continue to be able to sell our products. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us and, if entered into, are likely to adversely affect our operating results. We Have a History of Losses and May Not Achieve or Maintain Profitability. We have incurred annual losses in each of the years since we were formed. We incurred a loss of $8.4 million for fiscal 2006. As of April 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $369.7 million. Due principally to the amortization of intangibles acquired in the Prodika and Cimmetry acquisitions and the adoption of SFAS 123R effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2006, we will likely not be profitable on a GAAP basis for the foreseeable future. In addition, we have incurred significant additional expenses, relating to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the review of our stock option grant practices and the investigation of our Taiwan sales office in the first three quarters of fiscal 2007. We may incur significant expenses of the same nature through the remainder of fiscal 2007 in connection with these matters, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Achieving and sustaining profitable results, even on a non-GAAP basis, will depend upon careful expense management coupled with higher revenue levels. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain expenses at target levels. There can also be no assurance that our revenues will increase. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We Depend on Third-Party Licensed Technology That, if Lost, Could Result in Increased Cost or Delays in Sales of Our Products. We license technology on a non-exclusive basis from many companies for use with our products. We utilize database management and application server software from Oracle. Our customers can purchase this software directly from Oracle or from us. In addition, we integrate software into our products licensed from BEA for application server technology, from Actuate for reporting capabilities, Spicer for document viewing and Cognos for analytics, as well as products from several other providers. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. Some of the software we license from third parties would be difficult to replace and may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss or inability to maintain any of these technology licenses could result in delays in the licensing of our products until equivalent technology is identified, licensed, and integrated. The increased use of third-party software could result in higher royalty payments and a loss of product differentiation and lower product gross margins. 25 Table of Contents The Market Price of our Common Stock Has Been and May Continue to Be Volatile, Which Could Result in Substantial Losses for Individual Security Holders. The market price for our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. During fiscal 2006, the high and low closing sales prices of our common stock were $7.73 and $5.88, respectively. Our stock price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities, many companies have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become a defendant in a securities class action suit, we could incur significant defense costs and damages and experience diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Legislative Action and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements Could Cause our General and Administrative Expenses to Increase. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as recent changes to listing standards by NASDAQ, and rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, our outside legal, accounting and advisory services have increased, and may continue to increase. Moreover, in the rapidly changing regulatory environment in which we now operate, there is significant uncertainty as to what will be required to comply with many of the new rules and regulations. As a result, we may be required to spend substantially more than we currently estimate, and may need to divert resources from other activities, as we develop our compliance plans. Provisions Contained in Our Charter Documents and in Certain Anti-Takeover Measures Adopted By Us May Delay or Prevent a Change in Our Control. Provisions of our Delaware certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions also may prevent changes in our management. We are subject to the provision of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10 million shares of Preferred Stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of shares of Preferred Stock, while potentially providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and for other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Further, in March 2001, our Board of Directors adopted a Preferred Stock purchase rights plan intended to guard against certain takeover tactics. The existence of this plan could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 