Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our shares involves risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the factors described below before making an investment decision in our securities. The risks described below are the risks that we currently believe are material risks of the business and the industry in which we compete. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 13 Table of Contents Our future success may be impaired and our operating results will suffer if we cannot respond to rapid market, competitive and technological conditions in the software industry The market for our software products and services is characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • frequent introduction of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services by platform vendors of database, application and Windows products and by our competitors; • increasing complexity and interdependence of software applications; • consolidation of the software industry; • changes in industry standards and practices; and • changes in customer requirements and demands. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance our existing products and develop new products and services, functionality, and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers, which requires significant investment in research and development resources and capabilities, involves significant technical and business risks and requires substantial lead-time and significant investments in product development. If we fail to anticipate new technology developments, customer requirements, industry standards, or if we are unable to develop new products and services that adequately address these new developments, requirements, and standards in a timely manner, or if we are incapable of timely bringing new or enhanced products to market, our products and services may become obsolete, we may not generate suitable returns from our research and development investments, and our ability to compete may be impaired, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may suffer. During the past four years, a large portion of our revenue growth has been attributable to the growth of our Microsoft Systems Management products and services, and we have relied upon sustained revenue and cash flow generation from our database management products in order to fund sales, marketing and research and development initiatives associated with our other product areas. We cannot provide any assurance that the revenues we derive from these product areas will continue to grow. In addition, over the last few years we have committed significant resources to development of new and enhanced application management products and have expanded our sales and services organizations to address anticipated business opportunities presented by our expanding application management product and services lines. We cannot provide any assurance that this strategy will be successful or that the release of our enhanced application management products or other new products or services will increase our revenue growth rate. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in future periods and, as a result, we may fail to meet expectations of investors and analysts, causing our stock price to fluctuate or decline Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. These factors include the following: • the size and timing of customer orders. See “Variations in the size and timing of our customer orders and differing nature of our products and services could expose us to revenue fluctuations and higher operating costs;” • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchasing decisions and budget cycles; 14 Table of Contents • the timing of revenue recognition for sales of software products and services (See “Contractual terms or issues arising during software license negotiations may affect the timing of transactions and revenues”); • the extent to which our customers renew their maintenance contracts with us; • exposure to general economic conditions and reductions in corporate or public sector IT spending; • changes in our level of operating expenses and our ability to control costs; • our ability to attain market acceptance of new products and services and enhancements to our existing products; • our ability to introduce new products or enhancements to existing products and services in a timely manner; • our ability to maintain our field and inside sales organizations with adequate numbers of sales and services personnel, and to minimize our costs of sales and marketing through efficient allocation of sales resources and methods to products having different sales characteristics and profiles; • the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by our competitors and changes in the pricing policies of these competitors; • the relative growth rates of competing operating system, database and application platforms and competitive conditions among vendors of these platforms; • the unpredictability of the timing, level of sales and subsequent revenue recognition of our expanded efforts within our indirect sales channels; • costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses, including acquired in-process research and development and amortization costs for intangible assets and possible impairments and uncertainties arising from the integration of products, services, employees and operations of acquired companies; and • the timing of releases of new versions of third-party software products that our products support or with which our products compete. In addition, the timing of our software product revenues is difficult to predict and can vary substantially from product-to-product and customer-to-customer. We budget our operating expenses on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. The timing of larger orders and customer buying patterns are difficult to forecast. Therefore, we may not learn of shortfalls in revenue or earnings or other failures to meet our expectations until late in a particular quarter. As a result, if total revenues for a particular quarter are below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. We have experienced seasonality in our orders and revenues. We typically achieve the highest levels of orders and revenues for the year in the fourth quarter, which levels are usually higher than we achieve in the first quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from the budgeting cycles of our customers being typically higher in the third and fourth quarters and, to a lesser extent, from the structure of our sales commission program. In addition, the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter to finalize orders has resulted in higher order volumes towards the end of the quarter. These factors, combined with the relatively fixed nature of our expenses, leads to seasonality of earnings. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future. 15 Table of Contents Due to these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations are also likely to affect the market price of our common stock, if our operating results differ from expectations of investors or securities analysts, and may not be related to or indicative of our long-term performance. Variations in the size and timing of our customer orders and differing nature of our products and services could expose us to revenue fluctuations and higher operating costs Our license revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and delivered in that quarter. Our revenues in a given quarter could be adversely affected if we are unable to complete one or more large license transactions or if the contract terms were to prevent us from recognizing revenue during that quarter. The sales cycles for certain of our software products can last from three to nine months, or longer, and often require pre-purchase evaluation periods and customer education, which can affect timing of orders. Further, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last month, weeks or days of each quarter and delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenue to fall short of anticipated levels. Finally, while a portion of our revenues each quarter is recognized from previously deferred revenue, our quarterly performance will depend primarily upon current order volumes to generate revenues for that quarter. These factors may cause significant periodic variation in our license revenues. In addition, we incur or commit to operating expenses based on anticipated revenue levels, and generally do not know whether revenues in any quarter will meet expectations until the end of that quarter. Our product portfolio is engineered for a broad variety of operating system, database and application platforms, and having a diverse set of functions and features. Some products, such as our database management products and other component products, are directed at database administrators and are generally sold at lower price points, and we strive to generate demand for these products through our telesales organization and marketing programs designed to maximize lead generation and website traffic. Sales of other, enterprise-wide products, primarily SharePlex and Foglight, require substantial time and effort from our sales and support staff as well as involvement by our professional services organizations and, to an increasing degree, our systems integrator partners. Large individual sales, or even small delays in customer orders, can cause significant variation in our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations for a particular period. Historically, we have not placed significant reliance on large sales transactions in any given quarter, with a substantial volume of our revenues being driven from smaller transactions. However, if we encounter difficulty sustaining our component product volumes, and cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders, or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. For these reasons, we face increasing complexity in building and sustaining the optimum combination of field and inside sales personnel to address the various and changing sales and distribution characteristics of our products, which in turn impacts our ability to manage and minimize our sales and marketing costs. We rely heavily on our direct sales activities for license and services revenues, including renewals of annual maintenance contracts. We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our sales force in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues and other internal considerations. We recently made some adjustments to our coverage model to increase focus on global and other major accounts. We have also recently increased headcount in our telesales and sales associate groups. These changes can result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity, which could have temporary negative effects on our license or services revenues. Accordingly, if our revenue growth rates slow or our revenues decline, or if we fail to efficiently correlate our sales and marketing resources to our various products and their differing sales and distribution strategies, our operating results could be seriously impaired because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in nature and cannot be easily or quickly changed. 16 Table of Contents Contractual terms or issues arising during software license negotiations may affect the timing of transactions and revenues Because our software products are designed to work with critical elements of the information technology systems of our customers, pre-sales evaluations of our products by potential customers and contractual negotiations are often protracted and complex, and the time necessary to negotiate mutually acceptable terms of and complete software license or services transactions often result in extended sales cycles. While we generally use standardized forms of software license agreements and order documentation in our transactions, it is not uncommon for large, more sophisticated IT customers to heavily negotiate terms and conditions for sales and services involving amendments to our standard forms or the use of alternative forms of agreements, which can also delay completion of transactions and recognition of the related revenue. Several other factors may require us to defer recognition of license revenue for a period of time after entering into a license arrangement, including instances where we are required to deliver specified additional products, product upgrades or services for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value or where negotiated terms of the software license agreement affect other software revenue recognition requirements. Many of our products are vulnerable to direct competition from Oracle and other platform vendors We compete with Oracle in the market for database management solutions and the competitive pressure continues to increase. We expect that Oracle’s commitment to and presence in the database management product market will increase in the future and therefore substantially increase competitive pressures. We believe that Oracle will continue to incorporate database management technology into its server software offerings and expand their development products possibly at no additional cost to its users. Competition from Oracle with certain of our Database Management products including SharePlex and Quest Central for Oracle has increased over the last two years and has continued to increase with Oracle’s introduction of the next version of its database, known as Oracle 11g. Oracle 11g has enhanced capabilities in the functions competitive with SharePlex, Quest Central for Oracle and with the Oracle monitoring capabilities of Foglight including monitoring capabilities from the entire application stack. We believe increased competition from Oracle has materially depressed our SharePlex and Quest Central for Oracle revenues over the last four years. Oracle recently released SQL Developer which competes with TOAD, our market leading Database Development product for Oracle databases which contributes significantly to our revenues and net income. In addition to the increasing competitive pressure from Oracle, Microsoft has continually upgraded the functionality of its platform offerings, which we also believe will increase competitive pressure for our Microsoft products in the future. In some cases these types of platform vendor-provided tools are bundled with the platform and in other cases they are separately chargeable products, albeit at significantly lower price points. The inclusion of the functionality of our software as standard features of the underlying database solution or application supported by our products or sale at much lower cost could erode our revenues, particularly if the competing products and features were of comparable capability to our products. Even if the functionality provided as standard features or lower costs by these system providers is more limited than that of our software, there can be no assurance that a significant number of customers would not elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing our products. Moreover, there is substantial risk that the mere announcements of competing products or features by large competitors such as Oracle could result in the delay or cancellation of customer orders for our products in anticipation of the introduction of such new products or features. 17 Table of Contents Our migration products for Microsoft’s Active Directory and Exchange are vulnerable to fluctuations in the rate at which customers migrate to these products Our products for the migration, administration and management of Microsoft’s Active Directory and Exchange products currently contribute approximately 20% of our Windows platform revenue. Our ability to sell licenses for our Active Directory and Exchange migration products depends in part on the rate at which customers migrate to newer versions of Microsoft’s Active Directory or to newer versions of Microsoft Exchange, and from other messaging platforms to Exchange. If these migration rates were to materially decrease, our license revenues from these migration products would likely decline. Many of our products are dependent on database or application technologies of others; if these technologies lose market share or become incompatible with our products, or if these vendors introduce competitive products or acquire or form strategic relationships with our competitors, the demand for our products could suffer We believe that our success has depended in part, and will continue to depend in part for the foreseeable future, upon our relationships with providers of major database and enterprise software programs, including Oracle, IBM, Microsoft and SAP. Our competitive advantage consists in substantial part on the integration between our products and products provided by these major software providers, and our extensive knowledge of their products and technologies. If these companies for any reason decide to promote technologies and standards that are not compatible with our technologies, or if they lose market share for their database or application products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these major software vendors could attempt to increase their presence in the markets we serve by either introducing products that compete with our products or acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors. These companies have longer operating histories, larger installed bases of customers and substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and technical resources than we do, as well as well-established relationships with many of our present and potential customers, and may be in better position to withstand and respond to the current factors impacting this industry. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage our operations and grow revenue or fail to continue to effectively control expenses, our future operating results could be adversely affected Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage our current growth and any future growth effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and our current expectation for revenue growth, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. 18 Table of Contents Failure to develop and sustain additional distribution channels in the future may adversely affect our ability to grow revenues We intend to direct additional efforts to drive domestic and international revenue growth through sales of our products and services through indirect distribution channels, such as global hardware and software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers. Our ability to increase future revenues depends on our ability to expand our indirect distribution channels. If we fail in our efforts to maintain, expand and diversify our indirect distribution channels, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increasing activity in indirect distribution channels will present a number of additional risks, including: • we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities, which may result in lost sales and customer confusion; • our channel partners can cease marketing and distributing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; • our channel partners may not be able to effectively sell our products and services; • our channel partners may experience financial difficulties that might lead to delays, or even default, in their payment obligations; • we may not be able to recruit additional channel partners, or replace any of our existing ones; and • our channel partners may also offer competitive products and services, and may not give priority to marketing our products or services. Intense competition in the markets for our products could adversely affect our results of operations The markets for our products are highly competitive. As a result, our future success will be affected by our ability to, among other things, outperform our competitors in meeting the needs of current and prospective customers and identifying and addressing new technological and market opportunities. Our competitors may develop more advanced technology, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and undertake more effective sales and marketing campaigns and may be able to leverage more extensive financial, technical or partner resources. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our revenues may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Our international operations are generally conducted through our international subsidiaries, with the associated revenues and related expenses, and balance sheets, denominated in the currency of the country in which the international subsidiaries operate. As a result, our operating results may be harmed by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. The foreign currencies to which we currently have the most significant exposure are the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound, the Euro and the Australian Dollar. To date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 19 Table of Contents Our international operations and our planned expansion of our international operations expose us to certain risks We maintain research and development operations primarily in Canada, Australia, Russia and Israel, and continue to expand our international sales activities, with particular focus in Asia Pacific (including Japan), as part of our business strategy. As a percentage of total revenues, revenues outside of North America were 36%, 35% and 33% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As a result, we face increasing risks from our international operations, including, among others: • difficulties in staffing, managing and operating our foreign operations; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • difficulties in adapting our existing foreign operations, particularly in Asia, to the control structure and requirements of a US public entity given those Asian countries historical environment and their cultural approach to conducting business; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and in other periods in other countries; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • fluctuations in foreign currency conversion rates and our present policy decision not to directly hedge foreign currency transaction exposures; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenue from international operations if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • delays in localizing our products; • political unrest or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; • our ability to adapt and conform to accepted local business practices and customs, including providing letters of credit or other forms of support to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries or resellers; • compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, including employment restrictions; • compliance with licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; and • wage inflation in foreign countries where we have historically benefited from relatively low labor costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources and will place additional burdens on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. 20 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that investment and additional resources required in establishing facilities in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. In addition, we have limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing them internationally. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business and diversion of management attention We have in the past made and we expect to continue to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions require us to assimilate the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and train, retain and motivate key personnel from the acquired businesses. We may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if we fail in these efforts. Similarly, acquisitions may subject us to liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition or may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners. We may have to use cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. Use of cash or debt may affect our liquidity and use of cash would reduce our cash reserves and reduce our financial flexibility. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. In consummating acquisitions, we are also subject to risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of an acquisition. Accounting for equity investments in companies may affect our operating results We have made equity investments in other software companies and a private equity fund. We regularly consider opportunities to make equity investments in other companies focused on software development or marketing activities, and expect from time to time to complete additional investments. These investments are risky because the market for the products and technologies being developed by these companies are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Estimating the fair value of our equity investments is inherently subjective and may contribute to volatility in our reported results of operations. We have recognized accounting charges due to the impairment of the value of our investments in the past and may need to do so again in the future if we cannot substantiate the fair value of our strategic equity investments. If we are required to consolidate the operating results of these companies, use the equity method of accounting, or write down the value of our cost-method investments, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses We invest our cash balances in high-quality issuers and, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer other than the United States government and its agencies. Our investments in marketable securities consist of United States Government and Government Agency Bonds, Auction Rate Municipal securities and Commercial Paper. Our municipal auction rate securities are investment grade quality and are in compliance with our investment policy as of the end of 2007. We believe that these investments still approximate their par value however, such risks, including the systemic failure of future auctions for auction rate securities, may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investments in marketable securities. We face risks associated with governmental contracting We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with the United States government and its agencies and from contracts with state and local governments or agencies. Demand and payment for our products and services 21 Table of Contents are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability, with funding reductions or delays adversely impacting public sector demand for our products and services. Public sector customers may also change the way they procure new contracts and may adopt new rules or regulations governing contract procurement, including required competitive bidding or use of “open source” products, where available. These factors may limit the growth of or reduce the amount of revenues we derive from the public sector, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We may not generate increased business from our current customers, which could slow our revenue growth in the future Most of our customers initially make a purchase of our products for a single department or location. Many of these customers may choose not to expand their use of our products. If we fail to generate expanded business from our current customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, as we deploy new modules and features for our existing products or introduce new products, our current customers may choose not to purchase this new functionality or these new products. Maintenance revenue could decline Our services revenues arising from maintenance services have increased in each of the last three years as a result of a growing base of installed products. Declines in our license bookings, increased discounting in maintenance renewal bookings and/or a reduction in the historical rate of our customers’ renewal of maintenance contracts would lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. As maintenance revenue makes up a substantial portion of our total revenue, any decline in our maintenance revenue could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Failure to develop or leverage strategic relationships could harm our business by denying us selling opportunities and other benefits Our development, marketing, and distribution strategies rely increasingly on our ability to form strategic relationships with software and other technology companies. These business relationships often consist of cooperative marketing programs, joint customer seminars, lead referrals, and cooperation in product development. Many of these relationships are not contractual and depend on the continued voluntary cooperation of each party with us. Divergence in strategy or change in focus by, or competitive product offerings by, any of these companies may interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell, or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. Further, if these companies enter into strategic alliances with other companies or are acquired, they could reduce their support of our products. Our existing relationships may be jeopardized if we enter into alliances with competitors of our strategic partners. In addition, one or more of these companies may use the information they gain from their relationship with us to develop or market competing products. Matters relating to or arising from our stock option investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations We restated our consolidated financial statements for periods through March 31, 2006 to reflect the findings of a voluntary, independent investigation of our stock option granting practices and related accounting. This investigation was conducted by a Special Committee of the Board of Directors with the assistance of independent outside legal counsel and outside forensic accounting consultants. To date, we have incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the investigation, the related restatements and related regulatory inquiries or proceedings and litigation matters, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters. These events, even if resolved favorably, may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcomes of regulatory proceedings or litigation matters are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Although we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the financial and tax impacts of our historical stock option granting practices, we cannot provide assurance that the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and tax impacts. If the SEC or the IRS disagrees with our financial or tax adjustments or related disclosures and such disagreement results in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may be required to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other action that is not currently contemplated. In June 2006 we received an informal request for information from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our stock option practices. In January 2007 we were informed that the SEC issued a formal order of investigation in the matter. We have also been informally contacted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California and have been asked to voluntarily produce documents relating to our stock option granting practices. We are cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in connection with these matters, but can not predict if, when or how they will be resolved or what, if any, actions we may be required to take as part of any resolution of these matters. Any action by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney’s Office or other governmental agency could result in civil or criminal sanctions against us and/or certain of our current and former officers, directors and employees. Additionally, as discussed in Note 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are engaged in civil litigation with parties that have alleged a variety of claims against Quest and certain of our current and former officers and directors relating to our stock option grant practices and related accounting. Although we and the other defendants intend to defend these claims vigorously, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions will be resolved without substantial costs and/or settlement charges. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our present and former directors and executive officers under which Quest is required to indemnify each such directors or executive officers against expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlements, paid by such individual in connection with the pending litigation (other than indemnified liabilities arising from willful misconduct or conduct that is knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest). The resolution of the pending investigations by the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s Office, the defense of our pending civil litigation and any additional litigation relating to our past stock option grant practices or related restatement of our financial statements could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees. If we do not maintain compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted, which could negatively impact the trading market for our securities and impact our ability to maintain equity-based stock incentive programs for our employees As a result of the stock option investigation and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements we could not timely file certain of our periodic reports with the SEC and, accordingly, our Common Stock was subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. With our filing of all delinquent reports on December 31, 2007 we have achieved full compliance with SEC reporting requirements. We were unable to solicit proxies for an annual meeting of shareholders in 2006 or 2007 because we could not provide an annual report to shareholders in compliance with applicable securities regulations until we completed our restatement. As a result, we have not yet regained compliance with the Nasdaq listing requirements to solicit proxies and hold an annual meeting of shareholders. On February 19, 2008, we were informed by Nasdaq that it has granted our request for continued listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market subject to the condition that we solicit proxies and hold an annual meeting of shareholders on or before May 15, 2008. Our 2008 annual meeting of shareholders is scheduled to be held on May 8, 2008, whereupon we expect to have fully regained compliance with all of Nasdaq’s listing requirements. Our common stock could be delisted if we are required to further restate or amend our filings or if we otherwise do not maintain compliance with applicable listing requirements. If our securities are delisted from the 23 Table of Contents Nasdaq Global Select Market, they would subsequently be transferred to the National Quotation Service Bureau, or “Pink Sheets”. The trading of our common stock through the Pink Sheets might reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock through the Pink Sheets could materially and adversely affect our access to the capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or to raise capital at all. Securities that trade through the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading through the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. Increased compliance burdens can also be expected to impact our ability to maintain and administer stock option programs and other forms of equity incentives for our employees, which could also impair our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we are delisted in the future from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and transferred to the Pink Sheets, we could also be subject to other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our securities. Any or all of the foregoing consequences of delisting could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our management concluded that there was a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. See the discussion included in Part II, Item 9A of this Report for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that the material weakness identified in this Report will be adequately remedied or will be fully remedied by any specific date. In addition, we can provide no assurances that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. 24 Table of Contents We may incur additional expenses in order to assist our employees with potential federal and state income tax liabilities which may arise under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code As a result of our stock option investigation, we determined that many of our outstanding stock option awards were deemed to have been granted at an exercise price below the market value of our stock on the actual accounting measurement date. The primary adverse tax consequences are: (1) that the re-measured options vesting after December 31, 2004 are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law); and (2) certain incentive stock options previously granted, could be deemed granted at below market value producing incremental payroll tax liabilities. We recorded approximately $0.6 million of expenses in the year ended December 31, 2006 relating to the anticipated settlement by the Company of federal and applicable state income taxes on behalf of the Company’s employees for tainted options that were exercised during 2006. Employees of the Company who continue to hold tainted options may be subject to additional taxes, penalties and interest under Section 409A if no action is taken to cure the options from exposure under Section 409A before December 31, 2008. The Company intends to offer its employees who are subject to Section 409A an opportunity to amend or replace tainted options in order to limit the potential tax consequences of Section 409A as soon as practicable following the filing of this Report with the SEC. We expect to incur additional compensation expense upon completion of this program, which will be determined on the basis of the fair value of the amended or replaced options (including any consideration provided to employees in connection with an increase in the exercise price of their tainted options). Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position Our success and ability to compete are dependent on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. We generally rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright law and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such resulting litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and financial resources, which could harm our business. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate and competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We also believe that, because of the rapid rate of technological change in the software industry, trade secret and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of customer support services. Third parties may claim that our software products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, exposing us to litigation that, regardless of merit, may be costly to defend Our success and ability to compete are also dependent upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could have a significant effect on our business and financial results. Any future third party claim could be time consuming, divert management’s attention from our business operations and result in substantial litigation costs, including any monetary damages and customer indemnification obligations, which may result from such claims. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief affecting our ability to license the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. As a result of such claims, we may be required to obtain licenses from third 25 Table of Contents parties, develop alternative technology or redesign our products. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a successful claim is made against us and we are unable to develop or license alternative technology, our business and financial results and position could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if our software contains errors or security flaws The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors or security flaws will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third-party software applications and databases. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or security flaws or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: • loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share; • loss of customers; • damage to our reputation; • failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and • increased insurance costs. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could harm our business by increasing our costs and distracting our management. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into some of our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for, or prevent the shipping of, our products Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third-party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third-party vendors in our future products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could harm our sales unless and until we can secure an alternative source. Although we believe there are adequate alternate sources for the technology licensed to us, such alternate sources may not provide us with the same functionality as that currently provided to us. 26 Table of Contents Natural disasters or power outages could disrupt our business A substantial portion of our operations is located in California, and we are subject to risks of damage and business disruptions resulting from earthquakes, floods, wildfires and similar events, as well as from power outages. We have in the past experienced limited and temporary power outages in our California facilities due to power shortages, and we expect in the future to experience additional power losses. While the impact to our business and operating results has not been material, we cannot assure you that natural disasters or power outages will not adversely affect our business in the future. Since we do not have sufficient redundancy in our networking infrastructure, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could have an adverse effect on our business, including both our internal operations and our ability to communicate with our customers or sell and deliver our products. Failure to attract and retain personnel may negatively impact our business Our success and ability to compete depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, sales, engineering, marketing, support, professional services and finance personnel. We have recently had moderate turnover in our research and development organization, significant turnover in our sales department and in the management of our accounting and finance department, and many key positions are held by people who are new to the Company or to their roles. If these people are unable to quickly become familiar with the issues they face in their roles or are not well suited to their new roles, then this could result in the Company having problems in executing its strategy or in reporting its financial results. We are uniquely dependent upon the talents, relationships and contributions of a few executives and have no guarantee of their retention. We have been targeted by recruitment agencies seeking to hire our key management, finance, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. During the pendency of our stock option investigation and related restatement, we were unable to continue granting stock options to new and existing employees and did not permit exercises of outstanding stock options. These actions have impacted our overall competitive posture with respect to employee compensation and retention of qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or fail to reach expected levels of productivity, our ability to develop and market our products will be weakened. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 