Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business and financial condition are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. These risks and uncertainties include the following: The current economic downturn could adversely impact our future revenue. Our revenues are primarily derived from contracts with state, local and county government agencies in the United States. The budgets of many of these government agencies have been, or are expected to be, negatively impacted by the current economic downturn. As a result, the amount spent by the Company’s current clients on equipment and services supplied by the Company may be reduced or grow at rates slower than anticipated and it may be more difficult to attract additional government clients for the Company’s equipment and services. As a result, our ability to maintain or increase our revenues may be negatively affected. We have incurred significant losses and expect losses to continue. Our revenues have not been sufficient to cover our cost of operations and other expenses, and we have yet to establish profitable operations. We incurred net losses of $1,923,000 and $4,601,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 respectively. As a result, on December 31, 2009, the Company is reporting an accumulated deficit of $78,839,000. There is no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenues or manage our operating expenses so that our revenues will be sufficient to cover our operating expenses or that we will achieve profitability in the future. 8 We have incurred a substantial amount of secured debt and may not have enough cash to repay it at maturity. We have borrowed a total of $11,877,000 under a Credit and Security Agreement with Crestpark LP, Inc., an affiliate of our controlling shareholder. The entire principal of this loan, plus an estimated $2,964,000 of accrued interest, will be due and payable on January 1, 2012. Additional borrowings from Crestpark LP, Inc. include $280,000 under a separate equipment term loan agreement and $350,000 under a separate revolving credit agreement both of which are due and payable January 1, 2012. The borrowings under these credit facilities , excluding the revolving credit agreement, are secured by a first priority security interest in all of the assets of the Company except that Lender’s security interest in certain monitoring equipment is subordinate to the interest of AHK Leasing LLC. The borrowings under the revolving credit agreement are unsecured. To the extent that the Company is not able to retain sufficient cash flow from operations to repay principal and interest on these loans, we will need to refinance the loans through additional debt or equity financings. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service these loans and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance them or otherwise raise capital in order to repay all amounts that will be due and payable on the loans. If we cannot repay all principal and interest on the loans as due, we will be subject to all of the remedies available to the lender upon default, including foreclosure of virtually all of our assets. It is unlikely that the holders of our common stock would recover any of their investment if that were to occur. Markets for our products and services may develop slowly. The long-term financial viability of our company depends on our ability to attract additional customers for our GPS tracking system in order to increase revenues. There are many factors that affect the demand for our products and services that we cannot control. In particular, we sell our products to governmental agencies, such as state corrections departments. Accordingly, the acquisition and continued use of our products by these types of customers is generally subject to legislative appropriation of funds which is subject to budgetary and political considerations that change over time. Adoption of our GPS tracking system may represent a significant expenditure by these types of customers which often face restrictive budgetary constraints. In addition, contracts with governmental agencies are generally subject to a competitive bid process which is often time consuming and does not assure that we will be successful in selling our products and services or that we will be able to do so at prices that are economically beneficial for us. In addition, our industry is relatively new and many of our target customers are only now becoming aware of our products and services and the possible advantages they may provide. As a result, there is often a long sales cycle involved with sales of our products and services. Due to these market factors, the demand for GPS tracking systems is difficult to forecast and may develop slowly or sporadically. Accordingly, we may not be able to commercialize our products on the scale necessary to achieve profitability. We face significant competition and this may make it difficult to achieve profitability. We compete with a number of other companies that offer GPS solutions for offender tracking. In addition, many companies use GPS, electronic mapping and Internet technologies to provide tracking and monitoring products and services in other markets such as vehicle and rail car tracking, vehicle fleet management, container tracking and emergency response services. Companies serving these other markets may enter the offender tracking market in the future. Some of the companies with which we currently compete, or may compete against in the future, may have access to greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and procurement resources than we have. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully compete in our market. Accordingly, we may not be able to commercialize our products on the scale necessary to achieve profitability. 9 Our technology may become obsolete which could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services. If our technology, products and services become obsolete, our business operations would be materially adversely affected. The market in which we compete is characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards, introductions of new products, and changes in customer demands that can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We must continuously improve our product as the market demands smaller, lighter and more versatile PTUs. Faster and more accurate mapping software may make the mapping software currently used in our tracNET24 application obsolete. Future releases of Windows may also compel us to upgrade our application software. Our current application servers will require continuous upgrading with newer and faster models or our technology will become obsolete. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, database, and networking platforms and by developing and introducing enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards, and changing customer requirements. Accordingly, we have and expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses in the future. We rely on third party vendors to manufacture our products and if these vendors are unable to timely supply us with required components our business will be materially adversely affected. While we acquire the components used in our products from various vendors, we currently rely on a single electronics manufacturer, Altron, Inc. to manufacture most of our PTUs. In addition we have only one provider of ankle cuffs for each of the GPS tracking systems we offer. We have not qualified or contracted with other manufacturers for our PTUs or ankle cuffs. Accordingly, if our vendors encounter difficulties with meeting our demand, alternative components may not be available quickly enough to avoid delaying production and shipment of customer orders. Any such delays may hamper our ability to service existing customers or market our products and services to new customers. Also, if the agreements with our current providers are terminated or expire, our search for additional or replacement providers could result in significant delays, added expense and our inability to maintain or expand our customer base. We face the risk of systems interruptions and capacity constraints, possibly resulting in adverse publicity, revenue loss and erosion of customer trust. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience temporary service interruptions for a variety of reasons, including telecommunications or power failures, fire, water damage, vandalism, computer bugs or viruses or hardware failures. We may not be able to correct a problem in a timely manner. Any service interruption that results in the unavailability of our system or reduces its capacity could result in real or perceived public safety issues that may affect customer confidence in our services and result in negative publicity that could cause us to lose customer accounts or fail to obtain new accounts. Any inability to scale our systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer service, or impaired quality and speed of transaction processing. We are not certain that we will be able to project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services to permit us to upgrade and expand our systems effectively or to integrate smoothly any newly developed or purchased modules with our existing systems. If we were denied access to GPS technology, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our services rely on signals from GPS satellites built and maintained by the U.S. Department of Defense. GPS satellites and their ground support systems are subject to electronic and mechanical failures and sabotage. If one or more satellites malfunction, there could be a substantial delay before they are repaired or replaced, if at all, and our services may cease and customer satisfaction would suffer. In addition, the U.S. government could decide not to continue to operate and maintain Global Positioning System satellites over a long period of time or to charge for the use of the Global Positioning System. Furthermore, because of increasing commercial applications of the Global Positioning System, other U.S. government agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of Global Positioning System signals in the future. If the foregoing factors affect the availability and pricing of Global Positioning System technology, our business will suffer. Global Positioning System technology is also dependent on the use of radio frequency spectrum. An international organization known as the International Telecommunications Union controls the assignment of spectrum. If the International Telecommunications Union reallocates radio frequency spectrum, our services may become less useful or less reliable. This would, in turn, harm our business. In addition, emissions from mobile satellites and other equipment using other frequency bands may adversely affect the utility and reliability of our services. 10 If we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially adversely affected. In order to protect the technology and other intellectual property underlying our products and services, we rely on a combination of patents, license agreements, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks. We also rely on confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that any of the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate. There is a risk that any patents issued to us may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged; that the rights granted thereunder will not provide competitive advantages to us; or that none of our future patent applications will be issued with the scope of protection sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, there is a risk that others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around any patents issued to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The protection of our intellectual property in foreign countries is uncertain. We have not registered our patents with most foreign countries and may have no legal recourse to proceed against entities in such countries that choose to copy our hardware and/or software. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We depend on licensed technologies and may need to obtain additional licenses in the future to remain competitive. We have been granted a nonexclusive software license from a technology company that has designed GPS chip sets and software solutions that allow us to embed GPS technology into our products. This license has an indefinite term; however, it may be terminated if the licensor loses any of its rights to the software products encompassed therein or by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice in the event of a material breach of the license by the other party. Termination of this license could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses to additional technologies in the future in order to keep our products competitive. If we fail to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies, we may not be able to develop new products or services needed to remain competitive. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. There are other U.S. patents and patent applications submitted for technologies in, or related to, our principal area of business, and it is possible that foreign patents are also in existence or have been applied for by others. As a result, any application or exploitation of our technology could infringe on patents or proprietary rights of others and any licenses required as a result of such infringement might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may lead others to assert patent infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth of our company. If our business grows in the manner that we currently project, we must continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, train and manage our employees. We may not have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with this expansion, and our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support the growth of our operations. Our failure to manage growth effectively could cause us to incur substantial additional costs, lose opportunities to generate sales or impair our ability to maintain our customers. 11 Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The price for our common stock is volatile and may drop. The trading price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly over recent years. The volatility in the price of our stock is attributable to a number of factors, not all of which relate to our operating results and financial position. Nevertheless, continued volatility in the market price for our stock should be expected and we cannot assure you that the price of our stock will increase in the future. Fluctuations or further declines in the price of our stock may affect our ability to sell shares of our stock and to raise capital through future equity financing. We may issue a large number of shares to holders of preferred stock and warrants and the issuance and sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. We currently have warrants outstanding which entitle the holders thereof to acquire 2,227,087 shares of common stock. An additional 6,287,045 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of warrants to be issued upon exchange of our Series C 8% Exchangeable Preferred Stock (“Series C Preferred Stock”). In addition, the holder of our Series C Preferred Stock may convert this Series C Preferred Stock into 4,782,609 shares of common stock. In addition 2,188,700 shares of our common stock are issuable at December 31, 2009 in connection with stock options granted to employees. The issuance and sale of these shares is likely to result in substantial dilution to the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. The sale of these shares also has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market's ability to absorb the increased stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This presents an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to the further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more so, which, in turn, may cause long holders of the stock to sell their shares thereby contributing to sales of stock in the market. In 2005, we issued a significant number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock as part of a refinancing transaction and the holder of these shares has the ability to acquire a majority position in our common stock and appoint a majority of our Board. On June 27, 2005, we issued 1,000,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock plus warrants to acquire 3,234,248 shares of the Company’s common stock, of which 2,227,087 are currently outstanding, at exercise prices ranging from $2.30 to $16.50 per share. The Series C Preferred Stock is exchangeable for 4,782,609 shares of Common Stock and warrants to acquire 6,287,045 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $2.30 per share. Upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock into common stock, and exercise of its warrants, the holder of the Series C Preferred Stock will control a majority of the shares of our common stock. Prior to that time, the holder of the Series C Preferred Stock has the right to appoint a majority of our Board of Directors. In addition, each share of Series C Preferred Stock will have 11 votes on all other matters submitted to the vote of the Company’s stockholders. Accordingly, the holder of our Series C Preferred Stock holds a majority of the voting power held by all stockholders of the Company. If the holder of the Series C Preferred Stock exchanges its Series C Preferred Stock for shares of the Company’s common stock and exercises all of its warrants, it would own approximately 55% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. Our common stock is deemed to be "penny stock," which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · that the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. 12 In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. Among other requirements, the broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a written statement, which: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; · states, in a highlighted format, that it is unlawful for the broker or dealer to effect a transaction in a penny stock unless the broker or dealer has received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction; and · states, in a highlighted format immediately preceding the customer signature line, that the broker or dealer is required to provide the person with the written statement and that the investor should not sign and return the written statement to the broker or dealer if it does not accurately reflect the person’s financial situation, investment experience, and investment objectives. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Item 