ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes, before you decide to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us; however, they may not be the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligations to update any risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We will depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, which is still in development. Our first three Phase 3 trials did not meet their primary and key secondary endpoints. If we are unable to commercialize CORLUX for this indication, or experience significant delays in doing so, we may be unable to generate revenues and our stock price may decline. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. We currently do not have any commercial products and we anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate meaningful revenues and achieve profitability will be solely dependent on the successful development, approval and commercialization of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. We have completed three Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating CORLUX for this indication. None of the first three trials met its primary or key secondary endpoints. The FDA generally requires two positive Phase 3 studies prior to the submission of an NDA or one positive Phase 3 study plus sufficient supportive data. Many factors could harm our efforts to develop and commercialize CORLUX, including: • insufficient funding; • negative, inconclusive or otherwise unfavorable results from our pre-clinical or clinical development programs; • side effects that may be identified in the course of our clinical trials; • changes or delays in our clinical development program; • rapid technological change making CORLUX obsolete; • competition from companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours; • increases in the costs of our clinical trials; • an inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory approval for the commercialization of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression; • an inability to manufacture CORLUX or the active ingredient in CORLUX in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost; and • political concerns relating to other uses of mifepristone, or RU-486, that could limit the market acceptance of CORLUX. 19 Table of Contents Although our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial in Cushing’s Syndrome only requires 50 patients, both site selection and enrollment could be a relatively slow process. Delays in site selection and / or patient enrollment could extend the time and cost for completion or inhibit our ability to complete the trial at all. Cushing’s Syndrome is a rare disorder. An estimated 10 to 15 of every one million people are affected each year. The majority of the sites that treat patients with Cushing’s Syndrome are at academic institutions or large clinics in or affiliated with private hospitals. Academic institutions often take a prolonged period of time to complete the administrative activities required before a clinical trial can be initiated at that site. Because the disease is seen so infrequently, the process of identifying and screening the patients for participation in our study may be lengthy. Any delays in the process of identifying and screening either the clinical sites or the patients for enrollment in the study could delay the completion of the study, increase the cost or even inhibit our ability to complete the trial at all. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate that CORLUX is safe and effective. If our clinical program for CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression or for any other indications does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, our business will be harmed. To gain regulatory approval from the FDA to market CORLUX, our Phase 3 clinical trials must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of CORLUX for the particular indication. Our first three Phase 3 studies evaluating CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression did not meet their primary or key secondary endpoints. In addition to the need for an additional Phase 3 clinical trial, we are conducting, or plan to conduct, other studies in support of a potential NDA. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays, and data obtained from clinical trials and supportive studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. While we obtained favorable results in our Phase 2 clinical trials program in psychotic depression, these results were not replicated in a robust enough way in Studies 07, 09 or 06 and are not sufficient to support an application for FDA approval. In addition, we cannot assure you that supportive studies and tests will produce favorable results. The development plan for CORLUX is not certain, and will require additional, expensive clinical and preclinical trials. We may not be able to finance the development program. During the development of CORLUX, we have been engaged in dialogue with the FDA to determine an acceptable development plan which would enable the FDA to complete its review in a satisfactory manner. Because the results of our recently completed Phase 3 trials evaluating CORLUX for treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression did not meet their primary endpoints, the FDA will require us to pursue an additional clinical trial to demonstrate the safety and/or efficacy of CORLUX for this indication. The FDA generally requires two positive Phase 3 studies or one positive Phase 3 study with other supportive data to be completed prior to the submission of an NDA. In addition, the FDA may require us to pursue additional supportive studies. Recently, the FDA recommended that we conduct a dose proportionality study and other studies to determine whether there are interactions between CORLUX and some commonly used drugs. We are continuing our dialogue with the FDA to define any additional data needed to complete an NDA. Further, we may decide, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require us, to pursue additional clinical, pre-clinical or manufacturing studies to satisfactorily complete our NDA. For example, the FDA may require us to perform a bioequivalence study comparing our recently reformulated CORLUX clinical trial materials to the materials used in our earlier clinical trials. Additional trials or studies will require additional funding which is not assured. Also, it is possible that additional trials or studies that we decide are necessary or desirable will delay or prevent the completion of the development of CORLUX for treating psychotic depression. 20 Table of Contents If adequate funds are not available for our currently contemplated trials and studies, or for any further ones that we may decide are necessary or desirable, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs. Even if funds are available, additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants; obtaining funds through collaborations may be on unfavorable terms or may require us to relinquish certain rights to our technologies or product candidates, potentially including our lead product candidate, that we would otherwise seek to develop on our own. Even after we conduct all of the clinical trials and supportive studies that we consider appropriate for an optimal NDA, we may not receive regulatory approval to market CORLUX. Many other factors could delay or result in termination of our clinical trials, including, but not limited to: • negative or inconclusive results; • slow patient enrollment; • patient noncompliance with the protocol; • adverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials; • FDA inspections of our clinical operations; and • real or perceived lack of effectiveness or safety of CORLUX. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with no current source of product revenue. We have a limited history of operations and have focused primarily on clinical trials, and if the outcome of our clinical trials supports it, we plan to seek FDA regulatory clearance to market CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and for the treatment of Cushing’s Syndrome. Historically, we have funded our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $110.0 million. We do not know when or if we will generate product revenue. Subject to our ability to raise additional funds, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with the clinical trials and other development activities for CORLUX and for other product candidates. We expect to incur significant expenses related to the preparation for commercializing CORLUX and for the product’s launch, if the FDA approves our NDA. As a result, we expect that our losses will increase for the foreseeable future. We are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the timing of identification and selection of appropriate sites for our planned trials and the amount and timing of resources that the clinical sites that conduct the clinical testing may devote to our clinical trials. If our clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to enroll them on our planned schedules, we will be unable to complete our trials or to complete them as planned, which could delay or prevent us from completing the clinical development of CORLUX or other development programs. We have signed a Letter of Intent with a contract research organization, or CRO, that is conducting our fourth Phase 3 trial evaluating CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and anticipate signing an agreement with them to monitor clinical site performance and to perform investigator supervision, data collection and analysis for this trial. We may not be able to successfully complete those 21 Table of Contents negotiations or to maintain these relationships with this or other CROs or with the clinical investigators and the clinical sites through the completion of all trial activities without excessive expenditures. Our agreements place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in excessive expenditures for our clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these CROs, clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, CORLUX. The conduct of any future clinical trials will likely also be conducted through the use of CROs and investigative research sites. The conduct, timing and cost of these trials will be subject to the same kinds of risks as discussed above. In Study 14, our fourth clinical trial evaluating CORLUX for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, we have engaged MedAvante to provide centralized psychiatric ratings services. If patients are uncomfortable or unwilling to participate in the centralized rating process or if MedAvante is unable to provide services in a satisfactory manner over the course of the trial, we may not see any improvement in the accuracy, reliability and quality of the psychiatric assessments. In connection with our fourth Phase 3 trial evaluating CORLUX for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, Study 14, we have engaged MedAvante to provide centralized psychiatric ratings services. MedAvante will provide centralized psychometric assessments via high resolution video-conferencing. The use of MedAvante’s centralized rating services is expected to increase the accuracy, reliability, and quality of the psychiatric assessments. MedAvante has provided similar centralized rating services to companies conducting clinical studies in various psychiatric disorders. However, they have not previously provided centralized rating services to any study in patients with psychotic depression. Although Corcept and MedAvante conducted a small pilot evaluation in patients with psychotic depression to assess patient receptivity, we cannot be certain that centralized rating will be successful in the patients enrolled in our study. If patients are uncomfortable or unwilling to participate in the centralized rating process or if MedAvante is unable to provide services in a satisfactory manner over the course of the trial, we may not see any improvement in the accuracy or reliability of the psychiatric assessments. Such a result might diminish the likelihood of a successful trial or a definitive demonstration of the efficacy of CORLUX in treating the psychotic features of psychotic depression. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our product candidates, including CORLUX, and our business will be harmed. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval typically is an uncertain process, is costly and takes many years. In addition, failure to comply with the FDA and other applicable foreign and U.S. regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These include warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, or supplements to approved NDAs. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is never guaranteed. Despite the time, resources and effort expended, failure can occur at any stage. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process for human medicines. The FDA can deny, delay or limit approval of a product candidate for many reasons including: • the FDA may not find that the candidate is safe; • the FDA may not find data from the clinical or preclinical testing to be sufficient; or • the FDA may not approve our or our third party manufacturers’ processes or facilities. Future governmental action or changes in FDA policy or personnel may also result in delays or rejection of an NDA in the United States. In addition, because the only currently FDA-approved use of mifepristone is the termination of pregnancy, we expect that the label for CORLUX will include some limitations, including a warning that it should not be used by pregnant women or women seeking to become pregnant. If we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, including CORLUX, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory oversight and review, such as continued safety reporting requirements; and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our product candidates. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the medicine may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping for the medicine will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the medicine, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the medicine, and could include withdrawal of the medicine from the market. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from commercializing our product candidates abroad. We intend to commercialize our product candidates in international markets. Outside the United States, we can commercialize a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process, and, in some cases, additional risks. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We have not taken any actions to obtain foreign approvals. We may not develop our product candidates in the clinic in order to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our product candidates in any market. The “fast track” designation for the development program of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. If a human medicine is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the medicine demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the sponsor of an IND may apply for FDA “fast track” designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications submitted by sponsors of product candidates in fast track development may qualify for expedited FDA review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the fast track designation does not assure any such qualification. Although we have obtained a fast track designation from the FDA for CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to 23 Table of Contents applications considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw our fast track designation at any time. If we lose our fast track designation, the approval process may be delayed. In addition, our fast track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures and does not increase the likelihood that CORLUX will receive regulatory approval for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. Even if we receive approval for the marketing and sale of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, endogenous Cushing’s Syndrome or the mitigation of weight gain induced by the administration of atypical antipsychotic medications, CORLUX may never be accepted as a treatment for the approved indications. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression or for any other approved indication. Even if the FDA approves CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, for the treatment of Cushing’s Syndrome, for the management of weight gain when taken in combination with antipsychotic medications or any other indication, physicians may not adopt CORLUX. Physicians will recommend the use of CORLUX only if they determine, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles and other factors, that it is preferable to other products or treatments then in use. Acceptance of CORLUX among influential practitioners may be essential for market acceptance of CORLUX. Other factors that may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of CORLUX include: • the effectiveness of CORLUX, including any side effects, as compared to alternative treatment methods; • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA for CORLUX; • the cost-effectiveness of CORLUX and the availability of third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement, in particular from government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, for patients using CORLUX; • the timing of market entry of CORLUX relative to competitive products; • the intentional restriction of distribution of CORLUX to physicians treating the target patient population; • the extent and success of our sales and marketing efforts; • the rate of adoption of CORLUX by physicians and by target patient population; and • negative publicity concerning CORLUX, RU-486 or mifepristone. The failure of CORLUX to achieve market acceptance would prevent us from generating meaningful product revenue. Public perception of the active ingredient in CORLUX, mifepristone or RU-486, may limit our ability to market and sell CORLUX. The active ingredient in CORLUX, mifepristone, or RU-486, is used to terminate pregnancy. As a result, mifepristone has been and continues to be the subject of considerable ethical and political debate in the United States and elsewhere. Public perception of mifepristone may limit our ability to engage alternative manufacturers and may limit the commercial acceptance of CORLUX by patients and physicians. Even though we intend to create measures to minimize the likelihood of the prescribing of CORLUX to a pregnant woman, physicians may decline to prescribe CORLUX to a woman simply to avoid altogether any risk of unintentionally terminating a pregnancy. We intend to create measures for controlling the distribution of CORLUX to reduce the potential for diversion. However, controlled distribution may negatively impact sales of CORLUX. 24 Table of Contents We have no manufacturing capabilities and we currently depend on third parties to manufacture the active ingredient and the tablets for CORLUX. The tablet manufacturer is a single source supplier. If these suppliers are unable to continue manufacturing CORLUX and we are unable to contract quickly with alternative sources, our business will be harmed. We currently have no experience in, and we do not own facilities for, nor do we plan to develop facilities for, manufacturing any products. We have agreements with two manufacturers of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of mifepristone and an agreement with a tablet manufacturer for development quantities of CORLUX. The tablet manufacturer is a single source supplier to us. Our current arrangements with these manufacturers are terminable by either party at any time. Although we anticipate engaging our current tablet supplier to produce commercial quantities of CORLUX, we cannot guarantee that we will enter into an agreement with them on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable, for whatever reason, to obtain the active pharmaceutical ingredient or CORLUX tablets from our contract manufacturers, we may not be able to manufacture our required quantities of CORLUX in a timely manner, if at all. If our third-party manufacturers of CORLUX fail to comply with FDA regulations or otherwise fail to meet our requirements, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed. We depend on third party manufacturers to supply the active pharmaceutical ingredient in CORLUX and to manufacture CORLUX tablets. These suppliers and manufacturers must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations and guidelines. Our suppliers and manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving quality control and quality assurance and may experience shortages of qualified personnel. Their failure to follow cGMP or other regulatory requirements and to document their compliance with cGMP may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study or the termination or hold on a clinical study, or may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for CORLUX. Failure of our third party suppliers and manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. If the operations of any current or future supplier or manufacturer were to become unavailable for any reason, commercialization of CORLUX could be delayed and our revenue from product sales could be reduced. We may use a different third-party manufacturer to produce commercial quantities of CORLUX than we are using in our clinical trials. The FDA may require us to conduct a study to demonstrate that the tablets used in our clinical trials are equivalent to the final commercial product. If we are unable to establish that the tablets are equivalent or if the FDA disagrees with the results of our study, commercial launch of CORLUX would be delayed. If we or others identify side effects after our product candidates are on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of our future products or withdraw our future products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. If we or others identify side effects after any of our product candidates are on the market: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to reformulate our future products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of such products or implement changes to or obtain re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities; • we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; 25 Table of Contents • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action lawsuits. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these product candidates. If CORLUX or future product candidates conflict with the patents of others or if we become involved in other intellectual property disputes, we could have to engage in costly litigation or obtain a license and we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for the use of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and other potential uses of GR-II antagonists. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our intellectual property and erode our competitive advantage. To date, we own seven issued U.S. patents and have exclusively licensed three issued U.S. patents, in each case along with a number of corresponding foreign patents or patent applications. We also have eight U.S. method of use patent applications for GR-II antagonists and three composition of matter patent applications covering specific GR-II antagonists. We have applied, and will continue to apply, for patents covering our product candidates as we deem appropriate. We have exclusively licensed three issued U.S. patents from Stanford University for the use of GR-II antagonists in the treatment of psychotic major depression, which is commonly referred to as psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis and early dementia, including early Alzheimer’s disease. We bear the costs of protecting and defending the rights to these patents. In order to maintain the exclusive license to these patents until their expiration, we are obligated to make milestone and royalty payments to Stanford University. We are currently in compliance with our obligations under this agreement. If we become noncompliant, we may lose the right to commercialize CORLUX for the treatment of psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis and early dementia and our business would be materially harmed. In addition, if Stanford University were to terminate our CORLUX license due to breach of the license on our part, we would not be able to commercialize CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis or early dementia. Our patent applications and patents licensed or issued to us may be challenged by third parties and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. For example, in 2004, Akzo Nobel filed an observation challenging the claims of our exclusively licensed European patent application with claims directed to psychotic depression. In 2005, we filed a rebuttal to the EPO that responded to the points raised by Akzo Nobel. In February 2006, the EPO allowed our patent application and in July 2006, this patent was issued. In April 2007 the Company received notification that there will be no opposition proceedings in Europe in regards to this patent. Our presently pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. For example, the arguments presented by Akzo Nobel could be raised in the United States either before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in a court of law. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued to us, or which may be issued to us in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our competitors may produce competing products based on our technology, which would impair our ability to compete. If a third party were successful in asserting an infringement claim against us, we could be forced to pay damages and prevented from developing, manufacturing or marketing our potential products. We do not have 26 Table of Contents liability insurance for patent infringements. A third party could require us to obtain a license to continue to use their intellectual property, and we may not be able to do so on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We believe that significant litigation will continue in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is expensive and diverts management’s attention from other business. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, our ability to compete in the market could be diminished. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, laws protecting trade secrets and security measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Nevertheless, these measures may not adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If they do not adequately protect our rights, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could diminish our ability to compete in the market. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our product candidates may breach their agreements with us regarding our trade secrets and other proprietary information, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through means not currently foreseen. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative products that are equal or superior to our product candidates without infringing on any of our proprietary information or trade secrets. Our licensed patent covering the use of mifepristone to treat psychotic depression is a method of use patent rather than a composition of matter patent, which increases the risk that physicians will prescribe another manufacturer’s mifepristone for the treatment of psychotic depression rather than CORLUX. We have an exclusive license from Stanford University to a patent covering the use of GR-II antagonists, including mifepristone, targeted for the treatment of psychotic depression. A method of use patent covers only a specified use of a particular compound, not a particular composition of matter. All of our issued patents and all but three of our 11 U.S. patent applications relate to use patents. Because none of our issued patents covers the composition of mifepristone or any other compound, we cannot prevent others from commercializing mifepristone or any other GR-II antagonist in indications not covered by our patents. If others receive approval to manufacture and market mifepristone or any other GR-II antagonist, physicians could prescribe mifepristone or any other GR-II antagonist for patients with psychotic depression instead of CORLUX. Although any such “off-label” use would violate our licensed patent, effectively monitoring compliance with our licensed patent may be difficult and costly. In addition, if others develop a treatment for psychotic depression that works through a mechanism which does not involve the GR-II receptor, physicians could prescribe that treatment instead of CORLUX. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, resulting in damage to our reputation and business. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a drug for a use that has not been cleared or approved by FDA. Use of a drug outside its approved indications is known as “off-label” use. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false 27 Table of Contents claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond CORLUX are at a very early stage. If we fail to identify and develop additional uses for GR-II antagonists, we may be unable to market additional products. To develop additional potential sources of revenue, we believe that we must identify and develop additional product candidates. We own or have exclusively licensed issued U.S. patents covering the use of GR-II antagonists to treat psychotic depression, weight gain following treatment with antipsychotic medication, early dementia, mild cognitive impairment, psychosis associated with cocaine addiction, delirium, ECT, gastroesophageal reflux disease, Down’s Syndrome and stress disorders, in addition to eight U.S. method of use patent applications covering GR-II antagonists for the treatment of a number of other metabolic and psychiatric disorders and three U.S. composition of matter patent applications covering specific GR-II antagonists. We may not develop product candidates for any of the indications or compounds covered by our patents and patent applications. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials, so our product development efforts may not lead to commercially viable products. The use of GR-II antagonists may not be effective to treat these conditions or any other indications. In addition, we could discover that the use of GR-II antagonists in these patient populations has unacceptable side effects or is otherwise not safe. We may elect to enter into collaboration arrangements with respect to one or more of our product candidates. If we do enter into such an arrangement, we would be dependent on a collaborative partner for the success of the product candidates developed under the arrangement. Any future collaborative partner may fail to successfully develop or commercialize a product candidate under a collaborative arrangement. We only have experience with CORLUX and we may determine that CORLUX is not desirable for uses other than for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. In that event, we would have to identify and may need to secure rights to a different GR-II antagonist. For example, we may not develop CORLUX for mitigation of the weight gain associated with the use of olanzapine, even though we have reported positive top-line results regarding the proof of concept study described earlier in this Form 10-K. We may pursue other GR-II antagonists for this use. The compounds developed pursuant to our discovery research program may fail to generate commercially viable product candidates in spite of the resources we have dedicated to the program. Even if product candidates are identified, we may abandon further development efforts before we reach clinical trials or after expending significant expense and time conducting clinical trials due to financial constraints, concerns over safety, efficacy of the product candidates or for other reasons. Moreover, governmental authorities may enact new legislation or regulations that could limit or restrict our development efforts. If we are unable to successfully discover and commercialize new uses for GR-II antagonists, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. We will need additional capital in order to complete the development and commercialization of CORLUX and our other proprietary selective GR-II antagonists. Additional capital may not be available to us at all or on favorable terms. We believe that, after completing the financing transactions in March 2008, we have sufficient capital resources to complete the final reporting for our recently completed psychotic depression trials, to conduct our planned clinical trials in Cushing’s Syndrome psychotic depression, and the management of weight gain induced by antipsychotic medications, and to continue development work on our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists. 28 Table of Contents We anticipate that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to fund our current operating plan into early 2010. However, our expectations include an estimate of proceeds from a variable funding source (see risk statement directly below) and are based on our currently planned clinical development and research programs for CORLUX and for certain of our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists, which may change as a result of many factors, including: • the costs, timing of site selection and enrollment of our clinical trials; • the results of our research efforts and clinical trials; • the need to perform additional clinical trials; • the timing of the approval by the FDA, if any, to market CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of PMD; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including announcements of claims of infringement, interference or litigation against us or our licensors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in our growth rates; • changes in our research development plans for our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonist • the timing of commercialization of CORLUX and future product candidates; and • changes in the reimbursement policies of third-party insurance companies or government agencies. We will have to perform additional clinical trials prior to submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA, for CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and for Cushing’s Syndrome. We will need to raise additional funds to complete the development of CORLUX for the treatment of psychotic depression, Cushing’s Syndrome and weight gain management associated with antipsychotic medications, to prepare for its commercialization and to continue and expand the development of our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. Our inability to raise capital would harm our business and product development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our then-existing stockholders. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we obtain funds through collaborations with others, these arrangements may be on unfavorable terms or may require us to relinquish certain rights to our technologies or product candidates, including potentially our lead product candidate, that we would otherwise seek to develop on our own. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or we may be required to discontinue operations. The Committed Equity Financing Facility (CEFF) that we entered into with Kingsbridge on March 25, 2008 may not be available to us at certain times, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge, and may result in dilution to our stockholders. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to the lesser of $60.0 million or approximately 9.6 million shares, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Based on the closing price of our common stock 29 Table of Contents on the Nasdaq Capital Market on March 27, 2008, we would only be able to raise approximately $27 million in net proceeds under the CEFF. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase additional shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; the continued effectiveness of the shelf registration statement; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of 10 days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access alternative capital on favorable terms or at all. We are entitled in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the shelf registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares thereunder. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the shelf registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our agreement with Kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of the payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge (exclusive of shares that Kingsbridge may hold pursuant to exercise of the Kingsbridge warrant) and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the shelf registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the shelf registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. If we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. For each draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. We may not be able to pursue all of our product research and development opportunities if we are unable to secure adequate funding for these programs. The costs required to start or continue many of the programs that our intellectual property allow us to consider for further development are collectively greater that the funds currently available to us. For example, we have successfully discovered three series of compounds that are specific GR-II antagonists but, unlike CORLUX, do not appear to block the progesterone receptor. Further development of these programs and others, such as the use of GR-II antagonists for the mitigation of weight gain associated with olanzapine, may be delayed or cancelled if we determine that such development may jeopardize our ability to complete the clinical development of CORLUX for the treatment of psychotic depression or for Cushing’s Syndrome. We may have substantial exposure to product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover those claims. We may be subject to product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our products has resulted in adverse effects or that our product candidates are not effective, whether by participants in our clinical trials for CORLUX or other product candidates, or by patients using our future products. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product candidates’ safety or efficacy and could limit our ability to sell a product by preventing or interfering with product commercialization. In some cases, less common adverse effects of a pharmaceutical product are not known until long after the FDA approves the product for marketing. The active ingredient in CORLUX is used to terminate pregnancy. Therefore, necessary 30 Table of Contents and strict precautions must be taken by clinicians using the medicine in our clinical trials and, if approved by the FDA, physicians prescribing the medicine to women with childbearing potential, to insure that the medicine is not administered to pregnant women. The failure to observe these precautions could result in significant product claims. We have only limited product liability insurance coverage, with limits that we believe to be customary for a development stage company. We intend to expand our product liability insurance coverage to any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. However, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our product candidates. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from conducting our business. If a third party successfully sues us for any injury caused by our product candidates, our liability could exceed our total assets. If CORLUX is approved and we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate coverage and reimbursement for it from third-party payors, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. There is significant uncertainty related to the availability of third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved medications. The commercial success of our potential medications in both domestic and international markets is dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for them. Government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medicines, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our medications. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit our revenues. Our dependence on the commercial success of CORLUX alone makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, even if CORLUX or future product candidates are approved for commercial sale, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our future products, physicians may not prescribe them. We intend to sell CORLUX directly to hospitals if we receive FDA approval. As a result, we will need to obtain approval from hospital formularies to receive wide-spread third-party coverage and reimbursement. If we fail to obtain that approval, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed health care in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products and may result in lower prices for our future products or the exclusion of such products from reimbursement programs. We face competition from companies with substantial financial, technical and marketing resources, which could limit our future revenues from the commercialization of CORLUX for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression or for other indications. If approved for commercial use, CORLUX as a treatment for psychotic depression will compete with established treatments, including ECT and combination medicinal therapy. Combination medicinal therapy consists of the use of antipsychotic and antidepressant medicines, not currently approved for the treatment of psychotic depression. The antipsychotics are prescribed for off-label use by physicians to treat the psychotic features of psychotic depression, which is the clinical target of CORLUX. Antipsychotics include Bristol-Myers Squibb’s Abilify, Novartis’ Clozaril, Pfizer’s Geodon and Navane, Ortho-McNeil’s Haldol, Janssen Pharmaceutica’s Risperdal, AstraZeneca’s Seroquel, GlaxoSmithKline’s Stelazine and Thorazine, Mylan’s Mellaril, Schering Corporation’s Trilafon and Eli Lilly’s Zyprexa. CORLUX may not compete effectively with these established treatments. We are aware of one clinical trial conducted by the 31 Table of Contents pharmaceutical division of Akzo Nobel, for a new chemical entity for the treatment of psychotic depression. This new chemical entity is a GR-II antagonist, the commercial use of which would be covered by our patent. As discussed above, in 2004, Akzo Nobel filed an observation in our exclusively licensed European patent application with claims directed to psychotic depression, in which Akzo Nobel challenged the claims of that patent application. In 2005, we filed a rebuttal to the EPO that responded to the points raised by Akzo Nobel. In February 2006, the EPO allowed our patent application. In July 2006, the patent was issued. We are not aware of any public disclosures by any company, other than Akzo Nobel, regarding the development of new products to treat psychotic depression. We are aware that Laboratoire HRA Pharma has received an Orphan Drug Designation in the United States and Europe for the use of mifepristone to treat a subtype of Cushing’s Syndrome and has began a Phase II clinical trial in Europe and the United States for this indication. If this product is approved for commercialization before CORLUX, our potential future revenue could be reduced by the possibility of off-label use of mifepristone for psychotic depression or for Cushing’s Syndrome. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical companies, as well as specialized pharmaceutical firms, universities and public and private research institutions. Moreover, we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made. These competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may succeed with the development and commercialization of medicinal products that are superior to and more cost-effective than CORLUX. Many of our competitors and related private and public research and academic institutions have greater experience, more financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in developing human medicines, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and commercializing products. Accordingly, CORLUX may not be an effective competitor against established treatments and our present or potential competitors may succeed in developing medicinal products that are superior to CORLUX or render CORLUX obsolete or non-competitive. If we are unable to establish CORLUX as a superior and cost-effective treatment for psychotic depression, or any future use, we may be unable to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. Rapid technological change could make our product candidates obsolete. Pharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change and we expect that they will continue to do so. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any products and processes that we develop may become obsolete or uneconomical before we recover any or all expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our product candidates obsolete or uneconomical, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no sales staff and limited marketing activities and will need to develop sales and marketing capabilities to successfully commercialize CORLUX and any future uses of GR-II antagonists. Our employees have limited experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and we currently have no sales staff or marketing activities. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must either develop a sales and marketing force or enter into arrangements with others to market and sell our future products. We currently plan to establish a small, specialty sales force to market and sell CORLUX in the United States for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. However, our sales and marketing efforts may not be successful or cost-effective. In the event that the commercial launch of CORLUX is delayed due to FDA requirements or other reasons, we may establish a sales and marketing force too early relative to the launch of CORLUX. This may be expensive, and our investment would be lost if the sales and marketing force could not be retained. If our efforts to develop a sales and marketing force are not successful, cost-effective and timely, we may not achieve profitability. 32 Table of Contents We may need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As we expand our research and development efforts and develop a sales and marketing organization, we expect to experience growth, which may strain our operations, product development and other managerial and operating resources. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. To date, we have relied on a small management team, including a number of part-time contributors. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our research and development efforts effectively; • manage our clinical trials effectively; • integrate additional management, clinical development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; • expand the size and composition of our management team; • develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional qualified personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our business. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to pursue our product development and commercialization efforts. We depend substantially on the principal members of our management and scientific staff, including Joseph K. Belanoff, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, and Robert L. Roe, M.D., our President. We do not have agreements with any of our executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us or employment insurance covering any of our key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and work for one of our competitors. The loss of these key individuals could result in competitive harm because we could experience delays in our product research, development and commercialization efforts without their expertise. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel, and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. We face intense competition for such personnel from numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations in the highly competitive northern California business area. Although we believe that we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to date, we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel in the future. The inability to attract and retain these personnel could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our potential products. If we acquire other GR-II antagonists or other technologies or potential products, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire other GR-II antagonists, particularly GR-II antagonists that do not terminate pregnancy. We may also be able to acquire other technologies or potential products that are complementary to our operating plan. We currently have no commitments, agreements or plans for any acquisitions. The process of acquiring rights to another GR-II 33 Table of Contents antagonist or any other potential product or technology may result in unforeseen difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. In addition, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquired potential product or technology. Future acquisitions could dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest in us and could cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization or other expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster or other similar events could cause damage to our or our manufacturers’ facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Because our executive offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area and some of our current manufacturers are located in earthquake-prone areas, our business is vulnerable to damage from various types of disasters or other similarly disruptive events, including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss and communications failures. In addition, political considerations relating to mifepristone may put us and our manufacturers at increased risk for terrorist attacks, protests or other disruptive events. If any disaster or other similar event were to occur, we may not be able to operate our business and our manufacturers may not be able to produce our product candidates. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover, and our insurance policies may exclude coverage for, our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Risks Related to Our Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile due to the limited number of shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates of the Company or factors influencing the stock market and opportunities for sale at any given time may be limited. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. During the 52-week period ended March 25, 2008 our average daily trading volume has been approximately 110,000 shares and the intra-day sales prices per share of our common stock ranged from $0.70 to $6.85. As of March 25, 2008, our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 68% of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our cash and short-term investment position; • actual or anticipated timing and results of our clinical trials; • actual or anticipated regulatory approvals of our product candidates or of competing products; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates or our competitors’ products; • changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs or our competitors’ potential development programs; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 34 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • developments concerning collaborations; • trading volume of our common stock; • limited number of shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates of the company; • maintaining compliance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange on which we are listed; • announcement of, or expectation of, additional financing efforts; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders. In addition, the stock market in general, the Nasdaq Stock Market and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Stock Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. In April 2007, the listing of our common stock was transferred from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must maintain minimum stockholders’ equity of $2,500,000 or satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. If we are unable to meet any of the Nasdaq listing requirements in the future, the Nasdaq Stock Market staff could determine to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Securities analysts may not continue to provide or initiate coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. Securities analysts currently covering our common stock may discontinue research coverage. Additional securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. A lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly and significantly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory analysts and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies such as ours with smaller market capitalizations to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on our market price. 35 Table of Contents A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, subject to applicable volume and other resale restrictions. A total of approximately 16.6 million shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering or in connection with private offerings completed during the last two years, the majority of which are held by our officers, directors and principal stockholders, are subject to registration rights pursuant to which we have agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission registration statements covering the resale of these shares. We expect to file these registration statements during 2008, beginning shortly after the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. We may be required to pay significant amounts if we are not able to meet our obligations under our outstanding registration rights agreements. The registration rights agreement covering the approximately 8.9 million shares issued in a private offering in March 2008 and an additional approximately 4.5 million shares underlying warrants issued in connection with the offering provide that if we fail to file or cause to be declared effective the registration statement or registration statements covering the resale of these shares prior to specified deadlines, or fail to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statements (subject to limited permissible suspension periods), we will be required to pay the holders of such shares and warrants liquidated damages equal to up to 10% of the purchase price of these shares and warrants. See the discussion above under “Risks Related to our Business—Committed Equity Financing Facility regarding registration rights under that agreement. If we are required to pay significant amounts under these or future registration rights agreements, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to finance our operations. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders acting as a group, as well as Paperboy Ventures acting alone, will be able to significantly influence corporate actions. As of March 25, 2008, our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 68% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and may prevent or delay a change in control. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages to owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. As of March 25, 2008, Paperboy Ventures LLC owns approximately 23% of our common stock. Allen Andersson, the chairman of Paperboy Ventures LLC, is a member of our board of directors. Paperboy Ventures’ ownership interest and board representation may allow it to exert significant control over us and the risks described above regarding our officers, directors and principal stockholders acting as a group are equally applicable to Paperboy Ventures acting alone. We may incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations of the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have 36 Table of Contents and will continue to result in increased costs to us. The new rules could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or our board committees, or as executive officers. At present, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs related to these new rules and regulations or the timing of such costs. Because we have been a public company for a relatively short time, we have limited experience complying with public company obligations, including recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations. Compliance with these requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources, and we still may fail to comply. We are a small company with limited resources. Until April 2004, we operated as a private company, not subject to many of the requirements applicable to public companies. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This requirement first applies to this annual report on this Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting, which requirement may first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply with these requirements by applicable deadlines and to maintain compliance in future years. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control reporting in future years or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the required deadline and future year ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies for business and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies, including policies regarding expensing employee stock options, are subject to further review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted Financial Accounting Standard 123R, “Share Based Payment.” This statement, which we adopted in the first quarter of 2006, requires the recording of expense for the fair value of stock options granted. As a result, our operating expenses have increased and are likely to continue to increase. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. Because we are now required to expense stock options on a fair-value basis, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult, even if an acquisition or a management change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. Some of these provisions divide our board into three classes with only a portion of our directors subject to election at each annual meeting, allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders, require advance notification of stockholder proposals and nominations of candidates for election as directors and prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent. In addition, a supermajority vote 37 Table of Contents of stockholders is required to amend our bylaws. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President or the board of directors and that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. These provisions may prevent or delay a change in our board of directors or our management, which is appointed by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 