ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have generated significant losses in the past years and have only been profitable since the third quarter of 2011. We organized in 1998 and began operations as a public company in 1999 by offering electronic billing services to other companies. After the sale of our primary business in July 2003, we have concentrated on building our electronic payments services operations. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $54,339,799. If our security applications are not sufficient to address changing market conditions and customer concerns, we may incur significant losses and be unable to sell our services. Our use of applications designed for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations in the event of the loss of confidential card information. Adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider's security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change, our business may fail. Our success depends on our ability to develop new and enhanced services and related products that meet changing customer needs. The market for our services, however, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent new and enhanced software, service and related product introductions. In addition, the software market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. To remain successful, we must respond to new developments in hardware and semiconductor technology, operating systems, programming technology and computer capabilities. In many instances, new and enhanced services, products and technologies are in the emerging stages of development and marketing, and are subject to the risks inherent in the development and marketing of new software, services and products. We may not successfully identify new service opportunities, and develop and bring new and enhanced services and related products to market in a timely manner. Even if we do bring such services, products or technologies to market, they may not become commercially successful. Additionally, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our services and related products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new services and products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business may fail. 10 We rely on our relationship with the Automated Clearing House network and if the Federal Reserve rules were to change, our business could be adversely affected. We have a contractual relationship with Fifth Third Bank, which is an Originating Depository Financial Institution in the Automated Clearing House network. The ACH network is a nationwide batch-oriented electronic funds transfer system that provides for the interbank clearing of electronic payments for participating financial institutions. An Originating Depository Financial Institution is a participating financial institution that must abide by the provisions of the ACH Operating Rules and Guidelines. Through our relationship with this third-party provider, we are able to process payment transactions on behalf of our customers and their consumers by submitting payment instructions in a prescribed ACH format. We pay volume-based fees to the third-party provider for debit and credit transactions processed each month, and pay fees for other transactions such as returns and notices of change to bank accounts. These fees are part of our cost structure. If the Federal Reserve rules were to change to introduce restrictions or modify access to the Automated Clearing House, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are pursuing multiple contractual relationships with additional banks to serve as Originating Depository Financial Institutions. If our third-party card processing providers or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, we may have to find a new third-party processing provider, which could increase our costs. Substantially all of the card-based transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If our third-party processing provider, TriSource Solutions, LLC, or our bank sponsors, Merrick Bank or HSBC Bank, fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate their registration. Also, our contract with these third parties is subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The cancellation of our contract, termination of their registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair their registration could require us to stop providing such payment processing services if we are unable to obtain another provider or sponsor at similar costs. Additionally, changing our bank sponsor could adversely affect our relationship with our merchants if the new sponsor provides inferior service or charges higher costs. Our prepaid card revenues from the sale of services to merchants that accept MasterCard cards are dependent upon our continued MasterCard registration and financial institution sponsorship and, in some cases, continued participation in certain payment networks. In order to provide our MasterCard transaction processing services, we must be either a member of a payment network or be registered as a merchant processor of MasterCard. Registration as a merchant processor is dependent upon our being sponsored by member clearing banks of both organizations. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to be a member, either of which could prove to be difficult and/or more expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or become a member we may no longer be able to provide processing services to the affected customers which would negatively impact our revenues and earnings. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. If our merchants or ISOs incur fines or penalties that we cannot collect from them, we could end up bearing cost of fines or penalties. In order to provide our transaction processing services, we are registered with Visa and MasterCard as service providers and transaction processors for member institutions and with other networks. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards, which may be influenced by banks that own their stock and, in the case of Discover by the card issuers, and some of those banks and issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. The termination of our registrations or our status as a service provider or transaction processor, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a merchant or one of our resellers fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the card associations and networks, it could be subject to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks. If we cannot collect such amounts from the applicable merchant or one of our resellers, we could end up bearing such fines or penalties, resulting in lower earnings for us. 11 We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business. As an agent of, and third-party service provider to, our issuing banks, we are subject to indirect regulation and direct audit and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the OTS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the FRB, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. On March 23, 2010, the FRB issued a final rule implementing Title IV of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, which imposes requirements relating to disclosures, fees and expiration dates that are generally applicable to gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards. We believe that our general purpose reloadable prepaid cards, and the maintenance fees charged on our general purpose reloadable cards, are exempt from the requirements under this rule, as they fall within an express exclusion for cards which are reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate. However, this exclusion is not available if the issuer, the retailer selling the card to a consumer or the program manager, promotes, even if occasionally, the use of the card as a gift card or gift certificate. As a result, we provide retailers with instructions and policies regarding the display and promotion of our general purpose reloadable cards. It is possible, however, that despite our instructions and policies to the contrary, a retailer engaged in offering our general purpose reloadable cards to consumers could take an action with respect to one or more of the cards that would cause each similar card to be viewed as being marketed or labeled as a gift card, such as by placing our general purpose reloadable cards on a display which prominently features the availability of gift cards and does not separate or otherwise distinguish our general purpose reloadable cards from the gift cards. In such event, it is possible that such general purpose reloadable cards would lose their eligibility for such exclusion to the CARD Act and its requirements, and therefore could be deemed to be in violation of the CARD Act and the rule, which could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of our ability to offer our general purpose reloadable cards, civil liability, criminal liability, and the inability of our issuing banks to apply certain fees to our general purpose reloadable cards, each of which would likely have a material adverse impact on our revenues. As the laws applicable to our business, and those of our distributors and issuing banks, change frequently, are often unclear and may differ or conflict between jurisdictions, ensuring compliance has become more difficult and costly. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us, our issuing banks or our distributors to comply with all applicable statutes and regulations could result in fines, penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, civil liability, criminal liability, and/or limitations on our ability to operate our business, each of which could significantly harm our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our card programs are subject to strict regulation under federal law regarding anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing. Failure to comply with such laws, or abuse of our card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and other federal law impose substantial regulation of financial institutions designed to prevent use of financial services for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of our industry with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing matters could result in more aggressive enforcement of such laws or more onerous regulation, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, abuse of our prepaid card programs for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, notwithstanding our efforts to prevent such abuse through our regulatory compliance and risk management programs, could cause reputational or other harm that would have a material adverse impact on our business. On June 21, 2010, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act's anti-money laundering provisions to prepaid products and other matters related to the regulation of money services businesses. This rulemaking would create additional obligations for entities, including our distributors, engaged in the provision and sale of certain prepaid products, including our prepaid debit cards, such as the obligation for sellers of prepaid debit cards to obtain identification information from the purchaser at the point-of-sale. Compliance with these obligations may result in increased compliance costs for us, our issuing banks and our distributors, and may therefore have a negative impact on the profitability of our business. Additionally, the imposition of such obligations upon sellers of prepaid debit cards may cause some of our distributors to determine that they do not wish to continue offering our prepaid debit cards for sale or reload, which could also have a significant negative impact on our business. However, as the proposed rulemaking is subject to further comment and revision, it is difficult to determine with any certainty what obligations the final rulemaking might impose or what impact they might have on our business or that of our issuing banks or distributors. Unauthorized disclosure of cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation. We collect and store personal identifiable information about our cardholders, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers, and maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including account numbers, in order to process transactions and prevent fraud. As a result, we are required to comply with the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, various other federal and state privacy statutes and regulations, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, each of which is subject to change at any time. Compliance with these requirements is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or our distributors' failure, to comply may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our issuing banks and termination of our agreements with one or more of our issuing banks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or operations. In addition, a significant breach could result in our being prohibited from processing transactions for any of the relevant card associations or network organizations, including Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover or regional debit networks, which would also have a significant material adverse impact on our financial position and/or operations. 12 Furthermore, if our computer systems are breached by unauthorized users, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes, or failure to comply with laws governing notification of such breaches. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the relevant card associations or network organizations. We depend on Michael R. Long and Louis A. Hoch, and if these officers ceased to be active in our management, our business may not be successful. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, service and related product development and operational personnel, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Michael R. Long, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Louis A. Hoch. We signed employment agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch in February 2007 which prohibits them from competing with us for a period of two years upon termination of their employment. Our business may not be successful if, for any reason, either of these officers ceased to be active in our management. If our software fails, and we need to repair or replace it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could increase. Our software products could contain errors or "bugs" that could adversely affect the performance of services or damage a user's data. We attempt to limit our potential liability for warranty claims through technical audits and limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer agreements. However, these measures may not be effective in limiting our exposure to warranty claims. We have not experienced a significant increase in software errors or warranty claims. Despite the existence of various security precautions, our computer infrastructure may also be vulnerable to viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or third parties gaining access to our processing system. If our software fails, and we need to replace or repair it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could significantly increase. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, software, data center and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems and services of third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist acts, war, unauthorized entry, human error, and computer viruses or other defects. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in loss of revenue, loss of merchants, loss of merchant and cardholder data, harm to our business or reputation, exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities, negative publicity, additional operating and development costs, and/or diversion of technical and other resources. We perform the vast majority of disaster recovery operations ourselves, though we utilize select third parties for some aspects of recovery. To the extent we outsource our disaster recovery, we are at risk of the vendor’s unresponsiveness in the event of breakdowns in our systems. Loss of key resellers could reduce our revenue growth. Our reseller sales channel, which purchases and resells our end-to-end services to its own portfolio of merchant customers, is a strong contributor to our revenue growth. If an reseller switches to another transaction processor, shuts down, becomes insolvent, or enters the processing business themselves, we may no longer receive new merchant referrals from the reseller, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the reseller, all of which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. Risks associated with reduced levels of consumer spending could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Significant portions of our revenue and earnings are derived from fees from processing consumer ACH, prepaid, credit card and debit card transactions. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A general reduction in consumer spending in the United States or any other country where we do business could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. A further weakening in the economy could also force retailers to close resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Additionally, credit card issuers have been reducing credit limits and closing accounts, and are overall more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. 13 Fraud by merchants or others could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard, ACH and prepaid card transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While we have systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or cause us to incur other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Increases in credit card network fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings. From time to time, the card networks, including Discover, Visa and MasterCard, increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as us. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent our passing along such increased fees to our merchant customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings. We are subject to risks and write-offs resulting from fraudulent activities and losses from overdrawn cardholder accounts that could adversely impact our financial performance and results of operations. Our prepaid cards expose us to threats involving the misuse of such cards, collusion, fraud, identity theft and systemic attacks on our systems. Although a large portion of fraudulent activity is addressed through the chargeback systems and procedures maintained by the card association networks, we are often responsible for other losses due to merchant and cardholder fraud. No system or procedures established to detect and reduce the impact of fraud are entirely effective and we recorded minimal losses due to fraud in 2011. Although we actively devote efforts to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, we could nevertheless experience an increase in fraud losses over our historical experience. Our cardholders can in some circumstances incur charges in excess of the funds available in their accounts and are liable for the resulting overdrawn account balance. Although we generally decline authorization attempts for amounts that exceed the available balance in a cardholder's account, the application of the card association networks' rules and regulations, the timing of the settlement of transactions and the assessment of subscription, maintenance or other fees can, among other things, result in overdrawn card accounts. As of December 31, 2011, our cardholders' overdrawn account balances totaled less than $250. Although we maintain reserves for fraud and other losses, our exposure to these types of risks may exceed our reserve levels for a variety of reasons, including our failure to predict the actual recovery rate, failure to effectively manage risk and failure to prevent fraud. Accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we incur losses resulting from overdrawn cardholder accounts and fraudulent activity that exceed our designated reserves or if we determine that it is necessary to increase our reserves substantially in order to address any increased recovery risk. Our business strategy includes identifying businesses and assets to acquire, and if we cannot integrate acquisitions into our company successfully, we may have limited growth. Our success partially depends upon our ability to identify and acquire undervalued businesses and merchant portfolios within our industry. Although we believe that there are companies and portfolios available for potential acquisition that might offer attractive business opportunities, we may not be able to make any acquisitions, and if we do make acquisitions, they may not be profitable. As a result, our business may not grow or sustain profitability. If we do not manage our growth or sustain profitability. We may experience a period of rapid growth that could place a significant strain on our resources. In order to manage our growth successfully, we will have to continue to improve our operational, management and financial systems and expand our work force. A significant increase in our customer base may necessitate the hiring of a significant number of additional personnel, qualified candidates for which, at the time needed, may be in short supply. In addition, the expansion and adaptation of our computer and administrative infrastructure will require substantial operational, management and financial resources. Although we believe that our current infrastructure is adequate to meet the needs of our customers in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to expand and adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, hire needed personnel, expand and adapt our computer infrastructure and improve our operational, management, and financial systems and controls, we may not sustain profitability. 14 If we do not manage our credit risks related to our merchant accounts, we may incur significant losses. We rely on the Federal Reserve's Automated Clearing House system for electronic fund transfers and the Visa and MasterCard associations for settlement of payments by credit or debit card on behalf of our merchant customers. In our use of these established payment clearance systems, we generally bear the credit risks arising from returned transactions caused by insufficient funds, stop payment orders, closed accounts, frozen accounts, unauthorized use, disputes, customer charge backs, theft or fraud. Consequently, we assume the credit risk of merchant disputes, fraud, insolvency or bankruptcy in the event we attempt to recover funds related to such transactions from our customers. We have not experienced a significant increase in the rate of returned transactions or incurred any losses with respect to such transactions. We utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage and limit credit risks, but if these actions are not successful in managing such risks, we may incur significant losses. Current economic conditions could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations and performance depend to some degree on economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the regions in which we operate, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. Any new or changes made to laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards affecting our business may require significant development efforts or have an unfavorable impact to our financial results. For example, in the United States, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) on July 21, 2010, which is intended to make significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. The law regulates the fees charged or received by issuers for processing debit transactions and the transaction routing options available to merchants. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted the final rule implementing the interchange fee and routing provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act, when implemented in September of 2011, caused interchange fees to be lowered on large bank issued debit cards. The lowered interchange had a mild negative impact on our revenues, but increased our earnings due to the fact that we were able to keep our prices constant with our merchants. If our competitors start to pass the extra margin into savings to their merchants, we may be forced to follow their actions and become exposed to lower earnings on the debit card transactions for large banks. Our prepaid cards, while they process some transactions on debit networks, are currently exempt from the Dodd-Frank Act. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The electronic commerce market is relatively new and if it does not grow, we may not be able to sell sufficient services to make our business viable. The electronic commerce market is a relatively new and growing service industry. If the electronic commerce market fails to grow or grows slower than anticipated, or if we, despite an investment of significant resources, are unable to adapt to meet changing customer requirements or technological changes in this emerging market, or if our services and related products do not maintain a proportionate degree of acceptance in this growing market, our business may not grow and could even fail. Additionally, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the electronic commerce market in general, and our customer base and revenues, in particular. Similar to the emergence of the credit card and automatic teller machine industries, we and other organizations serving the electronic commerce market must educate users that electronic transactions use encryption technology and other electronic security measures that make electronic transactions more secure than paper-based transactions. Changes in regulation of electronic commerce and related financial services industries could increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. We believe that we are not required to be licensed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, or other federal or state agencies that regulate or monitor banks or other types of providers of electronic commerce services. It is possible that a federal or state agency will attempt to regulate providers of electronic commerce services, which could impede our ability to do business in the regulator's jurisdiction. Our business has also been affected by anti-terrorism legislation, such as the USA PATRIOT Act. Banking related provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act have been implemented as additions to the banking rules regarding monetary instrument sales record keeping requirements and tracking of cash movements. In our capacity as an agent for University National Bank, the issuing bank for our prepaid card programs, we are required to comply with these rules. We are also required to implement a Customer Identification Program and establish an Anti-Money Laundering program and to report any suspected money laundering to the appropriate agencies. Our compliance with such regulations increases our responsibilities and costs associated with the administration of our debit card programs. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to commercial transactions, such as the Uniform Commercial Code, and may be subject to the electronic funds transfer rules embodied in Regulation E, promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board. Given the expansion of the electronic commerce market, the Federal Reserve Board might revise Regulation E or adopt new rules for electronic funds transfer affecting users other than consumers. Because of growth in the electronic commerce market, Congress has held hearings on whether to regulate providers of services and transactions in the electronic commerce market. It is possible that Congress or individual states could enact laws regulating the electronic commerce market. If enacted, such laws, rules and regulations could be imposed on our business and industry and could increase our costs or limit our business opportunities. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, we could lose market share and our costs could increase. Portions of the electronic commerce market are becoming increasingly competitive. We expect to face growing competition in all areas of the electronic payment processing market. New companies could emerge and compete for merchants of all sizes. We expect competition to increase from both established and emerging companies and that such increased competition could lower our market share and increase our costs. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or could expand to compete directly against us in any or all of our target markets. Accordingly, it is possible that current or potential competitors could rapidly acquire market share. We may not be able to compete against current or future competitors successfully. Additionally, competitive pressures may increase our costs, which could lower our earnings, if any. 16 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at a price higher than what you paid. The market for our common stock is highly volatile. In 2011, our closing stock price fluctuated between $0.02 and $0.13. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or us, changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors' products and services, changes in product mix, or changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates. Existing stockholders may experience significant dilution from the sale of securities pursuant to our Investment Agreement with Dutchess. Should we exercise the Investment Agreement with Dutchess, the sale of shares pursuant to that Agreement may have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. As a result, our net income per share could decrease in future periods and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is at the time we exercise our put option, the more shares we will have to issue to Dutchess to draw down on the full equity line with Dutchess. If our stock price decreases, then our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. Dutchess will pay less than the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock to be issued under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess will be purchased at a 5% discount to the lowest closing best bid price during the five days immediately following our notice to Dutchess of our election to exercise our put right. Dutchess has a financial incentive to sell our common stock immediately upon receiving the shares to realize the profit between the discounted price and the market price. If Dutchess sells our shares, the price of our stock could decrease. If our stock price decreases, Dutchess may have a further incentive to sell the shares of our common stock that it holds. The discounted sales under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess could cause the price of our common stock to decline. “Penny stock” rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our shares. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. We have adopted certain measures that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Such classification of the Board of Directors expands the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and may tend to discourage a proxy contest or other takeover bid for our company. We have also instituted a stockholders rights plan that serves to help prevent a hostile takeover of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 17 