ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors in this section describe the material risks to our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and should be considered carefully. In addition, these factors constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements (as defined in such act) made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investors should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not historical facts and that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as “will likely result,” 220;are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimated,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes” and “projects”) may be forward-looking and may involve estimates and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our results of operations or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. - 11 - Risks Related To Our Business The metals industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the pricing and availability of magnesium and in levels of customer demand have historically been severe, and future changes and/or fluctuations could cause us to experience lower sales volumes and revenues, which would negatively impact our profit margins. The metals industry is highly cyclical. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions, levels of industry capacity and availability of usable raw materials. The overall levels of demand for our magnesium and magnesium-based products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions worldwide which then impact the level of production in the PRC. For example, many of the principal uses of magnesium and magnesium-related products are for the production of structural metal, steel and aluminum manufacturing, production of alloys used in aircraft and automobile parts, the manufacture of electronic equipment such as computers, cameras, and cellular phones and the use of magnesium powder in flares, flashes and pyrotechnics. The market for these products are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, including the availability of affordable energy sources, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and construction demand. These cyclical shifts in our customers’ industries tend to result in significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for our products. As a result, in periods of recession, such as the one we are currently experiencing, or low economic growth, metals companies, including ours, have generally tended to under-perform compared to other industries. We generally have high fixed costs, so changes in industry demand that impact our production volume also can significantly impact our profit margins and our overall financial condition. Economic downturns in the worldwide economy or a prolonged decline in demand in our Magnesium segment has had a negative impact on our operations and a continuation or further deterioration of current economic conditions could ha ve a negative impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Changes in the prices of magnesium and, magnesium-related products, zinc and zinc-related products will have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of magnesium and magnesium-based products. Changes in the market price of magnesium and zinc impact the selling prices of our products, and therefore our profitability is significantly affected by decreased magnesium prices and to a lesser extent by decreased zinc prices. Market prices of magnesium and zinc are dependent upon supply and demand and a variety of factors over which we have little or no control, including: • world economic conditions; • availability and relative pricing of metal substitutes; • labor costs; • energy prices; • environmental laws and regulations; • weather; and • import and export restrictions. Declines in the price of magnesium, and to a lesser extent a decrease in zinc prices, have had a negative impact on our operations since commencing in September 2008, and further or future declines could have a negative impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. Market conditions beyond our control determine the prices for our products, and the price for any one or more of our products may fall below our production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses. Furthermore, the decline in the price of zinc and zinc related products resulted in us delaying completion of construction of our planned zinc ore mining and production facility, our planned aluminum wire recycling facility and our planned zinc concentrate distribution business. Consequently, we continue to evaluate our strategic alternatives for th ese operations including the partial or full sale of our interest in these businesses, the launch of operations in fiscal 2011, or seeking potential joint venture partners to operate the businesses. Market prices for magnesium may decrease even further, and therefore our operating results may be significantly harmed. - 12 - If we fail to implement our expansion plans, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. An important part of our strategy is to grow our business by acquiring additional production facilities for magnesium and magnesium related products by consolidating our Magnesium segment holdings as well as acquire additional operations owned or controlled by Mr. Huang. In addition, the operation of our commodity trading business may require a significant cash investment to finance purchases of commodities we intend to sell. Although we acquired Ruiming Magnesium in July 2010 for approximately $6.5 million in cash and our stock and have financed our trading business with cash on hand, we will need additional financing to implement our expansion strategy to acquire additional magnesium production facilities and finance the operations of our commodity trading business. We may not have access to the funding required for these pl ans on acceptable terms. Our expansion plans may also suffer significant delays as a result of a variety of factors, such as legal and regulatory requirements, either of which could prevent us from completing our plans as currently expected. Our expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations. In addition, even if we can implement our strategy, expansion in the magnesium and industrial commodities market, increased sales to various industries, including the automobile industry may not materialize to the extent we expect, or at all, resulting in unutilized magnesium production capacity and unrecoverable expenses and investments in our trading business. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy, including for any of the above reasons, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may, in addition, decide to alter or discontinue certain a spects of our business strategy at any time. Fluctuations in the cost or availability of electricity, coke, coal and/or natural gas would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins and limiting our cash flows from operations. Energy is one of our most significant costs in our Magnesium segment. All of our magnesium production facilities utilize coke gas as energy (our Baotou Changxin Magnesium facility upgraded its coal burning facility to primarily utilize more energy efficient coke waste gas in December, 2010). Energy prices, particularly for coal and coke gas, are volatile. While we have a fixed price supply agreement for a specified quantity of waste gas for our Golden Magnesium facility which expires in August 2027, fluctuations in price impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and the first quarter of fiscal 2011 the Chinese authorities mandated a significant reduction of energy usage and instituted “rolling brownouts” in an effort to meet the targets for energy consumption and emissions set by the 11th Five Year Plan (2006-2010). This policy resulted in a one month shut down of production at our Golden Magnesium facility because our electrical supply was interrupted. In addition, we have been unable to restart production at Baotou Changxin Magnesium because our coke gas supplier temporarily ceased production due to a lack of demand for coke. These shut downs will reduce our production at Golden Magnesium and Baotou Changxin Magnesium, reducing our net sales and potentially impacting our ability to deliver products to our customers in the first qu arter of fiscal 2011. We believe that the current energy restrictions will be eliminated with the implementation of the PRC’s 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015) on January 1, 2011, although there are no assurances that additional energy use restrictions may be imposed in the future. Any continuation of these restrictions will adversely impact our results of operations in future periods. We are also unable to predict at this time whether additional energy policies will be adopted by the Chinese government that could adversely impact our operations in future periods. In the event of further interruptions in the supply of electricity or coke gas to our magnesium facilities, production at our manufacturing facilities would have to be shut down. In addition, we do not maintain sources of secondary power at our facilities, and therefore any prolonged interruptions in the supply of energy to our facilities could result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and waste of production in progress. If we were to lose order volumes from any of our major customers, our sales could decline significantly and our cash flows may be reduced. In fiscal 2010, our five largest customers (exclusive of related parties) in our Magnesium segment were responsible for approximately 53% of our total revenues in this segment and approximately 24% of our total consolidated revenues. These customers purchase products from us on a spot or short term contract basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products. A loss of order volumes from any major customer, including a related party, or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. - 13 - We have a dispute with the noncontrolling shareholders of Pan Asia Magnesium that resulted in our establishment of a reserve for loss and the possibility of litigation and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As described later in this report, we have a dispute with the noncontrolling shareholders of Pan Asia Magnesium and its Chairman of the Board of Directors, Haixin Zhao that resulted in our establishment of a $7.4 million reserve for loss in the 2009 transition period and our filing of an Application for Arbitration with the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission seeking to terminate our joint venture agreement in an effort to dissolve this company. We withdrew the application for the arbitration on December 21, 2010 in conjunction with our discussions with a third party to sell our 51% ownership in Pan Asia Magnesium. See Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Although we are engaged in discussions to sell our interest in Pan Asia Magnesium to a third party, the potential litigation ensuing f rom this dispute may be both time consuming and expensive. We evaluated this claim to assess the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential loss. Based on this assessment and estimate, we established a reserve of $7.4 million in the 2009 transition period and disclosed the relevant claim, as appropriate in our financial statements. This assessment and estimate is based on the information available to management as of the date of this report and involves a significant amount of management judgment. As a result, the actual outcome or loss may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessment and estimate. Our failure to successfully prosecute or settle this claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The value of the equity securities we accept as compensation is subject to adjustment which could result in losses to us in future periods. In our Consulting segment, historically we have accepted equity securities of our clients as compensation for services. These securities are reflected on our balance sheet as “investment in marketable securities available for sale”. At the end of each period, we evaluate the carrying value of the marketable securities for a decrease in value. We evaluate the company underlying these marketable securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the amortized cost basis is other than temporary. If the decline in fair value is judged to be “other- than- temporary”, the cost basis of the individual security is shall be written down to fair value as a new cost basis and the amount of the write-down is charged to earnings. At September 30, 2010 we recognized an “other-than-temporary” impairme nt of $1.3 million and realized gain on sale of marketable securities of $2.1 and at September 30, 2009 a realized loss on other-than-temporary impairment of $7.5 million related to these marketable securities. In the future, should we identify additional impairments, this would adversely affect our operating results for the corresponding periods in that we would be required to reduce the carrying value of these investments. In addition, if we are unable to liquidate these securities, we will be required to write off the investments which would adversely affect our financial position. Our management may be unable to effectively integrate our acquisitions and to manage our growth and we may be unable to fully realize any anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. We are subject to various risks associated with our growth strategy, including the risk that we will be unable to identify and recruit suitable acquisition candidates in the future or to integrate and manage the acquired companies we have acquired. We face particular challenges in that our acquisition strategy is based on companies located in and operating within the PRC. Acquired companies’ histories, the geographical location, business models and business cultures will be different from ours in many respects. Furthermore, we recently completed the evaluation of Ufida NC, an enterprise-wide financial software system that we initially plan to roll out beginning in our second quarter of fiscal 2011 to enhance our management and reporting capabilities and standardize the process and access to financial reports in a timely manner in our magnesium segment. Even if we are successful in implementing the Ufida NC software and identifying and closing acquisitions of companies, our directors and executive management will face significant challenges in their efforts to integrate the business of our current subsidiaries and the acquired companies or assets and to effectively manage our continued growth. Each of our acquisitions, including any future acquisitions, will be subject to a number of challenges, including: • the diversion of management time and resources and the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • unexpected costs and time associated with upgrading both the internal accounting systems as well as educating each of their staff as to the proper methods of collecting and recording financial data; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; • the difficulty of retaining key alliances on attractive terms with partners and suppliers; and • the difficulty of retaining and recruiting key personnel and maintaining employee morale. - 14 - There can be no assurance that our efforts to integrate the operations of any acquired assets or companies will be successful, that we can manage our growth or that the anticipated benefits of our past or any future these proposed acquisitions will be fully realized. We need additional financing to fund acquisitions and our operations which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. Additional capital raising efforts in future periods may be dilutive to our then current shareholders or result in increased interest expense in future periods. In July 2010, we used $1.7 million in cash, plus stock and other assets of $4.8 million to acquire an 80% interest in Ruiming Magnesium. We need to raise additional capital to carry out our plans to acquire additional production facilities for magnesium and magnesium related products by consolidating our Magnesium segment holdings as well as acquire additional operations owned or controlled by Mr. Huang. Also, we may need to raise additional working capital to fund our commodity trading business. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors, including our operations, the financial condition of an acquisition target and its need for capital, our ability to finance our purchases of commodities with financial instruments provided by buyers, grow revenues from other sources, and our ability to manage the growth of our busine ss and our ability to control our expenses. Also, if we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this will result in increased interest expense. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our company held by existing shareholders will be reduced and those shareholders may experience significant dilution. As we will generally not be required to obtain the consent of our shareholders before entering into acquisition transactions, shareholders are dependent upon the judgment of our management in determining the number of, and characteristics of, stock issued as consideration in an acquisition. In addition, new securities may contain certain rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the working capital as needed in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all, as the current capital markets have been adversely affected by the seve re liquidity crisis. If we do not raise capital as needed, we will be unable to operate our business or fully implement our acquisition expansion strategy. We are dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational expertise of key personnel of our subsidiaries in the PRC who perform key functions in the operation of our business as well as our U.S. based management team. We do not exercise any substantive day to day supervision over the activities of key members of our the PRC based management team which includes Yuwei Huang, Jingdong Chen, and Chen Chi. The loss of one or more of these key employees or our chief executive officer, Dr. Wang could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have had difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies have in some cases, been resistant to the adoption of Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, cash management and other internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we have had difficulty with compliance by our management at our subsidiaries and in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. See “Part II — Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.” As a result of these factors, we have experienced difficulties with our subsidiaries in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet western sta ndards. In addition, we may experience these difficulties with any of our subsidiaries and our future acquisitions. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience continued difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in additional restatements of our financial statements in future periods. - 15 - If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Our management has determined that as of September 30, 2010, we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework as a result of identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to (i) a lack of an integrated financial accounting system; (ii) a lack of internal control over financial reporting related to our consolidated financial results; and (iii) a lack of qualified accounting personnel who have sufficient knowledge in dealing with the complex U.S. GAAP accounting and financial issues in our cross border operations. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financi al reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses and our remediation efforts and plans, see “Part II — Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.” If the result of our remediation of the identified material weaknesses is not successful, or if additional material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, and we could be required to further implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and potentially lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation.< /div> Certain agreements to which we are a party and which are material to our operations lack various legal protections which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the United States. Our subsidiaries include companies organized under the laws of the PRC and all of their business and operations are conducted in the PRC. We are a party to certain contracts related to our operations in the PRC. While these contracts contain the basic business terms of the agreements between the parties, these contracts do not contain certain clauses which are customarily contained in similar contracts prepared in the U.S., such as representations and warranties of the parties, confidentiality and non-compete clauses, provisions outlining events of defaults, and termination and jurisdictional clauses. Because our contracts in the PRC omit these customary clauses, notwithstanding the differences in PRC Chinese and U.S. laws, we may not have the same legal protections as we would if t he contracts contained these additional clauses. Contractual and other disputes which may arise from this lack of legal protection and our dispute with the minority shareholders of Pan Asia Magnesium and collection efforts to recover uncollected amounts could divert management’s time from the operation of our business, require us to expend funds attempting to settle disputes, limit the time our management would otherwise devote to the operation of our business, and, on a collective basis, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intercompany loans may be subject to PRC regulations. We currently have several inter-company loans between our PRC subsidiaries and PRC based client companies totaling $7.0 million and we may continue to enter into inter-company and client based financing arrangements to meet our internal capital needs and those of our client companies. PRC laws generally do not permit companies that do not possess a financial service business license to extend loans directly to other companies, including affiliates, without proceeding through a financial agency. The enforcement of these restrictions remains unpredictable, and government authorities may declare these loans void, require the forfeiture of any interest paid and levy fines or other penalties upon the parties involved, among other remedies. From time to time we engage in related party transactions. There are no assurances that these transactions are fair to our company. From time to time our subsidiaries enter into transactions with related parties which include purchases from or sales to a related party, advancing related parties significant sums as prepayments for future goods or services and working capital and the payment of fees for consulting services, among other transactions. In December 2009 we adopted a related person transaction policy which will require the pre-approval of the board of directors pre-approval or ratification of transactions between us or one or more of our subsidiaries and any related person involving an amount in excess of $120,000. Consistent with this policy, the independent members of our Board of Directors approved our purchase of an 80% interest in Ruiming Magnesium from entities owned or controlled by Yuwei Huang, our Executive Vice President – Magnesium and a di rector of our company. Notwithstanding this policy, we cannot assure you that in every instance the terms of the transactions with related parties are on terms as fair as we might receive from or extend to third parties. - 16 - Yuwei Huang, our Executive Vice President – Magnesium, an officer of several of our magnesium subsidiaries and a director of our company and his daughter Lifei Huang is also an owner and executive officer of several companies which directly compete with our magnesium business. Mr. Yuwei Huang who serves as our Executive Vice President – Magnesium, an executive officer of several of our Magnesium segment subsidiaries and a director of our company and his daughter Lifei Huang who is the General Manager of International Magnesium Trading are also the principal owners and executive officers the Chairman of a competitor of ours, YiWei Magnesium. YiWei Magnesium, a minority owner of two of our Magnesium segment subsidiaries, owns interests in several other magnesium factories, a magnesium alloy factory and a magnesium powder desulphurization reagent factory, all located in the PRC. In addition, we have recently signed a non-binding letter of intent to acquire certain facilities owned by YiWei Magnesium. Due to Mr. Huang and Ms. Huang’s interest in our competitors and Mr. Huang’s management pos ition as an officer and director of our company, there are certain inherent conflicts of interest and there can be no assurances that our business and operations will not be adversely impacted as a result of these conflicts. Our business will suffer if we lose our land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in the PRC and all land ownership is held by the government of the PRC, its agencies, and collectives. In the case of land used for business purposes, land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 50 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be granted upon approval by the land administrative authorities of the PRC (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land granting fee, the entry into a land use agreement with a competent governmental authority and certain other ministerial procedures. We have entered into agreements to acquire land use rights for some of our occupied properties and other agreements to use the land and the buildings which house our magnesium operations from parties that we reasonably believe have proper land use rights . We cannot give, however, any assurance that our land use rights will be renewed or that the parties we have entered into agreements with will maintain their land use rights. In addition, we may not have followed all procedures required to obtain the land use certificate for the land use rights we agreed to purchase or paid all required fees. If the Chinese administrative authorities determine that we have not fully complied with all procedures and requirements needed to hold a land use certificate for any property which we occupy, we may be forced by the Chinese administrative authorities to retroactively comply with such procedures and requirements, which may be burdensome and require us to make payments, or such Chinese administrative authorities may invalidate or revoke our land use certificate entirely. If the land use right certificates needed for our operations are determined by the government of the PRC to be invalid or if they are not renewed, or if we are unable to renew the lease for our fac ilities when they expire, we may lose production facilities or employee accommodations that would be difficult or even impossible to replace. Should we have to relocate, our workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and our business operations will be disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause us to lose sales and/or increase its costs of production, which would negatively impact our financial results. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Investment Company Act of 1940 will limit the value of securities we can accept as payment for our business consulting services which may limit our future revenues. We have historically accepted securities as payment for our services and will likely continue to do so in the future, but only to the extent that it does not cause us to become classified as an investment company under the Investment Company Act 1940. To the extent that we are required to reduce the amount of securities we accept as payment for our consulting services to avoid becoming an investment company, our future revenues from our business consulting services may substantially decline if our clients cannot pay our fees in cash. A reduction in the amount of our consulting fees will materially adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Any future change in our fee structure for our consulting services could also severely limit our ability to attract business consulting clients in the future. - 17 - The acquisition of new businesses is costly and such acquisitions may not enhance our financial condition. A significant element of our growth strategy is to acquire controlling interests in companies that operate in the PRC and that offer services, products, technologies, industry specializations or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. The process to undertake a potential acquisition is time-consuming and costly. We expect to expend significant resources to undertake business, financial and legal due diligence on our potential acquisition targets and there is no guarantee that we will acquire the company after completing due diligence. The process of identifying and consummating an acquisition could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring additional companies, there are no as surances that the operations of these businesses will enhance our future financial condition. To the extent that a business we acquire does not meet the performance criteria used to establish a purchase price, some or all of the goodwill related to that acquisition or a write down of assets acquired could be charged against our future earnings, if any. The operations of our basic materials segment will be subject to risks and hazards inherent in the mining industry. Our Basic Materials segment, if and when mining operations commence, will be engaged in the mining and processing of zinc ore. These operations will be subject to risks and hazards inherent in the mining industry, including, but not limited to, ground fall, flooding, environmental hazards and the discharge of toxic chemicals, explosions and other accidents, unanticipated variations in grade and other geological problems, water conditions, surface or underground conditions, metallurgical and other processing problems, mechanical equipment performance problems, the lack of availability of materials and equipment, the occurrence of accidents, labor force disruptions, force majeure factors, unanticipated transportation costs, and weather conditions. Any of these risks could result in work stoppages, delays in production, the development of properties, production commencement dates and production quantities, increased production costs and rates, damage to or destruction of mines and other production facilities, injury or loss of life, damage to property, environmental damage, and possible legal liability for such damages. As of the date of this report, we have not established a reserve on this property. Furthermore, we are evaluating our strategic alternatives related to this business including the partial or full sale of our interest, the launch of operations in fiscal 2010 or seeking a potential joint venture partner to operate this business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China We may be unable to enforce our rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in China. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our investment agreements with the minority shareholders and management of our subsidiaries, arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as fore ign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered a foreign invested enterprise under Chinese laws, and as a result, we must comply with Chinese laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find us to be in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: levying fines; revoking our business and other licenses; requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion and variation, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. th e PRC’s regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks which may affect our ability to achieve our stated business objectives. Also, if we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our agreements or otherwise with the shareholder of Pan Asia Magnesium or the shareholders of our other subsidiaries, our ability to control their operations could be limited. Any significant limitation on our ability to control the operations of our subsidiaries could result in a loss of our investment which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 18 - We are subject to environmental and safety regulations, which may increase our compliance costs and reduce our overall profitability. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the PRC. In addition, there are governmental initiatives under consideration in an effort to, among other things, moderate the environmental impact of magnesium production. These initiatives include, but are not limited to national standards for environmental quality and discharge of pollutants in the PRC, see “Item 1. Business – Government Regulation – Environment” and potential forced shutdown of inefficient or small producers with capacity of less than 15,000 tons annually. We may incur substantial costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements that could reduce our overall profitability. The capital requirements and other expenditures that may be necessary to comply with environmental requ irements could increase and become a significant expense linked to the conduct of our business. Substantially all of our assets and operations are located in the PRC and are subject to changes resulting from the political and economic policies of the Chinese government. Our business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of the PRC. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a socialist market economy and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to moderate the environmental impact of manufacturing businesses, control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, the imposition of additiona l restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation or increases of such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the current Chinese policies of economic reform will continue. Because of this uncertainty, there are significant economic risks associated with doing business in China. Although the majority of productive assets in the PRC are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourages private economic activity. In keeping with these economic reform policies, the PRC has been openly promoting business development in order to bring more business into the PRC. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffective, there are no assurances that: • the Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; • the economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; • economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; or • business operations in the PRC will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. We cannot assure you that we will be able to capitalize on these economic reforms, assuming the reforms continue. Because our business model is dependent upon the continued economic reform and growth in the PRC, any change in Chinese government policy could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to implement our business model. The PRC’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors and has recently been slowing. Even if the Chinese government continues its policies of economic reform, there are no assurances that economic growth in that country will continue or that we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities in a fashion that will provide financial benefit to us. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which our Chinese subsidiaries must conduct our business activities. The PRC only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in the PRC or particular regions of the PRC, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in our Chinese subsidiaries. - 19 - We face risks related to natural disasters and health epidemics in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics in China. For example, in May 2008, Sichuan Province suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. In addition, in the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, also commonly referred to as “swine flu,” occurred in Mexico and has spread to other countries. Cases of swine flu have been reported in Hong Kong and mainland China. The Chinese government, and certain regional governments within the PRC, have enacted regulations to address the H1N1 virus, which may have an effect on our business. If the ou tbreak of swine flu were to become widespread in China or increase in severity, it could have an adverse effect on economic activity in China, and could require the temporary closure of our production facilities or offices. Such events could severely disrupt our business operations and harm our results of operations. Any future natural disasters or health epidemics in the PRC could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We may not have ready access to cash on deposit in banks in the PRC. Because a substantial portion of our revenues are in the form of Renminbi (RMB), the main currency used in the PRC, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to go vernment approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. At September 30, 2010 our PRC subsidiaries had approximately $9.7 million on deposit in banks in the PRC, which represented approximately 67% of our cash. We cannot be certain that we could have ready access to that cash should we wish to transfer it to bank accounts outside the PRC nor can we be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 21% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 31, 2010. Recently, the People’s Bank of China has decided to proceed further with reform of the RMB exchange regime and to enhance the RMB exchange rate flexibility. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more f lexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant adjustment of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in foreign currency terms. More specifically, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Consequently, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar could materially adversely affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar ter ms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. - 20 - Risks Related to Our Common Stock Delisting of our securities from trading by NASDAQ could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. In order for us to maintain the listing of our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our shares must maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 as set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). If the bid price of our shares trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, then the bid price of our shares must trade at $1.00 or more for 10 consecutive trading days during a 180-day grace period to regain compliance with the rule. On December 21, 2010 our shares closed at $1.20 per share. If our shares were to be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, then our shares would be traded on the over-the-counter market. Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. The market price for shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price for shares of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the last few years. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the future market price of our shares of common stock include: • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • changes in general economic conditions or conditions in our industry generally; • changes in conditions in the financial markets; • announcements of significant acquisitions or contracts by us or our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by our shareholders; • changes in market prices for our products or for our raw materials; and • changes in stock market analyst research and recommendations regarding the shares of our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq and the market for companies with PRC based operations in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and resul ts of operations. As a result of these and other factors, you may be unable to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for such shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 