Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings made with the SEC. Although we believe that our expectations are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Based upon changing conditions, any one or more of these events described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected or intended may not occur. All prior and subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to our Company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General We were founded in July 1998 and incorporated in the State of Nevada. Our primary operations consist of functioning as a processor of electronic payments for other companies. We provide integrated electronic payment processing services to merchants and businesses, including all types of Automated Clearinghouse processing and credit and debit card-based processing services. The Automated Clearinghouse Network is a nationwide electronic funds transfer system that is regulated by the Federal Reserve and provides for the clearing of electronic payments between participating financial institutions. Our Automated Clearinghouse processing services enable merchants or businesses to both disburse or collect funds electronically using e-checks to transfer funds instead of traditional paper checks. An e-check is an electronic debit to a bank checking account that is initiated at the point-of-sale, on the Internet, over the telephone or via a bill payment sent through the mail and is processed using the Automated Clearinghouse network. Our card-based processing services enable merchants to process both traditional card-present, or "swipe," transactions, as well as card-not-present transactions. A traditional card-present transaction occurs whenever a cardholder physically presents a credit or debit card to a merchant at the point-of-sale. A card-not-present transaction occurs whenever the customer does not physically present a payment card at the point-of-sale and may occur over the Internet, mail, fax or telephone. Our electronic payment processing may take place in a variety of forms and situations. For example, our capabilities allow merchants to convert a paper check to an e-check or receive card authorization at the point-of-sale, have their customer service representatives take e-check or card payments from their consumers by telephone, and enable their consumers to make e-check or card payments directly through the use of a web site or by calling an Interact ive Voice Response telephone system. We also operate an online payment processing service for consumers under the domain name www.billx.com through which consumers can pay anyone. We generate revenues by charging fees for the electronic processing of payment transactions and related services. We charge certain merchants for these processing services at a bundled rate based on a percentage of the dollar amount of each transaction and, in some instances, additional fees are charged for each transaction. We charge other merchant customers a flat fee per transaction, and may also charge miscellaneous fees to our customers, including fees for returns, monthly minimums, and other miscellaneous services. We charge consumers that use our billx.com online payment service a flat monthly fee that allows them to make a certain number of payments in a month. We also charge these consumers an additional fee for each payment that exceeds the allowed number of payments in a given month. We operate solely in the United States as a single operating segment. Industry Background The use of non-paper based forms of payment by consumers in the United States, such as credit and debit cards, has steadily increased over the past several years. According to the 2007 Federal Reserve Payments Study, the number of electronic payment transactions totaled 62.7 billion in 2006 while the number of checks paid totaled 30.6 billion. Electronic payments now exceed two-thirds of all non-cash payments and are being used more frequently in transactions where paper checks or cash were used in the past. The growth of electronic commerce has made the acceptance of card-based and other electronic forms of payment a necessity for businesses, both large and small, in order to remain competitive. We believe that the electronic payment processing industry will continue to benefit from the following trends: Favorable Demographics As consumers age, we expect that they will continue to use the payment technology to which they have grown accustomed. More consumers are beginning to use card-based and other electronic payment methods for purchases at an earlier age. As consumers who have witnessed the wide adoption of card products, technology, and the Internet comprise a greater percentage of the population and increasingly enter the work force, we expect that purchases using electronic payment methods will comprise an increasing percentage of total consumer spending. Because of the Internet’s increasing adoption rate, businesses have a growing opportunity to conduct commerce with their consumers and business partners over the Internet. Increased Electronic Payment Acceptance by Small Businesses Small businesses are a vital component of the U.S. economy and are expected to contribute to the increased use of electronic payment methods. The lower costs associated with electronic payment methods are making these services more affordable to a larger segment of the small business market. In addition, we believe these businesses are experiencing increased pressure to accept electronic payment methods in order to remain competitive and to meet consumer expectations. As a result, many of these small businesses are seeking to provide customers with the ability to pay for merchandise and services using electronic payment methods, including those in industries that have historically accepted cash and checks as the only forms of payment for their merchandise and services. 3 Growth in Online Transactions Market researchers expect dramatic growth in card-not-present transactions due to the rapid growth of the Internet and electronic commerce. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, estimated retail e-commerce sales for 2007 were $136.4 billion, an increase of 19% from $114.6 billion in 2006. The prevalence of the Internet makes having an online presence a basic consideration for those operating a business today. To remain competitive, many companies are seeking to leverage the Internet to provide operational efficiencies, create new revenue opportunities and maximize the longevity and profitability of their customer relationships. Products and Services Our service offerings are supported by our systems infrastructure that integrates certain proprietary components with processing systems outsourced to third-party providers to offer our customers a flexible and secure payment process. We utilize a secure sockets layer so that connections and information are secure from outside inspection. We also use 128-bit encryption for all electronic transactions that we process to make information unreadable as it passes over the Internet. Our systems infrastructure allows us to work with our customers to build a customized electronic payment service offering tailored to their specific needs. We have designed and implemented our integrated payment systems to function as gateways between our customers and our third-party processing providers. Our systems provide for interfaces with our customers through which payment data is captured electronically and transferred through the connections we have with our processing provide rs. Our systems also provide a data warehousing capability so that all of a customer's payment data can be stored in one place to facilitate efficient data retrieval and analysis. We outsource our Automated Clearinghouse transaction processing and card-based transaction processing to third-party providers. Our card-based processing system is capable of connecting with all of the major card-based processors in the United States. The components of our service offering include all forms of Automated Clearinghouse transaction processing, such as Re-presented Check, which is a consumer non-sufficient funds check that is re-presented for payment electronically rather than through the paper check collection system, and Accounts Receivable Check Conversion, which is a consumer paper check payment that is converted into an e-check. Our customers can initiate Automated Clearinghouse transactions directly using an online terminal accessible through a web site or we can initiate Automated Clearinghouse transactions on their behalf. Our service offering also includes merchant account services for the processing of card-based transactions through the VISA and MasterCard networks, including online terminal services accessed through a web site or retail services accessed via a physical terminal. We offer a proprietary web-based customer service application that combines both Automated Clearinghouse and card processing capabilities and allows companies to process one-time and recurring payments via e-checks or credit cards at the request of their consumers. In addition, we offer an Interactive Voice Response telephone system to companies that accept payments directly from consumers over the telephone using e-checks or credit cards. In addition to these acquiring services, we are also aggressively developing and marketing prepaid gift cards and personal spending debit cards. In December 2005, we signed an agreement with MetaPayments Systems, a division of MetaBank, a federally chartered bank, to be our issuing bank for select prepaid debit card programs running on the various card associations and debit networks. We also entered into an agreement in February 2006 with a third-party provider to provide us with backend card processing services for our debit card processing platform. We are working with MetaPayments to develop a series of competitive celebrity, gift, and personal spending card programs. In August 2007, we officially launched our Natalie Gulbis Gift MasterCard program, which features Natalie Gulbis, and we also have other debit card programs currently in development. As one of the young stars on the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, Natalie Gulbis is in the top five of the most marketable young athletes, according to the January 2007 issue of Advertising Age. We also operate a consumer web site focused on providing bill payment services under the domain name www.billx.com and manage all of the related back-end processing through our own proprietary processing engine. Consumers subscribe to the payment service and are allowed to make a certain number of payments each month for a flat monthly fee and are assessed a separate fee for any additional payments made over the limit. Our online payment processing service seeks to provide consumers with an efficient and secure interface for paying and managing bills via the Internet. We also sell this payment portal service as a private label solution to online financial services providers looking to provide online bill payment capabilities as part of their service offering to consumers. We also offer this service to other debit card issuers, as we are able to utilize the bill payment component of this service for payments made via debit cards, a patented process for which we own a perpetual license. 4 Relationships with Sponsors and Processors We have agreements with several processors to provide to us, on a non-exclusive basis, transaction processing and transmittal, transaction authorization and data capture, and access to various reporting tools. In order to provide payment processing services for Automated Clearinghouse transactions, we must maintain a relationship with an Originating Depository Financial Institution in the Automated Clearinghouse Network because we are not a bank and therefore not eligible to be an Originating Depository Financial Institution. The third-party provider that handles our Automated Clearinghouse processing maintains a relationship with several Originating Depository Financial Institutions on our behalf. Similarly, in order to provide payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard transactions, we must be sponsored by a financial institution that is a principal member of the Visa and MasterCard card associations. We have an agreement with TriSource Solutions, L LC through which their member bank sponsors us for membership in the Visa and MasterCard card associations and settles card transactions for our merchants. This agreement may be terminated by the processor if we materially breach the agreement and we do not cure the breach within 30 days, or if we enter bankruptcy or file for bankruptcy. Under our processing agreement with TriSource Solutions, we are financially liable for all fees, chargebacks and losses related to our card processing merchant customers. If, due to insolvency or bankruptcy of our merchant customers, or for another reason, we are unable to collect from them amounts that have been refunded to the cardholders because the cardholders properly initiated a chargeback transaction to reverse the credit card charges, we must bear the credit risk for the full amount of the cardholder transaction. We utilize a number of systems and procedures to evaluate and manage merchant risk, such as obtaining approval of prospective merchants from our processor and sponsor bank, setting transaction limits and monitoring account activity. We may also require cash deposits and other types of collateral from certain merchants to mitigate any such risk. We maintain a reserve for losses resulting from card processing and related chargebacks. We estimate our potential loss for chargebacks by performing a historical analysis of our chargeback loss experience with similar merchants and considering other factors that could affect that experience in the future, such as the types of card transactions processed and nature of the merchant relationship with their consumers. We also maintain a separate allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability or failure of our merchant customers to make required payments for fees charged by us. Amounts due from customers may be deemed uncollectible because of merchant disputes, fraud, insolvency or bankruptcy. We determine the allowance for doubtful accounts based on an account-by-account review, taking into consideration such factors as the age of the outstanding receivable, historical pattern of collections and financial condition of the customer. We closely monitor extensions of credit and if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make contractual payments, additional allowances may be required. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and services through direct contact by our sales personnel, as well as through non-exclusive resellers that act as an external sales force, with minimal direct investment in sales infrastructure and management. Our direct sales effort is coordinated by a sales executive and supported by other employees who function in sales capacities. Our primary market focus is on companies generating high volumes of electronic payment transactions. We tailor our sales efforts to reach this market by pre-qualifying prospective sales leads through direct contact or market research. Our sales personnel typically initiate contact with prospective customers that we identify as meeting our target profile. We also plan to market and sell our celebrity card programs directly to consumers, primarily through the Internet. We will continue to analyze our sales and marketing efforts in order to control costs, increase the effectiveness of our sales force , and broaden our reach through reseller initiatives and advantageous alliances. Customers The majority of our customers are consumers geographically dispersed throughout the United States utilizing our billx.com Internet bill payment service on a recurring monthly basis to pay household bills. The service relationship between our billx.com customers and us is not contractual and the fee we charge for the service is not negotiable. We seek to retain customers by providing high service levels. Customers also have incentive to continue using the service once activated due to their investment of time in setting up the service with their personal banking and payment information. The monthly average number of billx.com customers using our online payment service decreased to 922 in 2007 from 1,276 in 2006. Our other customers are merchants and businesses that use our Automated Clearinghouse and/or card-based processing services in order to provide their consumers with the ability to pay for goods and services without having to use cash or a paper check. These merchant customers operate in a variety of retail industries and are under contract with us to exclusively use the services that we provide to them. Most of our merchant customers have signed long-term contracts, with generally three-year terms, that provide for volume-based transaction fees. Our merchant accounts increased to 347 customers at December 31, 2007 from 201 customers at December 31, 2006. Services provided to Lexicon Marketing, Protection One, Calsurance and YMCA of Louisville accounted for approximately 28%, 8%, 8% and 7%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Services provided to Lexicon Marketing, Online Supplier and YMCA of Louisville ac counted for approximately 27%, 24% and 6%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. 5 Competition The payment processing industry is highly competitive. Many small and large companies compete with us in providing payment processing services and related services to a wide range of merchants. There are a number of large transaction processors, including First Data Merchant Services Corporation, National Processing Company, and Global Payments Inc., that serve a broad market spectrum from large to small merchants and provide banking, automatic teller machine, and other payment-related services and systems in addition to card-based payment processing. There are also a large number of smaller transaction processors that provide various services to small and medium-sized merchants. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources than us and operate as subsidiaries of financial or bank holding companies, which may allow them on a consolidated basis to own and conduct depository and other banking activities that we do not have the regulatory a uthority to own or conduct. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: · quality of service; · reliability of service; · ability to evaluate, undertake and manage risk; · speed in implementing payment processes; · price and other financial terms; and · multi-channel payment capability. We believe that our specific focus on providing integrated payment processing solutions to merchants, in addition to our understanding of the needs and risks associated with providing payment processing services electronically, gives us a competitive advantage over other competitors, which have a narrower market perspective, and over competitors of a similar or smaller size that may lack our experience in the electronic payments industry. Furthermore, we believe we present a competitive distinction through the use of our internal technology to provide a single integrated payment storage or warehouse that consolidates, processes, tracks and reports all payments regardless of payment source or channel. Trademarks We own federally registered trademarks on the marks Payment Data Systems, Inc. and Payment Data Systems, Inc. and design. We have also secured domain name registrations for billx.com, billxpress.com, billhelp.com, paymentdatasystems.com, paymentdata.org and paymentdata.com. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our services and related products. Patent In April 2006, we were awarded Patent Number 7,021,530 from the U.S. Patent Office for the technology and method for managing and processing bill payment via a stored-value debit card, check card, signature debit card, PIN-based card or ATM card from a variety of access points. The debit card technology for which we received patent protection allows a cardholder to use their debit or ATM card to pay local, national, or international bills with the card from their electronic balance. Because it does not require linkage to a traditional checking or savings account, this new debit technology is unique in that it allows for use by “unbanked” consumers. On January 11, 2008, we signed an agreement to sell selected patents and patent applications to PCT Software Data, LLC, including U.S. Patent Number 7,021,530. On January 17, 2008, we completed the sale of selected patents and patent applications to PCT Software Data, LLC for net proceeds of approximately $750,000. The patents and patent applications sold relate to bill payments made with debit and stored value cards. We retained a worldwide, non-exclusive license under the patents for use with all current and future customers. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 8 full-time employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are very good. 6 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this prospectus. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our independent accountants have issued a going concern opinion and if we cannot obtain additional financing, we may have to curtail operations and may ultimately cease to exist. Our independent accountants have issued a going concern opinion. Due to continuing operating losses, our current available cash and cash equivalents along with anticipated revenues are likely to be insufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. Consequently, our ability to continue as a going concern is likely contingent on us receiving additional funds in the form of equity or debt financing. We currently plan to meet our capital requirements primarily through the issuance of equity securities or new borrowing arrangements. Accordingly, we are aggressively pursuing strategic alternatives. However, financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms or achieve positive cash flow, we may be forced to curtail operations or may ultimately cease to exist. We have generated significant losses and expect to generate operating losses for the foreseeable future, therefore we may not become profitable. We organized in 1998 and began operations as a public company in 1999 by offering electronic billing services to other companies. After the sale of our primary business in July 2003, we have concentrated on building our electronic payments services operations. We have not been profitable since inception and we may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $52,479,336. If our security applications are not sufficient to address changing market conditions and customer concerns, we may incur significant losses and be unable to sell our services. Our use of applications designed for premium data security and integrity to process electronic transactions may not be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations in the event of the loss of confidential card information. Adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider's security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change, our business may fail. Our success depends on our ability to develop new and enhanced services and related products that meet changing customer needs. The market for our services, however, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and frequent new and enhanced software, service and related product introductions. In addition, the software market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. To remain successful, we must respond to new developments in hardware and semiconductor technology, operating systems, programming technology and computer capabilities. In many instances, new and enhanced services, products and technologies are in the emerging stages of development and marketing, and are subject to the risks inherent in the development and marketing of new software, services and products. We may not successfully identify new service opportunities, and develop and bring new and enhanced services and related produc ts to market in a timely manner. Even if we do bring such services, products or technologies to market, they may not become commercially successful. Additionally, services, products or technologies developed by others may render our services and related products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new services and products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business may fail. 7 We rely on our relationship with the Automated Clearinghouse Network and if the Federal Reserve rules were to change, our business could be adversely affected. We have a contractual relationship with a third-party provider, which maintains a relationship with multiple Originating Depository Financial Institutions in the Automated Clearinghouse Network. The Automated Clearinghouse Network is a nationwide batch-oriented electronic funds transfer system that provides for the interbank clearing of electronic payments for participating financial institutions. An Originating Depository Financial Institution is a participating financial institution that must abide by the provisions of the Automated Clearinghouse Operating Rules and Guidelines. Through our relationship with this third-party provider, we are able to process payment transactions on behalf of our customers and their consumers by submitting payment instructions in a prescribed Automated Clearinghouse format. We pay volume-based fees to the third-party provider for debit and credit transactions processed each month, and pay fees for other transactions such as ret urns and notices of change to bank accounts. These fees are part of our cost structure. If the Federal Reserve rules were to change to introduce restrictions or modify access to the Automated Clearinghouse, our business could be materially adversely affected. If our third-party card processing providers or our bank sponsors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, we may have to find a new third-party processing provider, which could increase our costs. Substantially all of the card-based transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If our third-party processing provider, TriSource Solutions, LLC, or our bank sponsor, Merrick Bank, fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate their registration. Also, our contract with these third parties is subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The cancellation of our contract, termination of their registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair their registration could require us to stop providing such payment processing services if we are unable to obtain another provider or sponsor at similar costs. Additionally, changing our bank sponsor could adversely affect our relationship with our merchants if the new sponsor provides inferior service or charges higher costs. We depend on Michael R. Long and Louis A. Hoch and if these officers ceased to be active in our management, our business may not be successful. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, service and related product development and operational personnel, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Michael R. Long and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Louis A. Hoch. We signed employment agreements with Mr. Long and Mr. Hoch in February 2007 which prohibits them from competing with us for a period of two years upon termination of their employment. Our business may not be successful if, for any reason, either of these officers ceased to be active in our management. If our software fails, and we need to repair or replace it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could increase. Our software products could contain errors or "bugs" that could adversely affect the performance of services or damage a user's data. We attempt to limit our potential liability for warranty claims through technical audits and limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer agreements. However, these measures may not be effective in limiting our exposure to warranty claims. We have not experienced a significant increase in software errors or warranty claims. Despite the existence of various security precautions, our computer infrastructure may also be vulnerable to viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by our customers or third parties gaining access to our processing system. If our software fails, and we need to replace or repair it, or we become subject to warranty claims, our costs could significantly increase. Our business strategy includes identifying businesses and assets to acquire, and if we cannot integrate acquisitions into our company successfully, we may not become profitable. Our success partially depends upon our ability to identify and acquire undervalued businesses and merchant portfolios within our industry. Although we believe that there are companies and portfolios available for potential acquisition that might offer attractive business opportunities, we may not be able to make any acquisitions, and if we do make acquisitions, they may not be profitable. As a result, our business may not grow and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 8 If we do not manage our growth, we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We may experience a period of rapid growth that could place a significant strain on our resources. In order to manage our growth successfully, we will have to continue to improve our operational, management and financial systems and expand our work force. A significant increase in our customer base may necessitate the hiring of a significant number of additional personnel, qualified candidates for which, at the time needed, may be in short supply. In addition, the expansion and adaptation of our computer and administrative infrastructure will require substantial operational, management and financial resources. Although we believe that our current infrastructure is adequate to meet the needs of our customers in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to expand and adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, hire needed personnel, expand and adapt our computer infrastructure and improve our operational, management, and financial systems and controls, we may not attain or sustain profitability. If we do not manage our credit risks related to our merchant accounts, we may incur significant losses. We rely on the Federal Reserve's Automated Clearinghouse system for electronic fund transfers and the Visa and MasterCard associations for settlement of payments by credit or debit card on behalf of our merchant customers. In our use of these established payment clearance systems, we generally bear the credit risks arising from returned transactions caused by insufficient funds, stop payment orders, closed accounts, frozen accounts, unauthorized use, disputes, customer charge backs, theft or fraud. Consequently, we assume the credit risk of merchant disputes, fraud, insolvency or bankruptcy in the event we attempt to recover funds related to such transactions from our customers. We have not experienced a significant increase in the rate of returned transactions or incurred any losses with respect to such transactions. We utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage and limit credit risks, but if these actions are not successful in managing such risks, we may incur significant losses. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The electronic commerce market is relatively new and if it does not grow, we may not be able to sell sufficient services to make our business viable. The electronic commerce market is a relatively new and growing service industry. If the electronic commerce market fails to grow or grows slower than anticipated, or if we, despite an investment of significant resources, are unable to adapt to meet changing customer requirements or technological changes in this emerging market, or if our services and related products do not maintain a proportionate degree of acceptance in this growing market, our business may not grow and could even fail. Additionally, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the electronic commerce market in general, and our customer base and revenues, in particular. Similar to the emergence of the credit card and automatic teller machine industries, we and other organizations serving the electronic commerce market must educate users that electronic transactions use encryption technology and other electronic security measures that make el ectronic transactions more secure than paper-based transactions. Changes in regulation of electronic commerce and related financial services industries could increase our costs and limit our business opportunities. We believe that we are not required to be licensed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, or other federal or state agencies that regulate or monitor banks or other types of providers of electronic commerce services. It is possible that a federal or state agency will attempt to regulate providers of electronic commerce services, which could impede our ability to do business in the regulator's jurisdiction. Our business has also been affected by anti-terrorism legislation, such as the Patriot Act. Banking related provisions of the Patriot Act have been implemented as additions to the banking rules regarding monetary instrument sales record keeping requirements and tracking of cash movements. In our capacity as an agent for Meta Payments Systems, a division of MetaBank, a federally chartered savings bank that is the issuing bank for our debit card programs, we are required to comply with these rules. We are also required to implement a Customer Identification Program and establish an Anti-Money Laundering program and to report any suspected money laundering to the appropriate agencies. Our compliance with such regulations increases our responsibilities and costs associated with the administration of our debit card programs. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to commercial transactions, such as the Uniform Commercial Code, and may be subject to the electronic funds transfer rules embodied in Regulation E, promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board. Given the expansion of the electronic commerce market, the Federal Reserve Board might revise Regulation E or adopt new rules for electronic funds transfer affecting users other than consumers. Because of growth in the electronic commerce market, Congress has held hearings on whether to regulate providers of services and transactions in the electronic commerce market. It is possible that Congress or individual states could enact laws regulating the electronic c ommerce market. If enacted, such laws, rules and regulations could be imposed on our business and industry and could increase our costs or limit our business opportunities. 9 If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, we could lose market share and our costs could increase. Portions of the electronic commerce market are becoming increasingly competitive. We expect to face growing competition in all areas of the electronic payment processing market. New companies could emerge and compete for merchants of all sizes. We expect competition to increase from both established and emerging companies and that such increased competition could lower our market share and increase our costs. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, many of whom have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, may respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or could expand to compete directly against us in any or all of our target markets. Accordingly, it is possible that current or potential competitors could rapidly acquire market share. We may not be able to compete against current or future competitors successfully. Additionally, competitive pressures may increase our costs, which could lower our earnings, if any. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at a price higher than what you paid. The market for our common stock is highly volatile. In 2007, our closing stock price fluctuated between $0.05 and $0.14. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors or us, changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors' products and services, changes in product mix, or changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates. Existing stockholders may experience significant dilution from the sale of securities pursuant to our Investment Agreement with Dutchess. The sale of shares pursuant to our Investment Agreement with Dutchess may have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. As a result, our net income per share could decrease in future periods and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is at the time we exercise our put option, the more shares we will have to issue to Dutchess to draw down on the full equity line with Dutchess. If our stock price decreases, then our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. Dutchess will pay less than the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock to be issued under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess will be purchased at a 5% discount to the lowest closing best bid price during the five days immediately following our notice to Dutchess of our election to exercise our put right. Dutchess has a financial incentive to sell our common stock immediately upon receiving the shares to realize the profit between the discounted price and the market price. If Dutchess sells our shares, the price of our stock could decrease. If our stock price decreases, Dutchess may have a further incentive to sell the shares of our common stock that it holds. The discounted sales under our Investment Agreement with Dutchess could cause the price of our common stock to decline. “Penny stock” rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our shares. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, br oker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities We have adopted certain measures that may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of our company. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. Such classification of the Board of Directors expands the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and may tend to discourage a proxy contest or other takeover bid for our company. We have also instituted a stockholders rights plan that serves to help prevent a hostile takeover of our company. 10 