Risk Factors Related to Our Shares Penny stock rules may negatively impact the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to rules promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) relating to “penny stocks,” which apply to certain companies whose shares trade at less than $5.00 per share and which do not meet certain other financial requirements specified by the SEC. These rules require brokers who sell “penny stocks” to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” to complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors, and provide investors with certain information concerning the risks of trading in such penny stocks. These rules may discourage or restrict the ability of brokers to sell our common stock and may affect the secondary market for our common stock. These rules could also have a detrimental effect upon our ability to raise funds through an offering of our common stock. Volatility of share price and absence of dividends. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile. Many factors could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, including: • our or our competitors’ announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulatory actions; • developments with our strategic alliances and collaborators; • developments concerning our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors (including litigation); • period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • market conditions for consumer technology stocks in general; and • other factors not within our control. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the holders or purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their shares at prices equal to or greater than their cost. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations through new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies whose businesses are dependent on technology and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the holders or purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their shares at prices equal to or greater than their cost. 24 Table of Contents Investors may not be able to secure foreign enforcement of civil liabilities against management. The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be adversely affected by the fact that we are organized under the laws of Canada, that some of our officers and directors are residents of a foreign country and that all, or a substantial portion, of such persons’ assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our common stock to affect service of process on such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 