Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in or continue to hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common shares could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Concerning Our Customers and Products A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few large customers. The vast majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. Our top customer, GameStop Inc., accounted for approximately 25% of our gross sales in fiscal 2010, 29% of our gross sales in fiscal 2009 and 33% of our gross sales in fiscal 2008. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 61% of gross sales in fiscal 2010, 62% of gross sales in fiscal 2009, and 70% of gross sales in fiscal 2008. We do not have long-term agreements with these or other significant customers and our agreements with these customers do not require them to purchase any specific number or amount of our products. As a result, agreements with respect to pricing, returns, cooperative advertising or special promotions, among other things, are subject to periodic negotiation with each customer. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business. The loss of any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, the uncertainty of product orders can make it difficult to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with actual sales, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales. If our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates. We have net monetary asset and liability balances in foreign currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar and the Chinese Yuan Renminbi (“CNY”). International sales primarily are generated by our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany and Canada, and are denominated typically in their local currency. The expenses incurred by these subsidiaries are also denominated in the local currency. As a result, our operating results are exposed to change in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar and the CNY. We do not currently hedge our foreign exchange risk, which historically has not been significant. We will continue to monitor our exposure to currency fluctuations, and, where appropriate, may use financial hedging techniques in the future to minimize the effect of these fluctuations, which may be significant from time to time. One or more of our largest customers may directly import or manufacture private-label products that are identical or very similar to our products. This could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. Videogame and PC accessories are widely available from manufacturers and other suppliers around the world. Each of our largest customers has substantially greater resources than we do, and has the ability to directly import or manufacture private-label videogame accessories from manufacturers and other suppliers, including from some of our own subcontract manufacturers and suppliers. Our customers may believe that higher profit margins can be achieved if they implement a direct import or private-label program, reducing sales of our products. As a consequence, our sales and profitability could decline significantly. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few core product categories. We are dependent on a small number of core product categories to generate a significant proportion of our revenues. No assurance can be given that these or other products will continue to have consumer acceptance or that they will maintain their historical levels of sales. The loss of one or more of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our financial results are dependent on timely introduction of new products, and any failure or delay in the introduction of new products to the marketplace may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our product mix constantly changes. We generate our revenues from a number of frequently updated and enhanced “active products.” We define active products as products that have maintained a minimum level of average gross sales per quarter. Each product may be configured and sold in a number of different stock keeping units. We typically introduce new products and discontinue a similar number of products each year to maintain an optimal number of active products that we believe best supports our customers and the market. If we do not introduce new products in a timely and efficient manner and in accordance with our operating plans, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be negatively and materially affected. There are numerous steps required to develop a product from conception to commercial introduction and to ensure timely shipment to retail customers, including designing, sourcing and testing the electronic components, receiving approval of hardware and other third-party licensors, factory availability and manufacturing and designing the graphics and packaging. Any difficulties or delays in the product development process will likely result in delays in the contemplated product introduction schedule. It is common in new product introductions or product updates to encounter technical and other difficulties affecting manufacturing efficiency and, at times, the ability to manufacture the product at all. Although these difficulties can be corrected or improved over time with continued manufacturing experience and engineering efforts, if one or more aspects necessary for the introduction of products are not completed as scheduled, or if technical difficulties take longer than anticipated to overcome, the product introductions will be delayed, or in some cases may be terminated. No assurances can be given that products will be introduced in a timely fashion, and if new products are delayed, our sales and revenue growth may be limited or impaired. Some of our products have been only recently introduced and although they may experience strong initial market acceptance, no assurance can be given that any initial acceptance will result in future sales. As a general matter, we expect that sales of these products will decline over the product’s life cycle. We cannot predict the length of the life cycle for any particular product. In order to control costs, and take advantage of the limited shelf space provided to us, we must periodically discontinue some of our product offerings. Our long-term operating results will therefore depend largely upon our continued ability to conceive, develop and introduce new appealing products at competitive prices. We depend upon third parties to develop products and videogames. Our business is dependent upon the continued development of new and enhanced videogame platforms and videogames by first-party manufacturers, such as Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, and videogames by publishers, including but not limited to, Activision, Electronic Arts, Ubisoft, Take-Two Interactive Software and THQ. Our business could suffer if any of these parties fail to develop new or enhanced videogame platforms or popular game and entertainment titles for current or future generation platforms. If a platform is withdrawn from the market or fails to sell, we may be forced to liquidate our inventories or accept returns resulting in significant losses. New game platforms and development for multiple consoles create additional technical and business model uncertainties that could impact our business. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of videogame accessories for use with proprietary videogame platforms, such as the Nintendo Wii, DS and DSi; the Microsoft Xbox 360; the Sony PlayStation 3. The success of our products is significantly affected by commercial acceptance of such videogame platforms and the life cycle of older platforms. In addition, we anticipate that the research and development 10 Table of Contents expenses incurred to develop compatible accessories for new and updated videogame platforms may impact our profitability. If first-party manufacturers choose to design PC or console-based systems that do not operate with third-party accessories and are successful in implementing technological barriers that prevent us from developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing products for these new game platforms, our ability to continue our current business would be severely limited and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity would be harmed. Changes to current game platforms or introductions of new game platforms may result in our products becoming inoperable or less desirable on some game platforms and/or for some games, which would reduce sales of our products and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A significant proportion of our revenues are derived from products that are reverse engineered. First-party manufacturers continually update their game platforms to enhance features and to correct problems in the operating systems and reduce costs. These manufacturers also expend significant resources to create new game platforms. During the development of such product updates and new game platforms, manufacturers may implement changes to the design of the new game platforms that render our products inoperable and/or less desirable for playing certain games. If our products become inoperable on one or more game platform, or if platform system enhancements make our products less desirable, our sales may be significantly reduced. Moreover, we may have excess inventories of products that do not operate properly with new game platforms, which would limit our growth and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations and some of our products are regulated under various federal, state, local and international environmental laws. In addition, regulatory bodies in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate propose, enact and amend environmental laws and regulations on a regular basis. The laws and regulations applying to our business include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, disposal and labeling of, and exposure to, hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We are required to incur additional costs to comply with such regulations and may incur fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that our competitors choose not to abide by these environmental laws and regulations, we will be at a cost disadvantage, thereby hindering our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. Errors or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Any defects or errors in the operation of our products may result in delays in their introduction. In addition, errors or defects may be uncovered after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Adults and children could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us because we have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core 11 Table of Contents business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, causing a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources. If we do not accurately forecast demand for particular products, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would reduce our gross margins or cause us to lose sales. Demand for our products depends on many factors such as consumer preferences and the introduction or adoption of game platforms and related content, and can be difficult to forecast. Demand for our products may remain stagnant or decrease. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand for specific products as we introduce and support additional products, enter additional markets and as competition in our markets intensifies. If we misjudge the demand for our products, we could face the following problems in our operations, each of which could harm our operating results: • If our forecasts of demand are too high, we may accumulate excess inventories of products, which could lead to markdown allowances or write-offs affecting some or all of such excess inventories. We may also have to adjust the prices of our existing products to reduce such excess inventories. • If demand for specific products increases beyond what we forecast, our suppliers and third-party manufacturers may not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet the demand. Our failure to meet market demand would lead to missed opportunities to increase our base of users, damage our relationships with retailers and harm our business. • Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in increased manufacturing errors, as well as higher component, manufacturing and shipping costs, including increased air freight, all of which could reduce our profit margins and harm our relationships with retailers and consumers. Our pricing and product return policies and other promotional activities may negatively impact our sales and profitability and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our products are value-priced or feature-enhanced versions of products offered by first-party manufacturers. Sales of products that compete with a similar first-party product generally comprise nearly half of our gross sales. In the event a first-party manufacturer or other competitor reduces its prices, we could be forced to respond by lowering our prices to remain competitive. If we are forced to lower prices, we may be required to “price protect” the products that remain unsold in our customers’ inventories at the time of the price reduction. Price protection results in us issuing a credit to our customers in the amount of the price reduction for each unsold unit in the customer’s inventory. Our price protection policies, which are customary in the videogame industry, can have a major impact on our sales and profitability if we are forced to reduce the price of products for which a large inventory exists. It is also likely that we will experience additional price competition, which may lead to price protection, as we continue to introduce new and enhanced products. To the extent we introduce new versions of products or change our product sales mix, the rate of product returns may also increase above historical levels. Although we establish allowances for anticipated product returns and believe our existing policies have resulted in allowances that are adequate, there can be no assurance that such product return obligations will not exceed our allowances in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to comply with the terms of our license agreements, which may result in the loss of one or more of the licenses. We have entered into license and royalty agreements with various parties in which we pay fees in exchange for rights to use product inventions or trademarked names, shapes and likenesses in our products. The agreements often include minimum fee guarantees based on a reasonable expectation of the product sales to be generated throughout the life of the agreement. We cannot assure that we will be able to meet these expectations and may be obligated to pay unearned fees as a result. Some of our license agreements also contain stringent requirements regarding the use of the licensor’s trademarks. Our license and royalty agreements are for fixed terms. We cannot assure that we will 12 Table of Contents be able to comply with all of the requirements contained in our licenses or that we will be able to maintain or extend the rights to our existing licenses. Some of our license agreements with videogame console developers have expired or may expire within the next fiscal year, which could limit our product offerings and significantly reduce our revenues. Historically, a majority of our revenues have come from the sale of videogame accessories for use with videogame consoles sold by first-party manufacturers. Some of these products have been produced under license agreements with these first-party manufacturers. Some of these licenses are necessary in order for us to actually produce and sell the products (“license dependent products”), while other licenses have some perceived or actual marketing or sales benefit, but do not dictate whether we can produce the product (“marketing licenses”). Some of these license agreements have expired and others may expire, which could limit our product offerings and significantly reduce our revenues. In March 2009, we amended our license agreement with Microsoft Corporation under which we have the right to manufacture (through third party manufacturers), market and sell certain peripheral products for the Xbox 360 videogame console (“Xbox 360 Agreement”). The products produced pursuant to the Xbox 360 Agreement are license-dependent products. The term of the Xbox 360 Agreement is two years, with automatic renewals for successive one-year periods unless either party provides written notice of its intention to terminate the license at least 90 days prior to the end of the current term. Should the Xbox 360 Agreement expire, be terminated for cause, or fail to be renewed, our product offerings may be limited thereby significantly reducing our revenues. The collectibility of our receivables depends on the continued viability and financial stability of our retailers and distributors. Due to the concentration of our sales to large high-volume customers, we maintain significant accounts receivable balances with these customers. As of March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, our 10 largest accounts receivable balances accounted for approximately 71% and 76% of total accounts receivable, respectively. We generally do not require any collateral from our customers to secure payment of these accounts receivable. However, we do seek to control credit risk through ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and by purchasing credit insurance on European retail accounts receivable balances. If any of our major customers were to default in the payment of their obligations to us, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks Concerning Our Suppliers The manufacture and supply of our products is dependent upon a limited number of third parties, and our success is dependent upon the ability of these parties to manufacture and supply us with sufficient quantities of our products and on the continued viability and financial stability of these third-party suppliers. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers for our products. There can be no assurance that these manufacturers and suppliers will be able to manufacture or supply us with sufficient quantities of products to ensure consumer availability. In addition, these parties may not be able to obtain the raw materials, energy or oil supply required to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such manufacturers and suppliers will not refuse to supply us with products, and independently market their own competing products in the future, or will not otherwise discontinue their relationships with or support of our Company. Our failure to maintain our existing manufacturing and supplier relationships, or to establish new relationships in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling for any reason to supply us with a sufficient quantity of our products, our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. We obtain our GameShark videogame enhancement products from third-party suppliers, for which an alternative source may not be available. If any of our key suppliers became financially unstable, our access to these products might be jeopardized, thereby adversely affecting our business, cash flow, financial condition and operational results. 13 Table of Contents Production levels that do not match demand for our products could result in lost sales or a reduction in our gross margins. The videogame and PC accessories industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments and rapid changes in demand. We determine production levels based on forecasts of the demand for our products. Actual demand for our products is difficult to forecast. If the actual demand for our products does not match the manufacture of our products, a number of problems could occur, including the loss of potential sales if production cannot be increased to match demand, and additional expenditures necessary to accelerate the production of some products, resulting in lower gross margins. Additionally, if customers find alternative sources of supply to meet their needs, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Any disruption of shipping and product delivery operations globally could harm our business. We rely on contract ocean carriers to ship virtually all of our products from China to our primary distribution centers in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom. Customers that take delivery of our products in China rely on a variety of carriers to ship those products to their distribution centers and retail outlets. We also rely on a number of sources of ground transportation to deliver our products from our primary distribution centers in the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany to our retail customers’ and distributors’ distribution centers and retail outlets. Any disruption or delay in the importation of our products, in the operation of our distribution centers or in the delivery of our products from our primary distribution centers to our retail customers’ and distributors’ distribution centers and retail outlets for any reason, including labor strikes or other labor disputes, terrorism, international incidents or lack of available shipping containers or vehicles, could significantly harm our business and reputation. Risks of Doing Business Internationally Any loss of China’s Normal Trade Relations “NTR” with the United States, or any changes in tariffs or trade policies, could increase our manufacturing expenses and make it more difficult for us to manufacture our products in China, if at all. The majority of our products are manufactured in China and exported from Hong Kong and China to the United States and worldwide. Our products sold in the United States are currently not subject to United States import duties. However, as a result of opposition to policies of the Chinese government and China’s growing trade surpluses with the United States, there has been, and in the future may be, opposition to the extension of NTR status for China. The loss of NTR status for China, changes in current tariff structures, or adoption in the United States of other trade policies adverse to China could increase our manufacturing expenses and make it more difficult for us to manufacture our products in China, if at all. Our manufacturing relationships in China may be adversely affected by changes in the political, economic and legal environment in China. We maintain offices in Hong Kong and in China. The success of our operations in Hong Kong and China is highly dependent on the Chinese government’s continued support of economic reform programs that encourage private investment, and particularly foreign private investment. A change in these policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect us by, among other things, imposing confiscatory taxation, restricting currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, prohibiting us from manufacturing our products in China, or restricting our ability to ship products from China into Hong Kong, or to ship finished products out of Hong Kong, or otherwise shutting down our offices in Hong Kong and China. Although the Chinese government has chosen economic reform policies to date, no assurance can be given that it will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies will not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership or other social or political disruption. Our sources of manufacturing and distribution capabilities could be adversely affected by ongoing tensions between the Chinese and Taiwanese governments. The Chinese government has threatened military action against Taiwan unless Taiwan adopts a plan for unifying with China. As of yet, Taiwan has not indicated that it intends to propose or adopt a reunification plan. Any military action on the part of China could lead to sanctions or military 14 Table of Contents action by the United States and/or European countries, which could materially affect our sales to those countries and our operations in China. There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions have limited precedential value. In addition, many laws and regulations are relatively new; and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, resulting in sporadic and inconsistent enforcement and interpretation. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, leading to additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court in a different jurisdiction. The Chinese tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties and has been subject to recently enacted changes, the interpretation and enforcement of which are also uncertain. There can be no assurance that changes in Chinese tax laws or their interpretation or their application will not subject us to substantial Chinese taxes in the future. There are numerous risks associated with our international operations, any number of which could harm our business. We have offices and sales throughout the world. Our registered office and a sales office are in Canada. Our operational headquarters is in San Diego, California. We also have offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, China and Hong Kong. Approximately 55% of our gross sales in fiscal year 2010 were generated by customers whose retail locations are in North America, and a substantial majority of our products are manufactured by third parties in Hong Kong and China. The geographical distances between our operations create a number of logistical and communications challenges. These challenges include managing operations across multiple time zones, directing the manufacture and delivery of products across long distances, coordinating procurement of components and raw materials and their delivery to multiple locations, and coordinating the activities and decisions of the management team, which is based in a number of different countries. In addition, there are other risks inherent in international operations, which could result in disruption or termination of supply of our products available for sale. These risks include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws and tariffs; • political instability and the potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries; • differences in labor laws, labor unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • longer payment cycles; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potential adverse tax consequences; • limitations on imports or exports of components or assembled products, or other travel restrictions; • differing intellectual property rights and protections; • delays from doing business with customs brokers and governmental agencies; and • higher costs of operations. These factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Risks We may be faced with legal challenges related to our products, including that our products infringe third parties’ intellectual property rights. These challenges could cause us to incur significant litigation or licensing expenses or could prohibit us from producing or marketing some or all of our products entirely. Although we do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement or other legal claims will not be asserted against us or that any such claims will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Regardless of their validity or success, such claims may result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If licensing arrangements are required but unavailable, we may be prohibited from marketing and distributing these products. In addition, we could also incur substantial costs to redesign our products to comply with legal orders or contractual arrangements. Any of these costs or outcomes could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent our competitors from using our technologies or similar technologies to develop competing products, which could weaken our competitive position and harm our financial results. Our success depends in part on the use of proprietary technologies. We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with selected parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of that intellectual property or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. Monitoring the unauthorized use of proprietary technology and trademarks is costly, and any dispute or other litigation, regardless of outcome, may be costly and time consuming and may divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The steps taken by us may not prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or trademarks. Many features of our products are not protected by patents; and as a consequence, we may not have the legal right to prevent others from reverse engineering or otherwise copying and using these features in competitive products. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could adversely affect our financial results. If our products are copied or “knocked-off,” our sales of these products may be materially reduced and our profitability may be negatively affected. Occasionally in the videogame and PC accessories industry, successful products are “knocked-off” or copied by competitors. While we strive to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that knock-offs will not occur or that they will not have a significant effect on our business. The costs incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights could be significant, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our rights. Financing Risks The amount of our outstanding debt may prevent us from taking actions we would otherwise consider in our best interest. On November 20, 2007, in connection with the acquisition of our Saitek operations, we issued convertible notes with an aggregate principal amount of $14,500,000 (the “Saitek Notes”). On June 24, 2009, the terms of the Saitek Notes were amended to extend the maturity of the Saitek Notes to March 31, 2019 with annual principal and interest payments of $2,400,000 due beginning March 31, 2011 until the Saitek Notes are retired and quarterly cash payments for partial interest in the amount of approximately $45,000. As amended, the Saitek Notes bear interest at 7.5% through March 31, 2014 and 9.0% thereafter. The quarterly cash payments payable to date as well as an interest payment of $500,000 due on October 31, 2009, and an interest payment of $596,035 due on March 31, 2010 16 Table of Contents have been paid. The debt represented by the conversion of and the limitations contained in the Saitek Notes could have material consequences on our business, including: • it may be difficult to generate sufficient capital to satisfy our obligations under the Saitek Notes and our outstanding credit facility; • cash required to repay borrowings under our credit facility and the Saitek Notes, should such Saitek Notes not be converted into equity, may limit our ability to make necessary or desirable capital investments in our business and to take advantage of significant business opportunities, including acquisitions or divestitures; • the amounts outstanding under the Saitek Notes and our credit facility may make it more difficult to obtain other debt financing in the future; • shares issued upon conversion of the Saitek Notes would represent a large share of our outstanding common stock and would result in substantial dilution of the percentage of ownership of the Company’s stockholders; • the debt obligations represented by the Saitek Notes could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt. We depend upon the availability of capital under our credit facility to finance our operations. Any additional financing that we may need may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. In addition to cash flow generated from sales of our products, we finance our operations with a Credit Facility (the “Credit Facility”) provided by Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Central) (“Wachovia”), an unrelated party. On June 23, 2009, we extended the Credit Facility until October 31, 2012. If we are unable to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants contained in the Credit Facility, Wachovia may declare the outstanding borrowings under the facility immediately due and payable. In such an event, our liquidity will be materially adversely affected, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations. We would be required to obtain additional financing from other sources. We cannot predict whether or on what terms additional financing might be available. If we are required to seek additional financing and are unable to obtain it, we may have to change our business and capital expenditure plans, which would have a materially adverse effect on our future results of operations. The Credit Facility contains financial and other covenants that we are obligated to maintain. If we violate any of these covenants, we will be in default under the Credit Facility. If a default occurs and is not timely cured or waived by Wachovia, Wachovia could seek remedies against us, including: (1) penalty rates of interest, (2) immediate repayment of the debt or (3) foreclosure on assets securing the Credit Facility. No assurance can be given that we will maintain compliance with these covenants in the future. The Credit Facility is asset based and can only be drawn down in an amount to which eligible collateral exists and can be negatively impacted by extended collection of accounts receivable, unexpectedly high product returns and slow moving inventory, among other factors. As of March 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants. If we need to obtain additional funds for any reason, including as a result of the termination of the Credit Facility or the acceleration of amounts due thereunder, increased working capital requirements, possible acquisitions or otherwise, there can be no assurance that alternative financing can be obtained on substantially similar or acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to promptly obtain alternate financing could limit our ability to implement our business plan and have an immediate, severe and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In the event that no alternative financing is available, we would be forced to drastically curtail operations, or dispose of assets, or cease operations altogether. Funding for our future growth may depend upon obtaining new financing, which may be difficult to obtain given prevalent economic conditions and the general credit crisis. To accommodate our expected future growth, we may need funding in addition to cash provided from current operations and continued availability under our Credit Facility provided by Wachovia. Our ability to obtain additional financing may be constrained by current economic conditions affecting global financial markets. 17 Table of Contents Specifically, the recent credit crisis and other related trends affecting the banking industry have caused significant operating losses and bankruptcies throughout the banking industry. Many lenders and institutional investors have ceased funding even the most credit-worthy borrowers. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to take advantage of opportunities with potential business partners or new products, to finance our existing operations or to otherwise expand our business as planned. Accounts receivable represent a large portion of our assets, a large portion of which are owed by a few customers. If these accounts receivable are not paid, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which, in turn, could limit our ability to pay liabilities and purchase an adequate amount of inventory. Our accounts receivable represented 28%, 28%, and 16% of our total assets as of March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result of the substantial amount and concentration of our accounts receivable, if any of our major customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, we could suffer a significant decline in cash flow and liquidity which could negatively affect our ability to make payments under our Credit Facility and which, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds, to purchase inventory, to sustain or expand our current sales volume. Accordingly, if any of our major customers fails to timely pay us amounts owed, our sales and profitability may decline. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness. We depend, in a significant part, on borrowings under the Credit Facility to finance our operations. At March 31, 2010, the outstanding balance under the Credit Facility was $3.8 million. The interest rate applicable to the Credit Facility varies based on the U.S. prime rate plus 2.00% or, at our option, LIBOR plus 3.5% with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%. The variable rate debt outstanding under the Credit Facility had a weighted average annual interest rate of approximately 5.0% for the year ended March 31, 2010. Increases in the interest rate under the Credit Facility will increase our interest expense, which could harm our profitability and cash flow. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet that may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in the event that we are required to recognize an impairment charge to goodwill. As of March 31, 2010, $8.5 million of goodwill is recorded on our balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At March 31, 2010, goodwill represented 16.4% of our total assets. We perform an annual impairment review at the reporting unit level during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment are present. Authoritative guidance requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be assessed for impairment using fair value measurement techniques. Specifically, goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We determined that we have one reporting unit and we assess fair value based on a review of our market capitalization as well as a discounted cash flow model, for which the key assumptions include revenue growth, gross profit margins, operating expense trends and our weighted average cost of capital. Given the volatility of our stock price and market capitalization, which fluctuates significantly throughout the year, we do not believe that our market capitalization is necessarily the best indicator of the fair value of our Company at any moment in time. However, we have determined that market capitalization over a sustained period, when considered with other factors may be an appropriate indicator of fair value. Further, to the extent the carrying amount of our reporting unit 18 Table of Contents exceeds its market capitalization over a sustained period, an impairment may exist and require us to test for impairment. During our 2009 fiscal year, we determined that a triggering event had occurred in the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $27.9 million. We completed our annual assessment of impairment as of March 31, 2010, which did not indicate any impairment of goodwill at such date. No assurance can be given that we will not be required to record additional goodwill impairments in future periods. General Risk Factors Acquired companies can be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. The benefits we anticipate may not be realized in the manner anticipated. We have made past acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of Tritton, and may make future acquisitions with the expectation that these acquisitions would result in various benefits including, among other things, enhanced revenue and profits, greater market presence and development, particularly in Europe, and enhancements to our product portfolio and customer base. We may not realize these benefits, as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by our management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies into our Company without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, some or all which could have a material adverse effect on our acquired businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any acquired business, product, or technology will be profitable or achieve anticipated revenues and income. Our failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, operations and costs incurred in connection with the integration of acquired companies with our other operating subsidiaries also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired companies; • potential loss of customers of the acquired companies; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; • integrating personnel with diverse business and cultural backgrounds; • preserving the development, distribution, marketing and other important relationships of the acquired companies; • assumption of liabilities of the acquired companies; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue and cost savings to offset acquisition costs. Our acquisitions may also cause us to: • incur additional debt; • make large and immediate one-time write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; • become subject to intellectual property or other disputes; and • create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant impairment charges and/or amortization expense in the future. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate, execute and integrate acquisitions, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. 19 Table of Contents We must stay at the forefront of technology and any inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The videogame and PC accessories industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and changing customer requirements. Much of the development of our new product offerings is dependent upon our ability to reverse engineer first-party products as they are introduced by the manufacturers; and the introduction of products that prevent or delay our ability to effectively develop products through reverse engineering could prevent us from developing new products, which would harm our business operations, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The introduction of products embodying or based upon new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing inventory of products obsolete, incompatible with new consoles and unmarketable. We believe that any future success will depend upon our ability to reverse engineer new videogame systems, introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, respond to evolving end-user requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we cannot reverse engineer the next generation videogame platforms or fail to develop and introduce new enhancements or new products for existing platforms, or if changes to existing videogame platforms render our products out of date or obsolete, or if our intended customers do not accept these products, our business would be materially harmed. Current economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Our revenue and profitability are affected by global business and economic conditions, including the current crisis in the credit markets, particularly in the United States and Europe. Downturns in the global economy could have a significant impact on demand for our products. In a poor economic environment such as we are operating in today, there is a greater likelihood that more of our customers could become delinquent on their obligations to us or go bankrupt, which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which would adversely affect our earnings. Uncertainty created by the long-term effects of volatile oil prices, the global economic slowdown, continuation of the global credit crisis, the war in the Middle East, terrorist activities, potential pandemics, natural disasters and related uncertainties and risks and other geopolitical issues may impact the purchasing decisions of current or potential customers. Because of these factors, we believe the level of demand for our products and services, and projections of future revenue and operating results, will continue to be difficult to predict. If economic conditions in the United States and other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business and operating results. Natural disasters or other events outside of our control may damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend for the manufacture and distribution of our products. Our North American distribution center and operational headquarters are located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. All of our facilities may be subject to a variety of natural or man-made disasters. An earthquake or other event outside our control, such as power shortages, floods, fires, monsoons, other severe weather conditions, terrorism or other similar events, could disrupt our operations or damage or destroy our facilities. Any of these disruptions could impair the manufacture or distribution of products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions or otherwise affect our business negatively, harming our business operations and future financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, if the facilities of our third-party product manufacturers are affected by similar activities beyond our control, our ability to obtain sufficient manufactured products could suffer or be impaired. Our operations are vulnerable because we have limited redundancy and backup systems. Any failure of our data information systems could negatively impact our financial results. Our internal order, inventory and product data management system is an electronic system through which we manage customer orders and product pricing, shipment, returns, among other matters. The continued and uninterrupted performance of our information systems is critical to our day-to-day business operations. Despite our precautions, unanticipated interruptions in our computer and telecommunications systems have, in the past, caused problems or stoppages in this electronic system. These interruptions, and resulting problems, could occur in 20 Table of Contents the future. We have extremely limited ability and personnel to process purchase orders and manage product pricing and other matters in any manner other than through this electronic system. Any interruption or delay in the operation of this electronic system could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. Our business is seasonal and our financial results vary from period to period. The videogame and PC accessories industry is highly seasonal and our operating results vary substantially from period to period. We generate a substantial portion of our sales during the holiday season. The high level of seasonality causes us to take significant risks in the purchase of inventory for the holiday season. There can be no guarantee that our customers or we will sell all of our inventories. Excess inventory at year-end may result in financial losses from obsolescence, reserves, returns and markdowns. Moreover, if expenses remain relatively fixed, but our revenues are less than anticipated in any quarter, our operating results would be adversely affected for that quarter. In addition, incurring unexpected expenses could adversely affect operating results for the period in which such expenses are incurred. Failure to achieve periodic revenue, earnings and other operating and financial results as anticipated by brokerage firms or industry analysts could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. We may not discover, or be able to confirm, revenue or earnings shortfalls until the end of a quarter, which could result in a greater immediate and adverse effect on the share price. We are constantly looking for opportunities to grow our business and diversify our product line. If we fail to successfully manage the expansion of our business, our sales may not increase commensurately with our capital investments, which would cause our profitability to decline. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive. As a result, we look for opportunities to grow our business, including through the expansion of our product offerings. We plan to continue the diversification of our product line. Our new product offerings, including our complete lines of products for each of the next generation gaming systems, have required and will continue to require significant resources and management’s close attention. In offering new products, our resources are likely to be strained because we have less experience in the new product categories. Our failure to successfully manage our planned product expansion could result in our sales not increasing commensurately with our capital investments, causing a decline in our profitability. Possible increase in value to Chinese currency vis-à-vis U.S. currency could have a material impact on the cost of our products. Since 2007, the CNY has traded against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market in a 0.5% trading band rather than being pegged to the U.S. Dollar as it was prior to 2005 or trading in the 0.3% range applicable between 2005 and 2007. The administrative rules governing the floating band of the CNY trading prices against non-US dollar currencies in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market and the spread between the CNY/U.S. dollar selling and buying prices quoted by the foreign exchange-designated banks remain unchanged. The Chinese government may decide to change or abandon this policy at its sole discretion at any time in the future. The recent appreciation of the CNY against the U.S. dollar and any additional appreciation in the exchange rate of the CNY against the U.S. dollar will increase our factory and production costs, including labor and certain raw materials that could have a material impact on the cost of our products and our results of operations. Failure to attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our ability to achieve our revenue and operating performance objectives will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified and highly skilled sales, marketing, operations, logistics, management, engineering and finance personnel. We compete for our personnel with other companies, and competition for such personnel is intense and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future, particularly for those with relevant technical expertise. Failure to retain and expand our key employee population could adversely affect our business and operating results. 21 Table of Contents We are heavily dependent upon our senior management team. The continued availability of this team will be a major contributing factor to our future growth. In the event that any member of senior management becomes unavailable for any reason, we could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on our senior management. Competition for market acceptance and retail shelf space and pricing competition affects our revenue and profitability. The videogame and PC accessory market is highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. Only a small percentage of products introduced in the market achieve any degree of sustained market acceptance. If our products are not successful, our operations and profitability will be negatively impacted. Competition in the videogame accessory industry is based primarily upon: • the availability of significant financial resources; • the quality of products; • reviews received for products from independent reviewers; • access to retail shelf space; • the success of the game console for which the products were developed; • the price at which the products are sold; and • the number of other competing products for the system for which the products were developed. Some of our competitors, particularly the first-party manufacturers, enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, larger technical staffs, more established and larger sales and marketing organizations, significantly greater financial and other resources, ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or ability to establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with retailers, distributors and other marketers. Increased competition from these and other sources could require us to respond to competitive pressures by establishing pricing, marketing and other programs or seeking out additional acquisitions that may be less favorable than what we could otherwise establish or obtain, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in our markets. Any future terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the demand for videogame and PC accessories, which may negatively affect our operations and financial results. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States, Europe and the Middle East and the military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in the demand for videogame accessories, or our inability to effectively market our products, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Volatility in the mass-market and consumer electronic retail sectors could have a material adverse effect on our sales. We sell our products through a network of domestic and international mass-market and consumer electronics retailers, as well as some distributors, and our success depends on the continued viability and financial stability of these customers. The retail industry has historically been characterized by significant volatility, including periods of widespread financial difficulties and consolidations, and the emergence of alternative distribution channels. While we attempt to minimize the risks associated with this industry volatility, there is always a risk that one or more of our 22 Table of Contents customers will experience economic difficulties or be acquired by competitors. If any of our customers cease doing business, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risk Factors Related to Our Internal Controls If we fail to maintain an adequate system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting and in turn affect the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations require the management of public companies in the United States to evaluate and report on the companies’ systems of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accountants will be required to attest to and report on our management’s evaluation beginning with our 2011 fiscal year. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses and management resources to comply with the requirements of Section 404 on an ongoing basis. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken to assess, document, improve and validate through testing the adequacy of our internal control process over financial reporting will ensure that we maintain such adequate controls over our financial reporting process in the future. Failure to implement required new controls could cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, which in turn could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting. Inferior internal controls or the determination that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective might cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause volatility in the market price of our shares. Risk Factors Related to Our Shares Penny stock rules may negatively impact the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to rules promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) relating to “penny stocks,” which apply to certain companies whose shares trade at less than $5.00 per share and which do not meet certain other financial requirements specified by the SEC. These rules require brokers who sell “penny stocks” to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” to complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors, and provide investors with certain information concerning the risks of trading in such penny stocks. These rules may discourage or restrict the ability of brokers to sell our common stock and may affect the secondary market for our common stock. These rules could also have a detrimental effect upon our ability to raise funds through an offering of our common stock. Volatility of share price and absence of dividends. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile. Many factors could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, including: • our or our competitors’ announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulatory actions; • developments with our strategic alliances and collaborators; • developments concerning our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors (including litigation); • period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • market conditions for consumer technology stocks in general; and • other factors not within our control. 23 Table of Contents We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the holders or purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their shares at prices equal to or greater than their cost. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, announcements of technological innovations through new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies whose businesses are dependent on technology and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the holders or purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their shares at prices equal to or greater than their cost. Investors may not be able to secure foreign enforcement of civil liabilities against management. The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be adversely affected by the fact that we are organized under the laws of Canada, that some of our officers and directors are residents of a foreign country and that all, or a substantial portion, of such persons’ assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our common stock to affect service of process on such persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 