Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our shares involves risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the factors described below before making an investment decision in our securities. The risks described below are the risks that we currently believe are material risks of the business and the industry in which we compete. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Current economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations Beginning in 2008 and continuing in 2009, the U.S. and global economies slowed dramatically as a result of a variety of serious problems, including turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions, the state of the housing markets and volatility in worldwide 13 Table of Contents stock markets. During 2009, we experienced reductions in revenues from countries within our Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) sales region, where recent economic slowdowns have been especially acute. Given the significance and widespread nature of these nearly unprecedented circumstances, the U.S. and global economies could remain significantly challenged for an indeterminate period of time. These economic conditions, which are beyond our control, could cause many of our existing and potential customers to delay or reduce purchases of our products or services for some time, which in turn would harm our business by adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the duration of these economic conditions or the impact they will have on our customers or business. Our future success may be impaired and our operating results will suffer if we cannot respond to rapid market, competitive and technological conditions in the software industry The market for our software products and services is characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • frequent introduction of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services by platform vendors of database, application and Windows products and by our competitors; • increasing complexity and interdependence of software applications; • consolidation of the software industry; • changes in industry standards and practices; and • changes in customer requirements and demands. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance our existing products and develop new products and services, functionality, and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers, which requires significant investment in research and development resources and capabilities, involves significant technical and business risks and requires substantial lead-time and significant investments in product development. If we fail to anticipate new technology developments, customer requirements, industry standards, or if we are unable to develop new products and services that adequately address these new developments, requirements, and standards in a timely manner, or if we are incapable of timely bringing new or enhanced products to market, our products and services may become obsolete, we may not generate suitable returns from our research and development investments, and our ability to compete may be impaired, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may suffer. In recent years, a large portion of our revenue has been attributable to the growth of our Microsoft Systems Management and Virtualization Management products and services, and we have relied upon cash flow generation from our Database Management products to fund sales, marketing and research and development initiatives associated with our other product areas. We cannot provide any assurance that we will sustain or grow the revenues we derive from these product areas. In addition, over the last few years we have committed significant resources to development of new and enhanced application management products and have realigned our sales and services organizations to address anticipated business opportunities presented by our expanding application management product and services lines. We cannot provide any assurance that this strategy will be successful or that the release of our enhanced application management products or other new products or services will increase our revenue growth rate. 14 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in future periods and, as a result, we may fail to meet expectations of investors and analysts, causing our stock price to fluctuate or decline Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. These factors include the following: • the size and timing of customer orders (See “Variations in the size and timing of our customer orders and differing nature of our products and services could expose us to revenue fluctuations and higher operating costs”); • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchasing decisions and budget cycles; • the timing of revenue recognition for sales of software products and services (See “Contractual terms or issues arising during software license negotiations may affect the timing of transactions and revenues”); • the extent to which our customers renew their maintenance contracts with us; • exposure to general economic conditions and reductions in corporate or public sector IT spending (See “Current economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations”); • changes in our level of operating expenses and our ability to control costs; • customers opting to license our products for a fixed term rather than on a perpetual basis which defers the accounting recognition of such license revenue; • our ability to attain market acceptance of new products and services and enhancements to our existing products; • our ability to introduce new products or enhancements to existing products and services in a timely manner; • our ability to maintain our field and inside sales organizations with adequate numbers of sales and services personnel, and to minimize our costs of sales and marketing through efficient allocation of sales resources and methods to products having different sales characteristics and profiles; • the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by our competitors and changes in the pricing policies of these competitors; • the relative growth rates of competing operating system, database and application platforms and competitive conditions among vendors of these platforms; • the unpredictability of the timing, level of sales and subsequent revenue recognition of our expanded efforts within our indirect sales channels; • costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses, including acquired in-process research and development and amortization costs for intangible assets and possible impairments and uncertainties arising from the integration of products, services, employees and operations of acquired companies; and • the timing of releases of new versions of third-party software products that our products support or with which our products compete. In addition, the timing of our software product revenues is difficult to predict and can vary substantially from product-to-product and customer-to-customer. We budget our operating expenses on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. The timing of larger orders and customer buying patterns are difficult to forecast. Therefore, we may not learn of shortfalls in revenue or earnings or other failures to meet our expectations until late in a particular quarter. As a result, if total revenues for a particular quarter are below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. We have experienced seasonality in our orders and revenues. We typically achieve the highest levels of orders and revenues for the year in the fourth quarter, which levels are usually higher than we achieve in the first 15 Table of Contents quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from the budgeting cycles of our customers being typically higher in the third and fourth quarters and, to a lesser extent, from the structure of our sales commission program. In addition, the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal quarter to finalize orders has resulted in higher order volumes towards the end of the quarter. These factors, combined with the relatively fixed nature of our expenses, leads to seasonality of earnings. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future. Due to these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations are also likely to affect the market price of our common stock, if our operating results differ from expectations of investors or securities analysts, and may not be related to or indicative of our long-term performance. In periods of worsening economic conditions, our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases Our outstanding accounts receivables are generally not secured. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables and have not suffered any material losses, there can be no assurance such procedures will continue to effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses. As economic conditions have deteriorated, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents (other than our auction rate securities); however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. Variations in the size and timing of our customer orders and differing nature of our products and services could expose us to revenue fluctuations and higher operating costs Our license revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and delivered in that quarter. Our revenues in a given quarter could be adversely affected if we are unable to complete one or more large license transactions or if the contract terms were to prevent us from recognizing revenue during that quarter. The sales cycles for certain of our software products can last from three to nine months, or longer and often require pre-purchase evaluation periods and customer education, which can affect timing of orders. Further, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last month, weeks or days of each quarter and delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenue to fall short of anticipated levels. Finally, while a portion of our revenues each quarter is recognized from previously deferred revenue, our quarterly performance will depend primarily upon current order volumes to generate license revenues for that quarter. These factors may cause significant periodic variation in our license revenues. In addition, we incur or commit to operating expenses based on anticipated revenue levels, and generally do not know whether revenues in any quarter will meet expectations until the end of that quarter. 16 Table of Contents Our product portfolio is engineered for a broad variety of operating system, database and application platforms, and having a diverse set of functions and features. Some products, such as our database management products and other component products, are directed at database administrators and are generally sold at lower price points, and we strive to generate demand for these products through our telesales organization and marketing programs designed to maximize lead generation and website traffic. Sales of other, enterprise-wide products, primarily SharePlex, Foglight and Desktop Virtualization products, require substantial time and effort from our sales and support staff as well as involvement by our professional services organizations and, to an increasing degree, our systems integrator partners. Large individual sales, or even small delays in customer orders, can cause significant variation in our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations for a particular period. Historically, we have not placed significant reliance on large sales transactions in any given quarter, with a substantial volume of our revenues being driven from smaller transactions. However, if we encounter difficulty sustaining our component product volumes, and cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders, or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. For these reasons, we face increasing complexity in building and sustaining the optimum combination of field and inside sales personnel to address the various and changing sales and distribution characteristics of our products, which in turn impacts our ability to manage and minimize our sales and marketing costs. We rely heavily on our direct sales activities for license and services revenues, including renewals of annual maintenance contracts. We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our sales force in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues and other internal considerations. Accordingly, if our revenue growth rates slow or our revenues decline, or if we fail to efficiently correlate our sales and marketing resources to our various products and their differing sales and distribution strategies, our operating results could be seriously impaired because many of our expenses are relatively fixed in nature and cannot be easily or quickly changed. Contractual terms or issues arising during software license negotiations may affect the timing of transactions and revenues Because our software products are designed to work with critical elements of the information technology systems of our customers, pre-sales evaluations of our products by potential customers and contractual negotiations are often protracted and complex, and the time necessary to negotiate mutually acceptable terms and complete software license or services transactions often result in extended sales cycles. While we generally use standardized forms of software license agreements and order documentation in our transactions, it is not uncommon for large, more sophisticated IT customers to heavily negotiate terms and conditions for sales and services involving amendments to our standard forms or the use of alternative forms of agreements, which can also delay completion of transactions and recognition of the related revenue. Several other factors may require us to defer recognition of license revenue for a period of time after entering into a license arrangement, including instances where we are required to deliver specified additional products, product upgrades or services for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, licensing our product for a fixed term rather than on a perpetual basis, or where negotiated terms of the software license agreement affect other software revenue recognition requirements. Many of our products are vulnerable to direct competition from Oracle and other platform vendors We compete with Oracle in the market for database management solutions and the competitive pressure continues to increase. We expect that Oracle’s commitment to and presence in the database management product market will increase in the future and therefore substantially increase competitive pressures. We believe that Oracle will continue to incorporate database management technology into its server software offerings and expand their development products possibly at no additional cost to its users. Competition from Oracle with certain of our Database Management products including SharePlex, Quest Central for Oracle and TOAD, our market leading Database Development product for Oracle databases, has increased over the last few years. 17 Table of Contents In addition to the increasing competitive pressure from Oracle, Microsoft has continually upgraded the functionality of its platform offerings, which we also believe will increase competitive pressure for our Microsoft products in the future. In some cases these types of platform vendor-provided tools are bundled with the platform and in other cases they are separately chargeable products, albeit at significantly lower price points. The inclusion of the functionality of our software as standard features of the underlying database solution or application supported by our products or sale at much lower cost could erode our revenues, particularly if the competing products and features were of comparable capability to our products. Even if the functionality provided as standard features or lower costs by these system providers is more limited than that of our software, there can be no assurance that a significant number of customers would not elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing our products. Moreover, there is substantial risk that the mere announcements of competing products or features by large competitors such as Oracle could result in the delay or cancellation of customer orders for our products in anticipation of the introduction of such new products or features. Our migration products for Microsoft’s Active Directory and Exchange are vulnerable to fluctuations in the rate at which customers migrate to these products Our products for the migration, administration and management of Microsoft’s Active Directory and Exchange products currently contribute approximately 20% of our Windows platform revenue. Our ability to sell licenses for our Active Directory and Exchange migration products depends in part on the rate at which customers migrate to newer versions of Microsoft’s Active Directory or to newer versions of Microsoft Exchange, and from other messaging platforms to Exchange. If these migration rates were to materially decrease, our license revenues from these migration products would likely decline. Many of our products are dependent on database or application technologies of others; if these technologies lose market share or become incompatible with our products, or if these vendors introduce competitive products or acquire or form strategic relationships with our competitors, the demand for our products could suffer We believe that our success has depended in part, and will continue to depend in part for the foreseeable future, upon our relationships with providers of major database and enterprise software programs, including Oracle, IBM, Microsoft, VMware, Cisco and SAP. Our competitive advantage consists in substantial part on the integration between our products and products provided by these major software providers, and our extensive knowledge of their products and technologies. If these companies for any reason decide to promote technologies and standards that are not compatible with our technologies, or if they lose market share for their database or application products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these major software vendors could attempt to increase their presence in the markets we serve by either introducing products that compete with our products or acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors. These companies have longer operating histories, larger installed bases of customers and substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and technical resources than we do, as well as well-established relationships with many of our present and potential customers, and may be in better position to withstand and respond to the current factors impacting this industry. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we fail to manage our operations and grow revenue or fail to continue to effectively control expenses, our future operating results could be adversely affected Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international 18 Table of Contents companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage our current operations and any future growth effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and our current revenue expectations, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. Failure to develop and sustain additional distribution channels in the future may adversely affect our ability to grow revenues We intend to direct additional efforts to drive domestic and international revenue growth through sales of our products and services through indirect distribution channels, such as global hardware and software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers. Our ability to increase future revenues depends on our ability to expand our indirect distribution channels. If we fail in our efforts to maintain, expand and diversify our indirect distribution channels, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increasing activity in indirect distribution channels will present a number of additional risks, including: • we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities, which may result in lost sales and customer confusion; • our channel partners can cease marketing and distributing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; • our channel partners may not be able to effectively sell our products and services; • our channel partners may experience financial difficulties that might lead to delays, or even default, in their payment obligations; • we may not be able to recruit additional channel partners, or replace any of our existing ones; and • our channel partners may also offer competitive products and services, and may not give priority to marketing our products or services. Intense competition in the markets for our products could adversely affect our results of operations The markets for our products are highly competitive. As a result, our future success will be affected by our ability to, among other things, outperform our competitors in meeting the needs of current and prospective customers and identifying and addressing new technological and market opportunities. Our competitors may develop more advanced technology, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and undertake more effective sales and marketing campaigns and may be able to leverage more extensive financial, technical or partner resources. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our revenues may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Our international operations are generally conducted through our international subsidiaries, with the associated revenues and related expenses, and balance sheets, denominated in the currency of the country in which the international subsidiaries operate. As a result, our operating results may be harmed by fluctuations in 19 Table of Contents exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. The foreign currencies to which we currently have the most significant exposure are the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound, the Euro, the Australian Dollar and the Russian Ruble. In 2009, we implemented a foreign exchange hedging program using derivative financial instruments to hedge certain of our foreign exchange exposures. However, we do not rely on our hedging program to eliminate all foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our international operations expose us to certain risks We maintain research and development operations in Canada, Australia, Russia, United Kingdom, China, Czech Republic, Hong Kong and Israel, and we also have significant sales activities around the globe. As a percentage of total revenues, revenues outside of the Americas were 32.8%, 37.9% and 35.8% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As a result, we face risks from our international operations, including, among others: • difficulties in staffing, managing and operating our foreign operations; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • difficulties in adapting our existing foreign operations, particularly in Asia, to the control structure and requirements of a US public entity given the historical environment and cultural approach to conducting business in Asian countries; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and in other periods in other countries; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that are not wholly mitigated by our foreign currency hedging program; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenue from international operations if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • delays in localizing our products; • political unrest or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; • our ability to adapt and conform to accepted local business practices and customs, including providing letters of credit or other forms of support to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries or resellers; • compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, including employment restrictions; • compliance with licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • activities by our employees, contractor or agents, especially in countries with developing economies, that are prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and by local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, in spite of our policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws; and • wage inflation in foreign countries where we have historically benefited from relatively low labor costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources and will place additional burdens on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. 20 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that investment and additional resources required in establishing facilities in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. In addition, we have limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing them internationally. Cash earned by our foreign subsidiaries is held at those subsidiaries and transferring this cash to the United States could have a negative impact on our earnings A substantial portion of our cash balances result from the operations of, and are held by, our foreign subsidiaries. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our foreign subsidiaries to fund our activities within the United States could have adverse tax consequences and be limited by foreign currency exchange controls. Acquisitions of companies or technologies may result in disruptions to our business and diversion of management attention We have in the past made and we expect to continue to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions require us to assimilate the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and train, retain and motivate key personnel from the acquired businesses. We may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if we fail in these efforts. Similarly, acquisitions may subject us to liabilities and risks that are not known or identifiable at the time of the acquisition or may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners. We may have to use cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. Use of cash or debt may affect our liquidity and use of cash would reduce our cash reserves and reduce our financial flexibility. The issuance of equity securities for any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. In consummating acquisitions, we are also subject to risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. If we are unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products or technologies with our existing operations, we may not receive the intended benefits of an acquisition. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. Accounting for equity investments in companies may affect our operating results We have made equity investments in other software companies and a private equity fund. We regularly consider opportunities to make equity investments in other companies focused on software development or marketing activities, and expect from time to time to complete additional investments. These investments are risky because the market for the products and technologies being developed by these companies are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Estimating the fair value of our equity investments is inherently subjective and may contribute to volatility in our reported results of operations. We have recognized accounting charges due to the impairment of the value of our investments in the past and may need to do so again in the 21 Table of Contents future if we cannot substantiate the fair value of our strategic equity investments. If we are required to consolidate the operating results of these companies, use the equity method of accounting, or write down the value of our cost method investments, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets We invest our cash balances in high-quality issuers and, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer other than the United States government and its agencies. Our cash equivalent and investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 consists of money market funds, auction rate municipal securities and term deposits. Our municipal auction rate securities are investment grade quality and are in compliance with our investment policy as of the end of 2009. Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity and market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience reductions in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Note 4 – Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our cash equivalents and investment portfolio. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices as well as other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We face risks associated with governmental contracting We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with the United States government and its agencies and from contracts with state and local governments or agencies. Most of our government contracting is conducted indirectly through third party resellers and only an immaterial portion of our government contracting revenues arise from contracts in which we bear the risk of renegotiation of profits or contractual termination at the government’s election. However, demand and payment for our products and services are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability, with funding reductions or delays adversely impacting public sector demand for our products and services. Public sector customers may also change the way they procure new contracts and may adopt new rules or regulations governing contract procurement, including required competitive bidding or use of “open source” products, where available. These factors may limit the growth of or reduce the amount of revenues we derive from the public sector, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We may not generate increased business from our current customers, which could slow our revenue growth in the future Most of our customers initially make a purchase of our products for a single department or location. Many of these customers may choose not to expand their use of our products. If we fail to generate expanded business 22 Table of Contents from our current customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, as we deploy new modules and features for our existing products or introduce new products, our current customers may choose not to purchase this new functionality or these new products. Maintenance revenue could decline Our services revenues arising from maintenance services have increased over the last three years as a result of a growing base of installed products. Declines in our license bookings, adverse changes in our foreign currency exchange rates, increased discounting in maintenance renewal bookings and/or a reduction in the extent to which our customers renew maintenance contracts would lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. As maintenance revenue makes up a substantial portion of our total revenue, any decline in our maintenance revenue could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Failure to develop or leverage strategic relationships could harm our business by denying us selling opportunities and other benefits Our development, marketing, and distribution strategies rely increasingly on our ability to form strategic relationships with software and other technology companies. These business relationships often consist of cooperative marketing programs, joint customer seminars, lead referrals, and cooperation in product development. Many of these relationships are not contractual and depend on the continued voluntary cooperation of each party with us. Divergence in strategy or change in focus by, or competitive product offerings by, any of these companies may interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell, or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. Further, if these companies enter into strategic alliances with other companies or are acquired, they could reduce their support of our products. Our existing relationships may be jeopardized if we enter into alliances with competitors of our strategic partners. In addition, one or more of these companies may use the information they gain from their relationship with us to develop or market competing products. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position Our success and ability to compete are dependent on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. We generally rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright law and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such resulting litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and financial resources, which could harm our business. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate and competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We also believe that, because of the rapid rate of technological change in the software industry, trade secret and copyright protection are less significant than factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of our employees, frequent product enhancements and the timeliness and quality of customer support services. Third parties may claim that our software products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, exposing us to litigation that, regardless of merit, may be costly to defend Our success and ability to compete are also dependent upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our current or future products infringe their 23 Table of Contents intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could have a significant effect on our business and financial results. Any future third party claim could be time consuming, divert management’s attention from our business operations and result in substantial litigation costs, including any monetary damages and customer indemnification obligations, which may result from such claims. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief affecting our ability to license the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. As a result of such claims, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, develop alternative technology or redesign our products. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a successful claim is made against us and we are unable to develop or license alternative technology, our business and financial results and position could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if our software contains errors or security flaws The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors or security flaws will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third-party software applications and databases. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or security flaws or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: • loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share; • loss of customers; • damage to our reputation; • failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and • increased insurance costs. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could harm our business by increasing our costs and distracting our management. We incorporate software licensed from third parties into some of our products and any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could reduce the demand for, or prevent the shipping of, our products Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third-party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third-party vendors in our future products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products or defects in these products could harm our sales unless and until we can secure an alternative source. Although we believe there are adequate alternate sources for the technology licensed to us, such alternate sources may not provide us with the same functionality as that currently provided to us. 24 Table of Contents Natural disasters or power outages could disrupt our business A substantial portion of our operations is located in California, and we are subject to risks of damage and business disruptions resulting from earthquakes, floods, wildfires and similar events, as well as from power outages. We have in the past experienced limited and temporary power outages in our California facilities due to power shortages, and we expect in the future to experience additional power losses. While the impact to our business and operating results has not been material, we cannot assure you that natural disasters or power outages will not adversely affect our business in the future. Since we do not have sufficient redundancy in our networking infrastructure, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could have an adverse effect on our business, including both our internal operations and our ability to communicate with our customers or sell and deliver our products. Failure to attract and retain personnel may negatively impact our business Our success and ability to compete depends largely on the continued contributions of our key management, sales, engineering, marketing, support, professional services and finance personnel. We experience turnover throughout our organization and many key positions are held by people who are new to the Company or to their roles. If these people are unable to quickly become familiar with the issues they face in their roles or are not well suited to their new roles, then this could result in the Company having problems in executing its strategy or in reporting its financial results. We are highly dependent upon the talents, relationships and contributions of a few executives and have no guarantee of their retention. We have been targeted by recruitment agencies seeking to hire our key management, finance, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. We have recently started using restricted stock units (RSUs) to compensate and retain key employees and to align the interests of our employees and stockholders. For example, beginning in 2008 we designed an employee reward program for key employees, which provides us with the ability to make awards under the program in the form of RSUs. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or fail to reach expected levels of productivity, our ability to develop and market our products will be weakened. Our revolving line of credit agreement and our loan agreement contain financial and non-financial covenants, and default of any covenant could adversely affect us Our revolving line of credit agreement with Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC, as well as our loan agreement with Mutual of Omaha Bank which is secured by our real property at our headquarters in Aliso Viejo, California, impose operating restrictions on us in the form of financial and non-financial covenants. These restrictions limit the manner in which we can conduct our business and may restrict us from engaging in favorable business opportunities. If we were to fail to comply with these covenants and not obtain a waiver from our lenders, we would be in default under these agreements, in which case our lenders could, among other things, terminate the facilities, demand immediate repayment of any outstanding amounts, and foreclose on our collateral. Settlement of civil litigation relating to our historical stock option granting practices is pending final court approval In October 2006, a purported shareholder class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against the Company and certain of our current or former officers and directors (the “Options Class Action”) alleging that the Company improperly backdated stock options, resulting in false or misleading disclosures concerning, among other things, our financial condition and that the individual defendants sold our stock while in possession of material nonpublic information. The Company, the class representative and certain of our current and former officers and directors have agreed to settle all claims in the Options Class 25 Table of Contents Action. A final hearing for approval of the settlement is scheduled before the U.S. District Court on March 15, 2010. If the settlement is approved following the final hearing, the court will enter a judgment dismissing the Options Class Action with prejudice as to all defendants, including the Company. If the settlement is not approved for any reason, the case will resume, which may be time consuming and expensive, and cause distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of this Options Class Action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we could be required to pay significant legal fees and damages in connection with this Options Class Action. Unforeseen difficulties with the re-implementation and operation of our Oracle computerized accounting system, or with the upgrading or implementation of our other computerized accounting and finance systems, could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to manage our business effectively, and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting We are currently in the process of re-implementing our Oracle accounting system, and we are also updating and implementing various other computerized accounting and finance systems. Designing and implementing these systems is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Costs and risks inherent in the conversion to our upgraded and new systems may include disruption to our normal procedures, potential delays, expenditure overruns beyond the projects’ budgets, and problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, negatively impacting our operating results and ability to effectively manage our business. Once upgraded and new systems are implemented, they may not operate as we expect them to. Any significant failure or malfunction may result in disruptions of our operations. This project will require changes to certain aspects of our existing system of internal controls over financial reporting. If we encounter unanticipated delays in upgrading our systems and implementing new systems, we may be unable to complete our testing of internal controls within the required time periods, which could create a material weakness or significant deficiency in our overall internal controls. Due to the number of controls examined, the complexity of our processes, and the subjectivity involved in determining the effectiveness of controls, we cannot be certain that, in the future, all of our controls will continue to be considered effective by management or, if considered effective by our management, that our auditors will agree with such assessment. Consequently, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or lose investor confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports. Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of our share repurchases could adversely affect our stock price as well. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, or the stock market in general, experiences uneven investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 