ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes, before you decide to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe might materially affect us; however, they may not be the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligations to update any risk factors. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Korlym and Development of Mifepristone and Our Other Proprietary GR-II Antagonists We depend heavily on the success of Korlym. If we are unable to commercialize Korlym, or experience significant delays in doing so, we may not generate revenues and our stock price will likely decline. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate meaningful revenues and achieve profitability will be solely dependent on the successful commercialization of Korlym. Many factors could harm our efforts to commercialize Korlym, including: • an inability to generate meaningful revenue due to low product usage, inadequate reimbursement or other factors; • an inability to manufacture Korlym or the active ingredient in Korlym in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost; • political concerns relating to other uses of mifepristone, or RU-486, that could limit the market acceptance of Korlym; • insufficient funding; • negative, inconclusive or otherwise unfavorable results from any post-approval studies we conduct; • previously unknown, serious side effects that may be identified; • rapid technological change making Korlym obsolete; and • competition from companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours. Physicians may accept Korlym slowly or may never accept it, which would adversely affect our financial results. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of Korlym. Even though the FDA has approved Korlym, physicians may not adopt it as a treatment for their eligible patients. Physicians will prescribe Korlym only if they determine, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles and other factors, that it is preferable to other products or treatments currently in use, even if those products are not approved for Cushing’s syndrome. Because Cushing’s syndrome is rare, most physicians are inexperienced in the care of patients with the illness and it may be difficult to persuade them to prescribe a new treatment, such as Korlym, even with clinical trial results that suggest that it may be a compelling alternative treatment for them to consider. Acceptance of Korlym among influential practitioners may be essential for market acceptance of Korlym. Other factors that may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of Korlym include: • the effectiveness of Korlym, including any side effects, as compared to alternative treatment methods; 18 Table of Contents • the rate of adoption of Korlym by physicians and by target patient populations; • the cost-effectiveness of Korlym and the availability of third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement, in particular from government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, for patients using Korlym; • the product labeling required by the FDA for Korlym; • the extent and success of our efforts to manufacture, commercialize, market, distribute and sell Korlym; • the timing of market entry of Korlym relative to competitive products; and • negative publicity concerning Korlym, RU-486, Mifeprex® or mifepristone. The failure of Korlym to achieve market acceptance would prevent us from generating meaningful revenue. If we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate coverage and reimbursement for Korlym from third-party payors, we will be unable to generate significant revenues. There is significant uncertainty related to the availability of third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved medications. The commercial success of our medications in both domestic and international markets depends on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for them. Government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medicines, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our medications. Our near-term dependence on the commercial success of Korlym makes us particularly susceptible to any such cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, even though Korlym has been approved for commercial sale, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate and timely coverage and reimbursement, physicians may not prescribe it and patients may not purchase it. In addition, meaningful delays in insurance coverage for individual patients may increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Further, we may need to obtain approvals from hospital formularies before Korlym can be reimbursed for in-patient treatment. If we fail to obtain such approvals, this will reduce the level of revenues that we are able to attain. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed health care in the United States and recent laws and legislation intended to reduce the cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products and may result in lower prices for our future products or the exclusion of such products from reimbursement programs. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as the PPACA, was passed. The PPACA includes, among other things, the following measures: • annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain prescription drugs and biologics; • increases in Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program for both branded and generic drugs; • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical research; • new requirements for manufacturers to discount drug prices to eligible patients by 50 percent at the pharmacy level and for mail order services in order for their outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; 19 Table of Contents • an increase in the number of entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; and • establishment of a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products. The PPACA provisions on comparative clinical effectiveness research extend the initiatives of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, also known as the stimulus package, which included $1.1 billion in funding to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments. This stimulus funding was designated for, among other things, conducting, supporting or synthesizing research that compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products. The PPACA also appropriates additional funding to comparative clinical effectiveness research. Although Congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it remains unclear how the research will impact current Medicare coverage and reimbursement or how new information will influence other third-party payor policies. Since its passage, a number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the PPACA’s provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. These challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The PPACA and regulations and policies implementing this legislation, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our products. The Orphan Drug Designation for Korlym may not provide protection from competition and other benefits as anticipated. In July 2007, we received Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA for Korlym for the treatment of hyperglycemia secondary to hypercortisolism in adult patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome who have type 2 diabetes mellitus or glucose intolerance and have failed surgery or are not candidates for surgery. Drugs that receive Orphan Drug Designation obtain seven years of marketing exclusivity for the approved indication from the date of drug approval, as well as tax credits for clinical trial costs, marketing application filing fee waivers and assistance from the FDA in the drug development process. In October 2011, the European Commission granted to us Orphan Designation for Korlym for the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome (hypercortisolism) in the EU. Benefits of Orphan Drug Designation in the EU are similar to those in the U.S., but include ten years of marketing exclusivity for the approved indication in all 27 member states, free scientific advice during drug development, access to a centralized review process and a reduction or complete waiver of fees levied by the European Medicines Agency. Although we have received Orphan Drug Designation in both the United States and the EU, we cannot be assured that we will recognize the potential benefits of these designations. Even after an orphan drug is approved for its orphan indication, the FDA can subsequently approve a different drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. In addition, the FDA may, during the seven year orphan drug exclusivity period, approve the same drug for a different indication. 20 Table of Contents We are also aware that Laboratoire HRA Pharma has received an Orphan Drug Designation in the United States and Europe for the use of mifepristone to treat a subtype of Cushing’s syndrome and has begun a Phase 2 clinical trial in Europe and the United States for this indication. We are also aware that Exelgyn Laboratories, which operates as a subsidiary of Medi Challenge (Pty) Ltd., received Orphan Drug Designation for Cushing’s syndrome in Europe, but they have stated that they have not yet conducted any clinical trials. If another drug with mifepristone as its active ingredient is approved in the EU for Cushing’s Syndrome before Korlym, we will not garner the ten years of marketing exclusivity from the date of drug approval in the EU and other benefits that we anticipate. Any delay in our commercialization of Korlym may have a negative impact on the revenue that we might be able to realize from the exclusivity provided during the applicable periods. We may face competition from other companies that attempt to develop mifepristone or other compounds for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome, which could limit our future revenues from the commercialization of Korlym and which could have a negative impact on future revenues from the commercialization of Korlym for any indication. We may experience competition from Novartis, which has received a recommendation for approval in the EU to market its somatostatin analogue, pasireotide, for the treatment of patients with Cushing’s disease (a subset of the patients with Cushing’s syndrome) who have failed or are not candidates for surgery. In the United States, Novartis completed its Phase 3 trial of pasireotide in Cushing’s disease and submitted an NDA to the FDA in June 2011. It withdrew this NDA in October 2011 due to an unspecified issue related to its chemistry, manufacturing and controls, but has stated that it plans to resubmit its NDA. As discussed above in the risk related to Orphan Drug Designation, we are also aware that Laboratoire HRA Pharma has begun a Phase II clinical trial in Europe and the United States evaluating the use of mifepristone to treat a subtype of Cushing’s syndrome. If another product for treatment of Cushing’s syndrome or Cushing’s disease is approved for commercialization, our potential future revenue could be reduced. We will need to develop medical education, sales and marketing capabilities to successfully commercialize Korlym and our other proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists. A limited number of our employees have experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must either develop a sales and marketing force or enter into arrangements with others to market and sell our current and future products. We are seeking to hire experienced medical science liaisons and other personnel to commercialize Korlym in the United States. However, our medical education, sales and marketing efforts may not be successful or cost-effective. If our efforts to develop a commercial organization are not successful, cost-effective and timely, we may not achieve profitability. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As we expand our research and development efforts and develop a sales and marketing organization, we expect to experience growth, which may strain our operations, product development and other managerial and operating resources. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. To date, we have relied on a 21 Table of Contents small management team, including a number of part-time contributors. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • integrate additional management, clinical development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; • expand the size and composition of our management team; • develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; • hire and train additional qualified personnel; • manage our clinical trials effectively; and • manage our research and development efforts effectively. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our business. Public perception of the active ingredient in Korlym, mifepristone or RU-486, may limit our ability to market and sell Korlym. The active ingredient in Korlym, mifepristone (RU-486), is used to terminate pregnancy. As a result, mifepristone has been and continues to be the subject of considerable ethical and political debate in the United States and elsewhere. Public perception of mifepristone may limit our ability to engage alternative manufacturers and may limit the commercial acceptance of Korlym by patients and physicians. Even though we have taken measures to minimize the likelihood of the prescribing of Korlym to a pregnant woman, physicians may choose not to prescribe Korlym to a woman simply to avoid any risk of unintentionally terminating a pregnancy. We have taken measures to control the distribution of Korlym to reduce the potential for diversion and this controlled distribution may negatively impact sales of Korlym. We have no manufacturing capabilities and we currently depend on third parties to manufacture the active ingredient and the tablets for Korlym, both of which are single source suppliers. If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing Korlym and we are unable to contract quickly with alternative sources, our business will be harmed. We currently have no experience in, and we do not own facilities for, nor do we plan to develop facilities for, manufacturing any products. We have an agreement with one approved manufacturer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in Korlym. This agreement is due to expire in November 2012 and we have initiated discussions about extension of the agreement. We have a memorandum of understanding with a second API manufacturer. However, there are no activities currently being conducted at this site to develop or qualify the manufacturing processes or facilities and we did not request approval of material produced by this second manufacturer when we submitted our NDA for Korlym. We have an agreement with the tablet manufacturer that we included in our NDA submission. This tablet manufacturer is a single-source supplier to us. Although we have negotiated a contract with a potential back-up tablet manufacturer, we have no assurance that we will be able to qualify this vendor as an alternate supplier. If our single-source supplier were to cease manufacturing tablets for us, fail to manufacture tablets on a timely basis, or fail to maintain manufacturing capabilities that meet FDA standards, we might be required to qualify an alternate supplier and we would likely experience a lengthy delay in our manufacturing processes. We cannot assure you that our single-source supplier will be able or willing to meet our future demands. Our current arrangements with these manufacturers are terminable by such manufacturers. If we are unable, for whatever reason, to obtain the active pharmaceutical ingredient or Korlym tablets from our contract 22 Table of Contents manufacturers, we may not be able to manufacture our required quantities or identify alternate manufacturers of mifepristone or Korlym tablets in a timely manner or on reasonable terms, if at all. If our third-party manufacturers of Korlym fail to comply with FDA regulations or otherwise fail to meet our requirements, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed. We depend on third party manufacturers to supply the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Korlym and to manufacture Korlym tablets. These suppliers and manufacturers must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations and guidelines. Our suppliers and manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving quality control and quality assurance and may experience shortages of qualified personnel. Their failure to follow cGMP or other regulatory requirements and to document their compliance with cGMP may lead to significant delays in the availability of products for commercial use or clinical study or the termination or hold on a clinical study, or may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for Korlym. If we, or our third party suppliers and manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulations, sanctions could be imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. If the operations of any current or future supplier or manufacturer were to become unavailable for any reason, commercialization of Korlym could be delayed and future revenue from product sales could be reduced. If we or others identify previously unknown, serious side effects of mifepristone, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of Korlym or withdraw it from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. If we or others identify previously unknown, serious side effects of mifepristone: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling, implement changes to or obtain re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities; • we may experience a significant drop in the sales of Korlym; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action lawsuits. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Korlym. We may have substantial exposure to product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover those claims. We may be subject to product liability or other claims based on allegations that the use of our products has resulted in adverse effects or that our product candidates are not effective, whether by participants in our clinical trials for Korlym or other product candidates, or by patients using Korlym. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about Korlym or any of our product candidates’ safety or efficacy and could limit our ability to sell a product by preventing or interfering with product commercialization. In some cases, less common adverse effects of a pharmaceutical product are not known until long after the FDA approves the product for marketing. The active ingredient in Korlym is used to terminate pregnancy. Therefore, clinicians using the medicine in our clinical trials and physicians prescribing the medicine to women with childbearing potential must take necessary and strict precautions to insure that the medicine is not administered to pregnant women. The failure to observe these precautions could result in significant product claims. 23 Table of Contents We have only limited product liability insurance coverage, with limits that we believe to be customary for a company beginning to commercialize its first pharmaceutical product. We intend to expand our product liability insurance coverage to any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. However, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of Korlym or any of our product candidates. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from conducting our business. If a third party successfully sues us for any injury caused by our product candidates, our liability could exceed our total assets. If we are unable to maintain regulatory approval of Korlym, we will be unable to generate revenue and our business will be harmed. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of products and product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, in which regulations differ from country to country. Failure to comply with the FDA and other applicable foreign and U.S. regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. These include warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, or supplements to approved NDAs. As is customary, the FDA’s approval of Korlym was subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the medicine may be marketed and requirements for post-marketing follow-up studies and information reporting. The FDA’s approval of Korlym requires that we conduct a study of the interactions between Korlym and ketoconazole, an anti-fungal agent sometimes used to treat patients with Cushing’s syndrome. It also requires us to conduct a drug utilization study to better characterize the reporting rates of adverse events associated with the long-term use of Korlym. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the medicine, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the medicine, and even result in withdrawal of Korlym from the market. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for future product candidates, including mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize such product candidates and our business will be harmed. Obtaining regulatory approval of a new drug is an uncertain, lengthy and expensive process, and success is never guaranteed. Despite the time, resources and effort expended, failure can occur at any stage. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process for human medicines. The FDA can deny, delay or limit approval of a product candidate for many reasons including, but not limited to: • the FDA may not find that the candidate is safe; • the FDA may not find data from the clinical or preclinical testing to be sufficient; or • the FDA may not approve our or our third party manufacturers’ processes or facilities. Future governmental action or changes in FDA policy or personnel may also result in delays or rejection of an NDA in the United States. In addition, because the only other currently FDA-approved use of mifepristone is the termination of pregnancy, we expect that the label for mifepristone for any indication, will include, as Korlym’s does, some limitations, including a so-called “black-box” warning that it should not be used by pregnant women or women seeking to become pregnant. If we receive regulatory approval for our future product candidates, including mifepristone for the treatment of psychotic depression, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory oversight and review, such as continued safety reporting requirements; and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our product candidates and/or may be subject to product recalls or seizures. 24 Table of Contents Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our future product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the medicine may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping for the medicine will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the medicine, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the medicine, and could include withdrawal of the medicine from the market. If we market products in a manner that violates FDA regulations or health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In the United States, we are subject to FDA regulations governing the promotion of health care products. Although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such “off-label” uses. In the United States, we will market Korlym for treatment of hyperglycemia secondary to hypercortisolism in adult patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome who have type 2 diabetes mellitus or glucose intolerance and have failed surgery or are not candidates for surgery and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of Korlym for this indication. Although we believe our marketing materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute “off-label” promotion of Korlym, the FDA may disagree. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities by our employees constitute “off-label” promotion of Korlym, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is later determined that we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. In addition, health care fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal health care programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, or “off-label” uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, (HIPAA), which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters; 25 Table of Contents • federal “sunshine” laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by the PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the FDA or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. If we decide, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies require us, to pursue additional clinical trials or other studies, there may be a delay in the development of our compounds, which may have a negative impact on our business. We may decide, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require us, to pursue additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing studies for mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. Additional trials or studies will require additional funding, the availability of which is not assured. Also, it is possible that additional trials or studies that we decide are necessary or desirable will delay or prevent the completion of the development of mifepristone for treating the psychotic features of psychotic depression. Many other factors could delay or result in termination of our clinical trials, including, but not limited to: • slow patient enrollment; • availability of funding; • negative or inconclusive results; • patient noncompliance with the protocol; • adverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials; • negative or problematic FDA inspections of our clinical operations or our manufacturing operations; and • real or perceived lack of effectiveness or safety of mifepristone. Even after we conduct all of the clinical trials and supportive studies that we consider appropriate for an optimal NDA, we may not receive regulatory approval to market mifepristone for psychotic depression. 26 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may not demonstrate that mifepristone is safe and effective for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. If our clinical program for mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression or for any other indications does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, our business will be harmed. To gain regulatory approval from the FDA to market mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, our on-going Phase 3 clinical trial must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of mifepristone for that indication. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays, and data obtained from clinical trials and supportive studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial of mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression may not demonstrate efficacy or safety results sufficient for approval, and we may need to conduct other studies in support of a potential NDA in that indication. Our use of MedAvante to provide centralized psychiatric rating services in Study 14, our ongoing clinical trial evaluating mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, may not result in any improvement in the accuracy and consistency of the psychiatric assessments and may continue to slow the pace of enrollment in Study 14. In connection with our ongoing Phase 3 trial evaluating mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, Study 14, we engaged MedAvante to provide centralized psychiatric rating services. MedAvante is providing centralized psychometric assessments via high resolution video-conferencing. The use of MedAvante’s centralized rating services is intended to increase the accuracy and consistency of the psychiatric assessments. MedAvante has provided similar centralized rating services to companies conducting clinical studies in various psychiatric disorders. However, they have not previously provided centralized rating services to any study in patients with psychotic depression. Although we and MedAvante conducted a small pilot evaluation in patients with psychotic depression to assess patient receptivity, we cannot be certain that centralized rating will be successful with the patients enrolled in our study. If patients are uncomfortable or unwilling to participate in the centralized rating process or if MedAvante is unable to provide services in a satisfactory manner over the course of the trial, we may not see any improvement in the accuracy or reliability of the psychiatric assessments. Such a result might diminish the likelihood of a successful trial or a definitive demonstration of the efficacy of mifepristone in treating the psychotic features of psychotic depression. During screening for Study 14, we have seen a higher than anticipated incidence of potential patients who do not meet appropriate criteria for entrance into the trial for diagnostic and other clinical reasons. Although we believe that this is the result of improved accuracy in the screening process resulting from the use of the MedAvante centralized rating services as an additional step in the selection of patients appropriate for inclusion in the study, MedAvante’s diagnostic screening has resulted in slower patient enrollment but may not actually improve trial performance. In addition, in mid-2009, in order to lower expenses and to conserve financial resources, we scaled back our planned rate of spending on this trial and extended the timeline for its completion. We are currently using a reduced total of eight clinical sites in order to conserve capital. This strategy may result in increased total study costs over the longer term. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis and, as a result, we may face costs and delays outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the timing of identification and selection of appropriate sites for our planned trials and the amount and timing of resources that the clinical sites that conduct the clinical testing may devote to our clinical trials. If our clinical investigators and 27 Table of Contents clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to enroll them on our planned schedules, we will be unable to complete our trials or to complete them as planned, which could delay or prevent us from completing the clinical development of mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression or other development programs. We have an agreement with a clinical research organization (CRO) that is conducting our ongoing Phase 3 trial evaluating mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression (Study 14) to supervise and monitor clinical site performance and to perform investigator supervision, data collection and analysis for this trial. We may not be able to maintain relationships with this or other CROs or with the clinical investigators and the clinical sites through the completion of all trial activities without delays in anticipated timing of trial activities or excessive expenditures. Our agreements place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in excessive expenditures for our clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. If these CROs, clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression. The conduct of any future clinical trials will likely also be conducted through the use of CROs and clinical research sites. The conduct, timing and cost of these trials will be subject to the same kinds of risks as discussed above. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from commercializing Korlym and our other product candidates abroad. We may seek to commercialize our products and product candidates in international markets with the help of one or more partners or on our own. Outside the United States, we can commercialize a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in many cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities, whose approval processes includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process, and, in some cases, additional risks. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Other than seeking and receiving Orphan Drug Designation in the EU, we have not taken any actions to obtain foreign approvals. We may not develop our product candidates in the clinic in order to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our product candidates in any foreign market. The “fast track” designation for the development program of mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. If a human medicine is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the medicine demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the sponsor of an IND may apply for FDA “fast track” designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications submitted by sponsors of product candidates in fast track development may qualify for expedited FDA review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the fast track designation does not assure any such qualification. Although we have obtained a fast track designation from the FDA for mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to applications considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may 28 Table of Contents withdraw our fast track designation at any time. If we lose our fast track designation, the approval process may be delayed. In addition, our fast track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures and does not increase the likelihood that mifepristone will receive regulatory approval for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. We face competition from companies with substantial financial, technical and marketing resources, which could limit our future revenues from the commercialization of mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression or for other indications. If approved for commercial use as a treatment for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, mifepristone will compete with established treatments, including ECT and combination medicinal therapy. Combination medicinal therapy consists of the use of antipsychotic and antidepressant medicines not currently approved for the treatment of psychotic depression. The antipsychotics are prescribed by physicians for off-label use to treat the psychotic features of psychotic depression, which is the clinical target of mifepristone. Antipsychotics include Abilify® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), Clozaril® (Novartis), Geodon® and Navane® (Pfizer), Haldol® (Ortho-McNeil) , Mellaril® (Mylan), Risperdal® (Janssen Pharmaceuticals), Seroquel® (AstraZeneca), Stelazine® and Thorazine® (GlaxoSmithKline) and Zyprexa® (Eli Lilly). Mifepristone may not compete effectively with these established treatments. We are aware of one clinical trial conducted by Organon, for a new chemical entity for the treatment of psychotic depression. Organon was the pharmaceutical division of Akzo Nobel, which was purchased by Schering Plough which was then subsequently acquired by Merck & Co. Organon’s new chemical entity is a GR-II antagonist; we believe that its commercial use would be covered by our patent. As of the time of filing of this report, we are not aware of any other public disclosures by any company, regarding the development of new product candidates to treat psychotic depression. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical companies, as well as specialized pharmaceutical firms, universities and public and private research institutions. Moreover, we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made. These competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may succeed with the development and commercialization of medicinal products that are superior to and more cost-effective than mifepristone. Many of our competitors and related private and public research and academic institutions have greater experience, more financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in developing human medicines, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and commercializing products. Accordingly, mifepristone may not be an effective competitor against established treatments and our present or potential competitors may succeed in developing medicinal products that are superior to mifepristone or render mifepristone obsolete or non-competitive. If we are unable to establish mifepristone as a superior and cost-effective treatment for the psychotic features of psychotic depression, or any future use, we may be unable to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond mifepristone are at a very early stage. If we fail to identify and develop additional uses for GR-II antagonists, we may be unable to market additional products. To develop additional potential sources of revenue, we believe that we must identify and develop additional product candidates. We own or have exclusively licensed issued U.S. patents covering the use of GR-II antagonists to treat psychotic depression, mild cognitive impairment, weight gain due to treatment with antipsychotic medication, stress disorders, early dementia, delirium, gastroesophageal reflux disease, Down’s Syndrome, catatonia and psychosis associated with cocaine addiction, and to increase the therapeutic response to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). In addition, we have seven U.S. method-of-use patent applications covering GR-II antagonists for the treatment of a number of other metabolic and psychiatric disorders, three U.S. 29 Table of Contents composition of matter patents covering specific GR-II antagonists, and a fourth pending U.S. composition of matter patent. We have also filed patent applications in all of the major international markets. We may not develop or continue to develop product candidates for any of the indications or compounds covered by our patents and patent applications. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials, so our product development efforts may not lead to commercially viable products. The use of GR-II antagonists may not be effective to treat these conditions or any other indications. In addition, we could discover that the use of GR-II antagonists in these patient populations has unacceptable side effects or is otherwise not safe. We may elect to enter into collaboration arrangements with respect to one or more of our product candidates. If we do enter into such an arrangement, we would be dependent on a collaborative partner for the success of the product candidates developed under the arrangement. Any future collaborative partner may fail to successfully develop or commercialize a product candidate under a collaborative arrangement. We only have significant clinical experience with mifepristone and we may determine that mifepristone is not desirable for uses other than for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and hyperglycemia secondary to hypercortisolism in adult patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome who have type 2 diabetes mellitus or glucose intolerance and have failed surgery or are not candidates for surgery. For example, we do not intend to develop mifepristone for mitigation of the weight gain associated with the use of Zyprexa, Risperdal or other atypical antipsychotics, even though we have reported positive results in the proof of concept studies described in Part I, Item 1, Business—Overview—Mifepristone Proof-of-Concept Studies for Other Metabolic Disorders. We are pursuing other GR-II antagonists for this use. The compounds developed pursuant to our early clinical, preclinical and discovery research programs, including CORT 108297, may fail to become viable product candidates in spite of the resources we may dedicate to the program. Even if product candidates are identified, we may abandon further development efforts before we reach clinical trials or after expending significant expense and time conducting clinical trials due to financial constraints, concerns over the safety or efficacy of the product candidates, manufacturing difficulties or other reasons. Moreover, governmental authorities may enact new legislation or regulations that could limit or restrict our development efforts. If we are unable to successfully discover and commercialize new uses for GR-II antagonists, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to pursue our product development and commercialization efforts. We depend substantially on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not have agreements with any of our executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us or employment insurance covering any of our key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and work for one of our competitors. The loss of these key individuals could result in competitive harm because we could experience delays in our product research, development and commercialization efforts without their expertise. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel, and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. We face intense competition for such personnel from numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations in the highly competitive northern California business area. Although we believe that we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to date, we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel in the future. The inability to attract and retain these personnel could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our potential products. 30 Table of Contents Rapid technological change could make our product candidates obsolete. Pharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change and we expect that they will continue to do so. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any products and processes that we develop may become obsolete or uneconomical before we recover any or all expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our product candidates obsolete or uneconomical, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster or other similar events could cause damage to our own or our manufacturers’ facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Because our executive offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area and some of our current manufacturers are located in earthquake-prone areas, our business is vulnerable to damage from various types of disasters or other similarly disruptive events, including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss and communications failures. In addition, political considerations relating to mifepristone may put us and our manufacturers at increased risk for terrorist attacks, protests or other disruptive events. If any disaster or other similar event were to occur, we may not be able to operate our business and our manufacturers may not be able to produce our product candidates. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover, and our insurance policies may exclude coverage for, our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Risks Related to Our Capital Needs and Financial Results We will need additional capital in order to complete the development and commercialization of mifepristone and our other proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists. Additional capital may not be available to us at all or on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our business. We may have to perform more clinical trials, in addition to our on-going Phase 3 trial, prior to submitting an NDA for mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. If so, we may need to raise additional funds to complete the development of mifepristone for that indication. In addition, we may need to raise additional funds for the commercialization of Korlym, should the medicine’s commercialization require more funds than we currently plan, and to continue and expand the development of our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists in various indications. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to fund our operations through the end of 2012. However, our expectations are based on our ability to commercialize Korlym successfully, as well as our currently planned clinical development and research programs for mifepristone and for certain of our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists, which may change as a result of many factors, including: • the amount and timing of revenues from the commercialization of Korlym; • the pace at which physicians adopt Korlym as a treatment; • the willingness of insurance companies, the government and other third-party payors to provide coverage for Korlym at reasonable rates; • changes in the reimbursement policies of third-party insurance companies or government agencies; • the costs, timing of site selection and enrollment of our clinical trials; • the results of our research efforts and clinical trials; • the need to perform additional clinical trials and other supportive studies; • the need to establish second sources for the manufacture of Korlym API and tablets; 31 Table of Contents • the timing of the submission of an NDA to the FDA, the acceptance of the filing and approval of an NDA by the FDA to market mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression; • the timing of commercialization of mifepristone for the treatment of psychotic depression. • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including announcements of claims of infringement, interference or litigation against us or our licensors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in our growth rates; and • changes in our research development plans for our proprietary, selective GR-II antagonists. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Even though we have raised funds a number of times in the past, market and economic conditions may make it difficult for us to raise any or sufficient additional capital. The sales of common stock and warrants and the exercises of warrants have been dilutive to stockholders and any exercise of outstanding warrants and additional equity financing will cause further dilution to stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we obtain funds through collaborations with others, these arrangements may be on unfavorable terms or may require us to relinquish certain rights to Korlym, our technologies or product candidates, which we would otherwise seek to develop on our own. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or we may be required to discontinue operations. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for at least the next few years. We are a development stage company with no current source of product revenue. We have a limited history of operations and have focused primarily on clinical trials. We are beginning to commercialize Korlym and, if the outcome of our clinical trials supports it, we plan to seek FDA regulatory clearance to market mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression. Historically, we have funded our operations primarily from the sale of our equity securities. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $208.6 million. We do not know when or if we will generate product revenue. Subject to our ability to raise additional funds, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with the clinical trials and other development activities for mifepristone for the psychotic features of psychotic depression and for other product candidates. We expect to incur significant expenses related to commercializing Korlym. As a result, we expect that our losses will increase at least until Korlym is commercially available to patients and generating material amounts of revenue. We are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable. The committed equity financing facility (CEFF) that we entered into with Kingsbridge in March 2008 may not be available to us at certain times, may generate a lower level of funding than we anticipate, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge, and will result in dilution to our stockholders. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock, currently set at $1.50 per share, and the effectiveness and continued effectiveness of the required resale registration statements. The actual amount of funds that can be raised under the CEFF will be dependent on the number of shares actually sold under the agreement and the market value of our stock during the pricing periods of each sale. 32 Table of Contents In June 2008, the SEC declared effective our registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of approximately 3.6 million of the shares issuable under the CEFF and the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrant issued to Kingsbridge. This registration statement covers approximately 37% of the 9.6 million shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to the CEFF and all of the 330,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant issued to Kingsbridge. We intend to file an additional registration statement covering the resale of the remaining shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to the CEFF 60 days after Kingsbridge and its affiliates have resold substantially all of the securities covered by this initial registration statement; therefore, the timing of the submission of this subsequent registration statement is uncertain. This subsequent registration statement may be subject to review and comment by the staff of the SEC, and will require the consent of our independent registered public accounting firm. We cannot assure you that this registration statement will be declared effective or, if declared effective, that it will remain continuously effective thereafter. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of 10 days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access alternative capital on favorable terms or at all. We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the resale registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares thereunder. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the resale registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our agreement with Kingsbridge, then we may be required to make a payment to Kingsbridge or to issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of the payment. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. Any shares that we may issue to Kingsbridge under the CEFF will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. For each draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock during the eight-day trading period following the issuance of the draw down notice. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our share price. We may not be able to pursue all of our product research and development opportunities if we are unable to secure adequate funding for these programs. The costs required to start or continue many of the programs that our intellectual property allow us to consider for further development are collectively greater than the funds currently available to us. For example, we have successfully discovered three series of compounds that are selective GR-II antagonists but, unlike mifepristone, do not appear to block the progesterone receptor. Further development of these proprietary compounds or any further development stemming from our method-of-use patents may be delayed or cancelled if we determine that such development may jeopardize our ability to complete the commercialization of Korlym or to complete the clinical development of mifepristone for the treatment of psychotic depression. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In the United States and globally, market and economic conditions have been volatile over the past few years, with significantly tighter credit conditions in the markets in which we conduct our operations. The U.S. and global economies have experienced a recession and face continued concerns about the systemic impact of adverse economic conditions, such as unstable global financial markets, adverse effects on the cost and availability of capital, high corporate, consumer and governmental debt levels and high unemployment. Concern 33 Table of Contents about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically, has led and may again lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide credit to businesses. Renewed or increased turbulence in the global markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, our access to funds under our CEFF or any credit facility into which we may enter depends on the ability of the counterparties to such facilities to meet their funding commitments to us. We cannot assure you that long-term disruptions in the global economy and the return of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions will not have an adverse effect on such counterparties. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to continue operating our business and are unable to borrow funds, access our CEFF or raise equity or debt capital, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, curtailing clinical or drug development activity, or limiting our commercial efforts, product manufacturing or sales and marketing support, which would have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If we acquire other GR-II antagonists or other technologies or potential products, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire other GR-II antagonists, particularly GR-II antagonists that do not terminate pregnancy. We may also be able to acquire other technologies or potential products that are complementary to our operating plan. We currently have no commitments, agreements or plans for any acquisitions. The process of acquiring rights to another GR-II antagonist or any other potential product or technology may result in unforeseen difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. In addition, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquired potential product or technology. Future acquisitions could dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest in us and could cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization or other expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property If Korlym or future product candidates conflict with the patents of others or if we become involved in other intellectual property disputes, we may have to engage in costly litigation or obtain a license and we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for the use of mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression and other potential uses of GR-II antagonists. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our intellectual property and erode our competitive advantage. To date, we own nine issued U.S. method of use patents and have exclusively licensed three issued U.S. method of use patents. We have seven U.S. method of use patent applications pending for GR-II antagonists. We own three composition of matter patents and have one composition of matter patent application pending. We have applied, and will continue to apply, for patents covering our product candidates as we deem appropriate. We have also filed, where we deemed appropriate, foreign patent applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications. We have exclusively licensed three issued U.S. patents from Stanford University for the use of GR-II antagonists in the treatment of psychotic major depression, which is commonly referred to as psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis and early dementia, including early Alzheimer’s disease. We bear the costs of protecting and defending the rights to these patents. In order to maintain the exclusive license to these 34 Table of Contents patents until their expiration, we are obligated to make milestone and royalty payments to Stanford University. We are currently in compliance with our obligations under this agreement. If we become noncompliant, we may lose the right to commercialize mifepristone for the treatment of psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis and early dementia and our business would be materially harmed. In addition, if Stanford University were to terminate our mifepristone license due to breach of the license on our part, we would not be able to commercialize mifepristone for the treatment of the psychotic features of psychotic depression, cocaine-induced psychosis or early dementia. Our patent applications and patents licensed or issued to us may be challenged by third parties and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. For example, in 2004, Akzo Nobel, which was subsequently acquired by Schering Plough which was then subsequently acquired by Merck & Co., filed an observation challenging the claims of our exclusively licensed European patent application with claims directed to psychotic depression. In this instance, the patent later issued and, in 2007, we received notice that there will be no opposition proceedings in Europe in regard to this patent. Our presently pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. For example, the arguments presented by Akzo Nobel could be raised in the United States either before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in a court of law. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued to us, or which may be issued to us in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our competitors may produce competing products based on our technology, which would impair our ability to compete. If a third party were successful in asserting an infringement claim against us, we could be forced to pay damages and prevented from developing, manufacturing or marketing our potential products. We do not have liability insurance for patent infringements. A third party could require us to obtain a license to continue to use their intellectual property, and we may not be able to do so on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We believe that significant litigation will continue in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is expensive and diverts management’s attention from other business. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, our ability to compete in the market could be diminished. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, laws protecting trade secrets and security measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Nevertheless, these measures may not adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If they do not adequately protect our rights, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could diminish our ability to compete in the market. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our product candidates may breach their agreements with us regarding our trade secrets and other proprietary information, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through means not currently foreseen. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative products that are equal or superior to our product candidates without infringing on any of our proprietary information or trade secrets. 35 Table of Contents Our licensed patent covering the use of mifepristone to treat psychotic depression is a method of use patent rather than a composition of matter patent, which may make it more difficult for us to prove patent infringement if physicians prescribe another manufacturer’s mifepristone for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome or psychotic depression or if patients acquire mifepristone from other sources, such as the internet or black market. We have an exclusive license from Stanford University to a patent covering the use of GR-II antagonists, including mifepristone, for the treatment of psychotic depression. A method of use patent covers only a specified use of a particular compound, not a particular composition of matter. Because none of our issued patents covers the composition of mifepristone, we cannot prevent others from commercializing mifepristone in indications not covered by our method of use patents. If others receive approval to manufacture and market mifepristone or any other GR-II antagonist, physicians could prescribe mifepristone or any other GR-II antagonist for patients with psychotic depression instead of mifepristone. Although any such “off-label” use would violate our licensed patent, effectively monitoring compliance with our licensed patent may be difficult and costly. In addition, if others develop a treatment for the psychotic features of psychotic depression that works through a mechanism which does not involve the GR-II receptor, physicians could prescribe that treatment instead of mifepristone. In addition, we cannot be assured that patients will not obtain mifepristone from other sources. As with other pharmaceutical products, patients may be able to purchase mifepristone through the internet or black market. Mifepristone is also sold in the United States by Danco Laboratories for the termination of early pregnancy. While distribution is limited to a single dose provided in the physician’s office and covered by other restrictions, we cannot be certain that Cushing’s syndrome patients will not be able to obtain mifepristone from this source or others, should another company receive approval to market mifepristone for another indication. Risks Related to Our Stock The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the limited number of shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates or factors influencing the stock market and opportunities for sale at any given time may be limited. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will exist at any time. Holders of our common stock may not be able to sell shares quickly or at the market price if trading in our common stock is not active. During the 52-week period ended March 2, 2012, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 323,000 shares and the intra-day sales prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market has ranged from $2.50 to $5.07. As of March 2, 2012, our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 40% of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the pace of market acceptance of Korlym or the timing and level of reimbursement attained; • our cash and short-term investment position; • actual or anticipated timing and results of our clinical trials; • actual or anticipated regulatory approvals of our product candidates or of competing products; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates or our competitors’ products; • changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs or our competitors’ potential development programs; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, including potential product returns and timing of revenue recognition; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; 36 Table of Contents • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • general market and economic conditions, including those seen as a result of the recent worldwide financial credit crisis; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • developments concerning collaborations; • trading volume of our common stock; • limited number of shares of our common stock held by our non-affiliates; • maintaining compliance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange on which we are listed; • announcement of, or expectation of, additional financing efforts; and • purchases or sales of our common stock by us, our officers, directors or our stockholders. In addition, the stock market in general, the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources. Securities analysts may not continue to provide or initiate coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. Securities analysts currently covering our common stock may discontinue research coverage. Additional securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. A lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly and significantly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory analysts and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies such as ours with smaller market capitalizations to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on our market price. 37 Table of Contents A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, subject to applicable volume and other resale restrictions. We may be required to pay significant amounts if we are not able to meet our obligations under our outstanding registration rights agreements. The registration rights agreement covering the approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock issued in a private offering in March 2008 and an additional approximately 4.5 million shares of common stock underlying warrants issued in connection with the offering provided that if we failed to file or cause to be declared effective the registration statement covering the resale of these shares prior to specified deadlines, or failed to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement (subject to limited permissible suspension periods), we would be required to pay the holders of such shares and warrants liquidated damages at the rate of 1% of the purchase price of these shares and warrants per month, up to a total of 10%. The registration statement covering the resale of the shares and shares underlying the warrants sold in this transaction was declared effective by the SEC in November 2008. Since this registration statement was not declared effective within the time frame specified in the registration rights agreement, we became obligated to pay liquidated damages of approximately $1.3 million in 2008 to the investors in this financing. As noted above, if we fail to maintain the effectiveness of this registration statement, we may be obligated to pay additional liquidated damage amounts in the future. See the discussion above under “Risks Related to our Capital Needs and Financial Results” regarding risks associated with the CEFF, including the risks regarding registration rights under that agreement. If we are required to pay significant amounts under these or future registration rights agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to finance our operations. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders, acting as a group, will be able to significantly influence corporate actions. As of March 2, 2012, our officers, directors and principal stockholders control approximately 40% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and may prevent or delay a change in control. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages to owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Changes in laws and regulations may result in increased costs to us, which may harm our financial results. New laws and regulations, as well as changes to existing laws and regulations, affecting public companies, including the provisions of the PPACA requiring the reporting of aggregate spending related to health care professionals, the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC and by The Nasdaq Capital Market have and will likely continue to result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. We are investing resources to comply with evolving laws and regulations, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, new rules and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits 38 Table of Contents and coverage or incur higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, or our board committees, or as executive officers. At present, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs related to new rules and regulations or the timing of such costs. Compliance with public company obligations, including the securities laws and regulations, is costly and requires significant management resources, and we may fail to comply. We are a small company with limited resources. The federal securities laws and regulations, including the corporate governance and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, impose complex and continually changing regulatory requirements on our operations and reporting. These requirements impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members, and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, principal financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal compliance costs, increase the difficulty and expense in obtaining director and officer liability insurance, and make it harder for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors and/or qualified executive officers. Such developments could harm our results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations. In addition, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This requirement first applied to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. This same legislation also requires that the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement first applied to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply with these requirements by applicable deadlines and to maintain compliance in future years. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting in future years or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of future year ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our accounting policies or operating practices. Accounting methods and policies for business and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies are subject to continual review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted a revised standard related to stock-based compensation. This standard, which we adopted in 2006, requires the recording of expense for stock options granted using fair value-based measurements. As a result, our operating expenses have increased and are likely to continue to increase. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. Because we are now required to expense stock options using fair value-based measurements, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements. Any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. 39 Table of Contents If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. If we are unable to meet any of the Nasdaq listing requirements in the future, including, for example, if the closing bid price for our common stock is below $1 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, the Nasdaq Capital Market staff could determine to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult, even if an acquisition or a management change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. Some of these provisions divide our board into three classes with only a portion of our directors subject to election at each annual meeting, allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders, require advance notification of stockholder proposals and nominations of candidates for election as directors and prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent. In addition, a supermajority vote of stockholders is required to amend our bylaws. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President or the Board of Directors and that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors. These provisions may prevent or delay a change in our Board of Directors or our management, which is appointed by our Board of Directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 