Risk Factors - LPSC Regulation," - "Fuel Costs," and - "FERC Regulation" and Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Regulatory Matters - Retail Rates of Cleco Power." Franchises Cleco Power operates under nonexclusive franchise rights granted by governmental units, such as municipalities and parishes (counties), and enforced by state regulation. These franchises are for fixed terms, which may vary from 10 years to 50 years or more. In the past, Cleco Power has been substantially successful in the timely renewal of franchises as each reached the end of its term. In August 2005, a municipality's council published a RFP to provide electric service to the city and its approximately 5,200 customers. Cleco Power was the only utility company that met the proposal deadline. Cleco Power began negotiations with the municipality in November 2005, and a fully executed franchise agreement is expected in the first quarter of 2006. This new agreement will replace Cleco Power's existing agreement which expires in 2008. Cleco Power's next municipal franchise expires in 2010. Also in August 2005, a competing electric utility entered into an agreement with a municipality so that the utility could continue to serve its existing customers in the newly annexed area. However, Cleco Power has the right to serve any new customers inside the city limits and newly annexed customers. In 2003, the town of Franklinton, which had approximately 1,850 customers, elected not to renew its franchise with Cleco Power. In May 2005, pursuant to an LPSC order, Cleco Power completed the sale of the Franklinton distribution assets for $2.3 million and transferred service to a competing cooperative selected by Franklinton. Competing power cooperatives actively are attempting to gain dual franchises in several municipalities currently served by Cleco Power. A dual franchise arrangement would limit a new provider from providing service to Cleco Power's existing customers; however, the new power provider could compete with Cleco Power for customers in the city's newly annexed areas. In March 2005, one such cooperative did obtain a limited dual franchise. In December 2005, a different municipality's council passed an ordinance which allowed a cooperative to compete with Cleco Power in newly annexed areas. The granting of a dual municipal franchise to a competing power cooperative does not reduce current Cleco Power revenue, since existing customers do not have an option to change electric service providers under existing LPSC regulations. However, it could reduce future customer and load growth. The LPSC is evaluating how franchise fees are billed by utilities. Cleco Power historically has included franchise fees in its cost of service in establishing base rates. The LPSC has informally considered whether these franchise fees should be billed as separate line items only to the municipal customers 12 affected, rather than included in base rates. Management does not believe this billing issue will adversely affect Cleco Power. A number of parishes have attempted in recent years to impose franchise fees on retail revenue earned within the unincorporated areas Cleco Power serves. If the parishes are ultimately successful, Cleco Power believes that the new franchise tax paid to the parishes will be passed on to the affected customers and will not reduce Cleco Power's earnings. Industry Developments For information on industry developments, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Market Restructuring." Wholesale Electric Competition For a discussion of wholesale electric competition, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Market Restructuring - Wholesale Electric Markets." Retail Electric Competition For a discussion of retail electric competition, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Market Restructuring - Retail Electric Markets." Legislative and Regulatory Changes and Matters Various federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are considering a number of issues that could shape the future of the electric utility industry. Such issues include, among others: interpretation of the National Energy Policy Act of 2005; deregulation of retail electricity sales; the ability of electric utilities to recover stranded costs; the unbundling of vertically integrated electric utility companies into separate business segments or companies (e.g., generation, transmission, distribution, and retail energy service); the role of electric utilities, independent power producers and competitive bidding in the purchase, construction and operation of new generating capacity; the pricing of transmission service on an electric utility's transmission system; FERC's assessment of market power and utilities' ability to buy generation assets; mandatory transmission reliability standards; the authority of the FERC to exercise power of eminent domain; increasing requirements for renewable energy sources; comprehensive multi-emissions environmental legislation; the organization of and participation in RTOs and ICTs; and FERC's increased ability to impose financial penalties. The Registrants are unable, at this time, to predict the outcome of such issues or effects on their financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For information on certain regulatory matters and regulatory accounting affecting Cleco, see Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Regulatory Matters." ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Environmental Quality Cleco is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in substantial fines and penalties. Cleco has obtained all environmental permits necessary for its operations, and management believes Cleco is in substantial compliance with these permits, as well as all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Environmental requirements continue to increase as a result of new legislation, administrative actions, and judicial interpretations. Therefore, the future effects of existing and potential requirements are difficult to determine. Cleco's capital expenditures related to environmental compliance were $1.8 million during 2005 and are estimated to total $4.5 million in 2006. The following table lists capital expenditures for environmental matters by subsidiary. SUBSIDIARY (THOUSANDS) ENVIRONMENTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES FOR 2005 PROJECTED ENVIRONMENTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES FOR 2006 Cleco Power $ 1,334 $ 4,321 Evangeline 422 - Acadia 15 136(1) Total $ 1,771 $ 4,457 (1) Represents APH's 50% portion of Acadia The increase in projected environmental capital expenditures at Cleco Power from 2005 to 2006 primarily relates to the planned installation of new low NOx burners at the Dolet Hills Power Station. The installation is expected to begin in 2006 and to be completed in early 2007. Air Quality The state of Louisiana regulates air emissions from each of Cleco's generating units through the Air Quality regulations of the LDEQ. In addition, the LDEQ implements certain programs initially established by the EPA. The LDEQ establishes standards of performance or requires permits for certain generating units in Louisiana. All of Cleco's generating units are subject to these requirements. The Clean Air Act established a regulatory program to address the effects of acid rain and imposed restrictions on SO2 emissions from certain generating units. The Clean Air Act requires these generating stations to own a regulatory "allowance" for each ton of SO2 emitted beginning in the year 2000. The EPA allocates a set number of allowances to each 13 affected unit based on its historic emissions. As of December 31, 2005, Cleco Power and Midstream had sufficient allowances for 2005 operations and expect to have sufficient allowances for 2006 operations. The Clean Air Act required the EPA to revise NOx emission limits for existing coal-fired boilers. In November 1996, the EPA finalized rules lowering the NOx emission rate for certain boilers, including Rodemacher Unit 2 and Dolet Hills. The rules also allowed an "early elect" option to achieve compliance with a less restrictive NOx limit beginning no later than January 1, 1997. Cleco Power exercised this option in December 1996. Early election protects Cleco Power from any further reductions in the NOx permitted emission rate until 2008. Rodemacher Unit 2 and Dolet Hills have been in compliance with the NOx early election limits since their inception and are expected to continue to be in compliance in 2006. Cleco Power expects to install new low NOx burners at Dolet Hills by early 2007 at a projected cost of $5.9 million. Rodemacher Unit 2 is anticipated to remain in compliance with the reduced 2008 Acid Rain NOx limits. Significant future reductions in NOx emission limits may require other capital improvements at one or both of the units. NOx emissions from the Evangeline and Acadia generating units are within EPA limits, as these units use a modern turbine technology and selective catalytic reduction technology that reduces NOx emissions to minimal levels. On March 10, 2005, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) was signed. CAIR covers 28 eastern states, including Louisiana, and provides a federal framework requiring states to reduce emissions of SO2 and NOx. The EPA anticipates that the states will achieve this primarily by reducing emissions from the power generation sector. Louisiana must evaluate the provisions of CAIR and make changes to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) to incorporate these requirements within 18 months. Cleco is participating with other stakeholders on LDEQ's implementation of the federal requirements and is evaluating potential compliance strategies to meet the emission reductions contemplated by these regulations. The installation of new low NOx burners at Dolet Hills under the Clean Air Act Acid Rain provisions is expected to be an integral part of meeting the CAIR NOx reduction provisions. Likewise, the installation of new low NOx burners is being planned for Rodemacher Unit 2 in early 2009 at a projected cost of $4.0 million. These strategies may include additional emission controls, purchase of allowances, or fuel changes. On March 15, 2005, the EPA issued final rules regarding mercury emissions from electric utility boilers. The Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) established "standards of performance" limiting mercury emissions from new and existing coal-fired power plants and created a market-based cap-and-trade program. Louisiana must evaluate the provisions of CAMR and make changes to the SIP by September 2006 to incorporate these requirements. Cleco is participating with other stakeholders on LDEQ's implementation of the federal requirements and is evaluating potential compliance strategies to meet the emission reductions contemplated by these regulations. These strategies may include additional emission controls, purchase of allowances, or fuel changes. Multi-pollutant legislation currently is being considered by Congress. Cleco supports the concept of a comprehensive national strategy to reduce emissions of multiple pollutants from electric utilities. Cleco will continue to monitor the development of new legislative and regulatory requirements and their potential impacts. While it is unknown at this time what the final outcome of these regulations will be, any capital and operating costs of additional pollution control equipment that may be required could materially adversely affect future results of operations, cash flows, and possibly financial condition, unless such costs could be recovered through regulated rates and/or future market prices for energy. In February 2005, Cleco Power received notices from the EPA requesting information relating to the Rodemacher and Dolet Hills Power Stations. The apparent purpose of the investigation is to determine whether Cleco Power has complied with New Source Review and New Source Performance Standards requirements under the Clean Air Act in connection with capital expenditures, modifications, or operational changes made at these facilities. Cleco Power has completed its response to the initial data request. It is unknown at this time whether the EPA will take further action as a result of the information provided by Cleco Power and if any such action would have a material adverse impact on the Registrants' financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Water Quality Cleco has received from the EPA and LDEQ permits required under the Clean Water Act for water discharges from its five generating stations. Water discharge permits have fixed dates of expiration, and Cleco applies for renewal of these permits within the applicable time periods. The Clean Water Act contains provisions requiring the EPA to evaluate all bodies of water within its jurisdiction to determine if they meet water quality standards and to bring non-compliant bodies of water into compliance. In October 1999, the EPA received a federal court order to develop and implement Total Maximum Daily Loading (TMDL) of certain pollutants for all impacted streams in Louisiana. Limits may be imposed in the future by the EPA through the permit renewal process that could potentially impact future discharges from Cleco's facilities. In July 2005, the EPA issued the final mercury TMDL for Louisiana's coastal bays and gulf waters. Based upon discussions with the LDEQ, Cleco does not anticipate any material impact to its operations from the mercury TMDL. Another new regulatory program, Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, intends to minimize adverse environmental impacts to all aquatic species due to water intake structures. These regulations establish requirements applicable to the location, design, construction, and capacity of cooling water intake structures and only apply to existing facilities. Cleco anticipates that any new requirements will be established as the facilities go through the water discharge permit renewal process. The initial studies required will be conducted in 14 2006, and any required capital improvements will occur after those studies are completed. Any capital improvement costs are anticipated to be between $3.0 million and $5.0 million. Solid Waste Disposal The Solid Waste Division of the LDEQ has adopted a permitting system for the management and disposal of solid waste generated by power stations. Cleco has received all required permits from the LDEQ for the on-site disposal of solid waste from its generating stations. Cleco is in the process of renewing the solid waste permits for the Rodemacher and Dolet Hills solid waste units and upgrading them according to the Solid Waste Regulations. These upgrades are not expected to result in substantial costs. Hazardous Waste Generation Cleco produces certain wastes that are classified as hazardous at its five generating stations and at other locations. Cleco does not treat, store long-term, or dispose of these wastes on-site; therefore, no permits are required. All hazardous wastes produced by Cleco are disposed of at federally permitted hazardous waste disposal sites. Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) The TSCA directs the EPA to regulate the marketing, disposal, manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce, and use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Cleco may continue to operate equipment containing PCBs under the TSCA. Once the equipment reaches the end of its usefulness, the EPA regulates handling and disposal of the equipment and fluids containing PCBs. Within these regulations, the handling and disposal is allowed only through EPA approved and permitted facilities. In October 2003, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) notified Cleco Power that it had been identified as a PRP for the SESCO facility in San Angelo, Texas. The facility operated as a transformer repair and recycling facility from the 1930s until 2003, and both soil and groundwater contamination exist at the site and in surrounding areas. Based on initial available information, Cleco Power accrued a minimal amount for its potential liability in November 2003. The investigation of SESCO's historical records was completed in 2005, and Cleco Power was determined to be a de minimis party. On February 15, 2006, Cleco Power executed a settlement agreement with the SESCO site working group members which required the payment of cash in exchange for a release from responsibility for investigation and cleanup costs associated with the SESCO facility and a covenant not to sue by each SESCO site working group member and the State of Texas. The release and covenant not to sue can only be cancelled if Cleco Power is found to have contributed significantly more transformers to the SESCO facility than current documentation indicates. However, both Cleco Power and the SESCO site working group have completed substantial due diligence and management believes it is unlikely that Cleco Power will be found to have contributed significantly more transformers. Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) The TRI requires an annual report from industrial facilities on about 650 substances that they release into air, water, and land. The TRI ranks companies based on how much of a particular substance they release on a state and parish (county) level. Annual reports are due to the EPA on July 1 following the reporting year-end. Cleco has submitted timely TRI reports on its activities, and the TRI rankings are available to the public. The rankings do not result in any federal or state penalties. Management is aware of the potential adverse public perceptions and monitors the TRI process. Electric and Magnetic Fields (EMFs) The possibility that exposure to EMFs emanating from electric power lines, household appliances, and other electric devices may result in adverse health effects or damage to the environment has been a subject of some public attention. Cleco Power funds scientific research on EMFs through various organizations. To date, there are no definitive results, but research is continuing. Lawsuits alleging that the presence of electric power transmission and distribution lines has an adverse effect on health and/or property values have arisen in several states. Cleco Power is not a party in any lawsuits related to EMFs. 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Rodemacher Unit 3 Construction Cleco Power is exposed to certain risks related to the design, construction and operation of Rodemacher Unit 3. This project has technology risk, fuel supply risk and general contractor and certain material subcontractor performance risk, each of which could have a material adverse impact on Cleco Power's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Rodemacher Unit 3 is designed to utilize circulating fluidized-bed (CFB) generating technology and will be 10% larger than any other CFB unit in operation today. Cleco Power engaged Shaw Constructors, Inc. (Shaw) under an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract. Shaw is liable for liquidated damages due to their non-performance in the EPC; however, Cleco Power's ability to collect these damages for breach is contingent on the demonstration of such damages and on Shaw's financial abilities. Failure by Shaw to perform its obligations under the EPC contract could have a material adverse impact on the plant's efficiency, in-service date, and final cost. The EPC does not protect Cleco Power against potential force majeure events or design/specification oversight which may result in increased and potentially unrecoverable costs to Cleco Power. Although Cleco Power currently delivers coal via rail to the Rodemacher facility, plans are for Rodemacher Unit 3 to primarily use petroleum coke, which can be most economically delivered via barges on the Mississippi and Red Rivers, requiring a conveyor system which has to cross a major interstate highway. Cleco Power does not have experience transporting fuel by barge. Calpine Bankruptcy CES's bankruptcy and failure to perform its obligations under the Calpine Tolling Agreements will likely have a material adverse impact on Cleco's results of operations and cash flows. A substantial portion of Midstream's earnings and cash flow is derived from the Calpine Tolling Agreements with CES. On December 20, 2005, the Calpine Debtors filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the Calpine Debtors Bankruptcy Court, and on December 21, 2005, the Calpine Debtors filed a motion with the court seeking to reject the Calpine Tolling Agreements. The issue was referred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York where on January 27, 2006, a federal judge dismissed the Calpine Debtors' motion to reject eight power supply contracts, including the Calpine Tolling Agreements. The federal judge ruled that the FERC, not the bankruptcy court, has exclusive jurisdiction over the disposition of the energy contracts. Calpine has appealed this ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. CES has failed to pay pre-petition ($3.5 million) and post-petition ($2.0 million and $5.4 million as of December 31, 2005, and January 31, 2006, respectively) amounts under the Calpine Tolling Agreements. Payments by CES under the Calpine Tolling Agreements are Acadia's sole source of revenue, and continued failure by CES to pay the amounts due under the Calpine Tolling Agreements will result in operating losses and reduced cash flow. If the Calpine Tolling Agreements are rejected, Acadia would need to arrange for replacement customers for its capacity in order to generate revenue, and there is no assurance that any such customers could be obtained. Moreover, since current market conditions are not as favorable as the terms of the Calpine Tolling Agreements, Acadia's results of operations and cash flows likely would be significantly reduced. A $14.0 million priority distribution to APH was established when CES entered into the second Acadia tolling agreement in May 2003. As part of the August 2005 restructuring of the Calpine Tolling Agreements, APH is entitled to receive guaranteed cash payments from CES through 2022. In the event of a CES default, these payments are guaranteed by Calpine Acadia Holdings (CAH) and Acadia. In the event CES defaults in making such payments and CAH defaults under its guarantee, APH will receive guaranteed and priority annual cash payments from Acadia totaling $19.0 million through 2011 and $21.0 million thereafter through 2022. Acadia will make these annual cash payments to APH only when cash is available, and any unpaid amounts will accumulate to APH. Regardless of whether the payments are made to APH, Acadia must continue to perform its operational obligations under the Calpine Tolling Agreements until the bankruptcy or other litigation process allows CES to reject the Calpine Tolling Agreements. Although Cleco has not been required to record an impairment with respect to Acadia as a result of the Calpine bankruptcy proceedings, future events such as a decline in the anticipated market value of energy in relation to natural gas values could cause Acadia's carrying value to exceed its market value, requiring an impairment charge. Such a charge could adversely affect Cleco's financial condition by reducing consolidated common shareholders' equity, could cause Cleco to incur increased interest cost on future debt issuances, and could cause an adverse change in Cleco's credit ratings . Storm Damage Costs The LPSC may reduce the amount recoverable by Cleco Power in respect of storm restoration costs. The LPSC has approved interim revenue relief associated with the recovery of storm restoration costs from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The interim rate increase becomes effective upon the beginning of physical construction for Rodemacher Unit 3 (Phase I) and remains in effect until the LPSC completes a review to verify and approve the total amount of storm restoration costs to be recovered (Phase II). The LPSC's decision to grant revenue relief to Cleco Power for storm restoration costs becomes final and non-appealable 45 days after the issuance of the executed order from the LPSC. Based upon the results of the Phase II review of storm restoration costs, expected to be completed in late 2006, the 16 LPSC could decrease the amount Cleco Power could recover. In addition, someone could request a rehearing of or appeal the interim relief or the final relief approved by the LPSC. A change made in Phase II by the LPSC resulting in a delay in receipt of or timing of any revenue relief associated with the recovery of the storm restoration costs from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita or any request for rehearing or appeal of any revenue relief could have a material adverse impact on Cleco and Cleco Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows compared to the recovery amounts authorized by the LPSC in Phase I. LPSC Regulation If Cleco Power is unable to extend the current RSP or if the LPSC makes modifications to Cleco Power's retail rates subsequent to September 2006, the earnings of Cleco Power could be reduced. Cleco Power's retail rates for residential, commercial, and industrial customers and other retail sales are regulated by the LPSC. On February 22, 2006, the LPSC required that effective immediately, any Cleco Power earnings above the current 12.25% allowed return on equity be credited against outstanding Hurricanes Katrina and Rita storm restoration costs, rather than being shared 50/50 between shareholders and customers. Previously, Cleco Power was allowed to realize a regulatory return on equity of up to 12.625% through September 30, 2006, with returns above that level being refunded to customers in the form of billing credits. On December 19, 2005, Cleco Power filed an application with the LPSC to extend the current RSP through the expected fourth quarter of 2009 in-service date of the proposed Rodemacher Unit 3 power plant. Preliminary testimony filed by the LPSC's independent consultant recommended that the LPSC modify the current RSP beginning on October 1, 2006 decreasing the allowed return on equity that can be realized by Cleco Power to 11.65%. This assumes a return on equity of 11.25%, with any earnings between 11.25% and 12.25% shared between shareholders and customers in a 40/60 ratio, respectively, and all earnings over 12.25% returned to customers. There is no assurance that the LPSC will approve this recommendation and grant Cleco Power this extension. Upon expiration of the current RSP, the LPSC could choose to approve a lower rate of return for Cleco Power, which would reduce Cleco Power's base revenue and profitability and could have a material adverse impact on Cleco Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Fuel Costs The LPSC conducts fuel audits that could result in Cleco Power making substantial refunds of previously recorded revenue. Generally, fuel and purchased power expenses are recovered through the LPSC-established fuel adjustment clause, which enables Cleco Power to pass on to its customers substantially all such charges. Recovery of fuel adjustment clause costs is subject to refund until monthly approval is received from the LPSC; however, all amounts are subject to a periodic fuel audit by the LPSC. The most recent audit by the LPSC covered 2001 and 2002 and resulted in a refund of $16.0 million to Cleco Power's retail customers. This refund was credited against customer bills in the first quarter of 2005. In November 2005, due to the increased price of natural gas and its effect on the cost of generating fuel and purchased power, the LPSC ordered a review of each investor-owned utility's fuel and purchased power costs incurred during the period January 1, 2005, through October 31, 2005. Cleco Power could be required to make a substantial refund of previously recorded revenue as a result of this review or any future LPSC audits. Furthermore, Cleco's cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. Rodemacher Unit 3 CCN A successful request for rehearing or appeal of Cleco Power's CCN could have a material adverse impact on Cleco Power's financial condition and cash flows. On February 22, 2006, the LPSC approved Cleco Power's CCN to construct, own, and operate Rodemacher Unit 3. The LPSC's decision to grant Cleco's CCN request will become final and non-appealable 45 days after the issuance of the executed order from the LPSC. Without adequate ratemaking treatment and assurances of recovery for Rodemacher Unit 3 from the LPSC, management believes it would be difficult for Cleco Power to construct the plant while maintaining its credit rating. Purchased Power Nonperformance of Cleco Power's power purchase agreements and transmission constraints could have a material adverse impact on Cleco Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Cleco Power does not supply all of its customers' power requirements from the generation facilities it owns and must purchase additional energy and capacity from the wholesale power market. During 2005, Cleco Power met approximately 49% of its energy needs with purchased power. Two power purchase agreements with Williams and CES provided approximately 29.6% of Cleco Power's capacity needs in 2005. On January 1, 2006, Cleco Power began its four-year, 500-MW contract with Williams and its one-year, 200-MW contract with CES. If Williams and CES do not perform under their respective contracts, Cleco Power would have to replace these supply sources with alternate market options, which may not be on as favorable terms and conditions and could increase the ultimate cost of power to its customers. Because of Cleco Power's location on the transmission grid, Cleco Power relies on two main suppliers of electric transmission when accessing external power markets. At times, constraints limit the amount of purchased power these transmission providers can deliver into Cleco Power's service territory. The Williams and CES contracts, as well as spot market power purchases, may be affected by these 17 transmission constraints. If the amount of purchased power actually delivered into Cleco were less than the amount of power contracted for delivery, Cleco Power may rely on its own generation facilities to meet customer demand. Cleco Power's incremental generation cost, at that time, may be higher than the cost to purchase power from the wholesale power market, therefore increasing its customers' ultimate cost. In addition, the LPSC may not allow Cleco Power to recover its incremental generation cost. These unrecovered costs could be substantial. Cleco Credit Rating A downgrade in Cleco Corporation's or Cleco Power's credit rating could result in an increase in their respective borrowing costs and a reduced pool of potential investors and funding sources. While the senior unsecured debt ratings of Cleco Corporation and Cleco Power are "investment grade," in recent years such ratings have been downgraded or put on negative watch by Standard & Poor's and Moody's. Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power cannot assure that its debt ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that one or more of its debt ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. If Moody's or Standard & Poor's was to downgrade Cleco Corporation's long-term rating or Cleco Power's long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, the value of any of its debt securities would likely be adversely affected, and the borrowing cost of Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power would increase. In addition, Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power would likely be required to pay higher interest rates in future debt financings, and its pool of potential investors and funding sources could decrease. Regulatory Compliance Cleco's costs of compliance with environmental laws, regulations and permits are significant, and the costs of compliance with new environmental laws, regulations and permits could be significant and reduce Cleco's profitability. Cleco is subject to extensive environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities and is required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations. Cleco is also required to obtain and to comply with numerous governmental permits in operating its facilities. Existing environmental laws, regulations and permits could be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to Cleco, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. Cleco may incur significant additional costs to comply with these revisions, reinterpretations and requirements. If Cleco fails to comply with these revisions, reinterpretations and requirements, it could be subject to civil or criminal liabilities and fines. Midstream Plant Performance Evangeline and Acadia have certain plant performance obligations under their respective tolling agreements. Failure to perform these obligations could expose each entity to adverse financial penalties. Performance requirements include, but are not limited to, maintaining plant performance characteristics such as heat rate and demonstrated generation capacity and maintaining specified availability levels with a combination of plant availability and replacement power. Obligations under the respective tolling agreements include, but are not limited to, maintaining various types of insurance, maintaining power and natural gas metering equipment, and paying scheduled interest and principal payments on debt. In addition to the performance obligations by Evangeline and Acadia, there are various guarantees and commitments required by Cleco Corporation. If Evangeline or Acadia fails to operate within specified requirements, the respective facilities may purchase replacement power on the open market and provide it to the tolling counterparties in order to meet contractual performance specifications. Providing replacement power maintains availability levels, but exposes Evangeline or Acadia to power commodity price volatility and transmission constraints. If availability targets under the tolling agreements are not met and economical purchased power and transmission are not available, Evangeline and Acadia's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Williams Failure by Williams to perform its obligations under the Evangeline Tolling Agreement would likely have a material adverse impact on Cleco's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The credit ratings of the senior unsecured debt of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Moody's - B1; Standard & Poor's - B+), the parent company of Williams under the Evangeline Tolling Agreement, remain below "investment grade." If Williams were to fail to perform its obligations under the Evangeline Tolling Agreement, such failure would have a material adverse impact on Cleco's results of operations, financial condition and cash flow for the following reasons, among others: If Williams' failure to perform constituted a default under the tolling agreement, the holders of the Evangeline bonds would have the right to declare the entire outstanding principal amount ($191.8 million at December 31, 2005) and interest to be immediately due and payable, which could result in: Cleco seeking to refinance the bonds, the terms of which may be less favorable than existing terms; Cleco causing Evangeline to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws; or the trustee of the bonds foreclosing on the mortgage and assuming ownership of the Evangeline plant; 18 Cleco may not be able to enter into agreements in replacement of the Evangeline Tolling Agreement on terms as favorable as that agreement or at all; Cleco's equity investment in Evangeline may be impaired, requiring a write-down to its fair market value, which could be substantial; and Cleco's credit ratings could be downgraded, which would increase borrowing costs and limit sources of financing. Energy Sales Cleco Power's future electricity sales could be adversely impacted by high energy prices and other economic factors affecting its customers. Within the past several years, Cleco Power's customers have experienced a substantial increase in their utility bills, largely as a result of substantial increases in the cost of natural gas. These increases may also cause Cleco Power's customers to more aggressively pursue energy conservation efforts or could result in increased bad debt expense due to the non-payment of bills. In addition, the high cost of energy, in general, has become problematic in many industries and has increased interest by industrial customers in on-site generation of their own power. Recently, four of Cleco Power's largest customers who manufacture paper products have experienced a downturn in their markets, and decreased crop yields from hurricane damage in 2005 have resulted in economic difficulties for customers in the agricultural industry. The four manufactures of paper products customers generated base revenues of approximately $21.0 million for 2005. Developments in conservation efforts or on-site generation could have a further negative impact on Cleco Power's long-term electricity sales and base revenue. Cleco Power Generation Facilities Cleco Power's generation facilities are subject to unplanned outages and significant maintenance requirements. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Some of Cleco Power's facilities were originally constructed many years ago. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant expenditures to operate at peak efficiency or availability. If Cleco Power fails to make adequate expenditures for equipment maintenance, Cleco risks incurring more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated operating and maintenance expenditures, increased fuel or power purchase costs and potentially the loss of revenues related to competitive opportunities. Holding Company Cleco Corporation is a holding company, and its ability to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on the cash generated by its subsidiaries. Cleco Corporation is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of Cleco's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Cleco's ability to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon the cash generated by these subsidiaries. Cleco's subsidiaries are separate and distinct entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on Cleco's debt or to make any funds available for such payment. In addition, Cleco's subsidiaries' ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to Cleco may be restricted by their obligations to holders of their outstanding securities and to other general business creditors. Moreover, Cleco Power, Cleco's principal subsidiary, is subject to regulation by the LPSC, which may impose limits on the amount of dividends that Cleco Power may pay Cleco. FERC Regulation The FERC regulates Cleco Power's transmission service and other wholesale rates. If the FERC were to substantially change Cleco Power's rates for these services, the results of operations and cash flows of Cleco Power could be adversely affected. On September 16, 2005, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry inviting comments on reforming FERC's pro forma OATT to ensure the provision of transmission service is reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. The FERC is seeking responses to a series of specific questions which could be incorporated into the revised OATT. The FERC's potential changes to the OATT could have a material effect on the revenue and methodology of implementing transmission service offered to Cleco's retail and wholesale transmission and energy customers. The magnitude of the impact on revenue will not be known until the FERC issues a final order, which is expected in 2006. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 