Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach within the RNIV framework. The severity of the scenarios is calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements. The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV is included in the VaR calculation and back-testing; a stressed VaR RNIV is also computed for the risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV approach. The fair value of Level 3 assets in trading portfolios, comprising trading securities and derivatives, is immaterial. Market risk arising from Level 3 assets is managed by various market risk techniques such as stress testing and notional limits to limit our exposure. We generally do not hold Level 3 assets within our trading portfolios. The table on page 489 shows the movement in Level 3 financial instruments. Stress testing (Audited) In recognition of the limitations of VaR, we augment it with stress testing as an integrated risk management tool to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. Stress testing is implemented at the legal entity, regional and overall Group levels. A standard set of scenarios is utilised consistently across all regions within the Group. Scenarios are tailored in order to capture the relevant events or market movements at each level. The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored against referral limits. 283 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk management, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: • single risk factor stress scenarios that are unlikely to be captured within the VaR models, such as the break of a currency peg; • technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market correlation; • hypothetical scenarios consider potential macroeconomic events, for example, the slowdown in mainland China and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects; and • historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress which would not be captured within VaR. Representative scenarios utilised for stress testing at the regional and global levels include the following: • China hard landing: This scenario is designed to capture the effect of an economic slowdown in mainland China and in other emerging markets. The objective of this scenario is to quantify the impact of market reactions to an economic deterioration in Asia followed by Latin America. Under such an event, investors’ risk aversion and drops in commodity prices are assumed to affect a range of market factors. Credit spreads and yield curves would rise while stock prices would fall, particularly in the regions of focus. Emerging currencies would mostly depreciate against the US dollar. • US selective default: This scenario assumes that the US debt ceiling cannot be raised any higher and the US government defaults on a specific set of treasury bonds. This type of event is considered in two stages. A direct impact is assessed from missing coupons and bond principals. A secondary impact captures wider market reactions such as a sharp rise of short-term US interest rates, a widening of credit spreads, a flight to alternative safe havens to the US debt and the US dollar and a general risk aversion in emerging markets. • Currency de-peg: The managed peg of the Hong Kong dollar, renminbi and Middle Eastern currencies to the US dollar is assumed to break down. Wide and sudden exchange rate shocks for each currency pair are designed to capture the impact on our exposures. Stress testing results are submitted to the GMB and Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) meetings in order to provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have. Risk management either provides recommendations to maintain exposures which are deemed to be acceptable or proposes mitigating actions that bring risk within our appetite. In addition, reverse stress tests are undertaken, based upon the premise that there is a fixed loss. The stress test process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss. The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications. Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk, provide management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR. HSBC appetite for tail risk is limited. Trading portfolios (Audited) Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems. Gap risk Certain transactions are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market conditions or events. However, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss. A gap event could arise from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure. Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible. Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VaR or to traditional market risk sensitivity measures. We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing 284 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) basis. We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk where significant. Gap risk derived from certain transactions in legacy portfolios remained immaterial and limits continued to be managed down during 2013. We did not incur any material gap loss in 2013. ABS/MBS exposures The ABS/MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VaR limits as described on page 232, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above. Non-trading portfolios (Audited) The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income. Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts, and the re-pricing behaviour of managed rate products. Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the assessed market risk of non-trading assets and liabilities created outside BSM or Markets, to the books managed by BSM, provided the market risk can be neutralised. The net exposure is typically managed by BSM through the use of fixed rate government bonds (liquid assets held in available-for-sale books) and interest rate swaps. The interest rate risk arising from fixed rate government bonds held within available-for-sale portfolios is reflected within the Group’s non-traded VaR. Interest rate swaps used by BSM are typically classified as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge and are included within the Group’s non-traded VaR. Any market risk that cannot be neutralised in the market is managed by local ALCO in segregated ALCO books. Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two stage funds transfer pricing approach. For details see page 280. Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and VaR. The VaR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval. Available-for-sale equity securities Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. Structural foreign exchange exposures (Unaudited) Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. An entity’s functional currency is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in ‘Other comprehensive income’. We use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries. 285 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question. We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge. Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved. Sensitivity of net interest income (Unaudited) A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling). We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue stream. Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC. The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated net interest income. Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Group’s current interest rate risk profile. This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by BSM or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk. In reality, BSM seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues. The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the ‘up-shock’ scenario. Rates are not assumed to become negative in the ‘down-shock’ scenario which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock. In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes. Defined benefit pension schemes (Audited) Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members. Pension scheme assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates (and credit risk) vary. There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer. Management, and in certain instances trustees (who act on behalf of the pension schemes’ beneficiaries), assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external consultants, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly. HSBC Holdings (Audited) As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity. Its activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; allocating these capital resources across our businesses; earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses; providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings’ equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term capital resources for deployment under extraordinary circumstances. It does not take proprietary trading positions. The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure 286 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in capital resources, cash flows and distributable reserves. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement. HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues. Operational risk (Unaudited) The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB. Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Global Risk, and a formal governance structure provides oversight over its management. The Global Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and supports the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee. It is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operational risk management framework (‘ORMF’), monitoring the level of operational losses and the effectiveness of the control environment. It is also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, including the preparation of reports for consideration by the Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee. The Global Operational Risk and Control Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the ORMF. The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions. The ORMF has been codified in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies which describe our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and give guidance on mitigating action to be taken when weaknesses are identified. Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data. A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process. Operational risk and control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units. Business and functional management and Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings. To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under US$10,000. Losses are entered into the operational risk system and are reported to the Group Operational Risk function quarterly. For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report, page 84. Compliance risk (Unaudited) Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk. All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. These rules, regulations, standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, counter-terrorist and proliferation financing, sanctions compliance, conduct of business, market conduct and other financial regulations. In 2013, HSBC transformed its existing Global Compliance team into two distinct sub-functions: Financial Crime Compliance (‘FCC’) and Regulatory Compliance (‘RC’), jointly supported by Compliance Shared Services. These are control functions working as part of our Global Risk function. They are responsible for functional resourcing decisions, performance reviews, objectives, strategy, budget and accountability. They are empowered to set standards and have the authority to ensure those standards are met. The Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance both report to the Group Chief Risk Officer. There are compliance teams in each of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses. These compliance 287 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) teams are principally overseen by Heads of Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory Compliance located in Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and North Africa. There is an Assurance team within Compliance Shared Services that reviews the effectiveness of the Regional and Global Business Compliance teams. Global policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Global Regulatory or Financial Crime Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant requirement. These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-year and year-end by all Group companies and functions detailing any known breaches as above. The contents of these escalation and certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board. They are disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, as appropriate. Legal risk (Unaudited) Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group standards. Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: • contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and/or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual relationship are defective; • dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or managing a potential or actual dispute; • legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates; and • non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company’s assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another party’s rights. Our Global Legal function assists management in controlling legal risk. There are legal departments in 51 of the countries in which we operate. In addition to the Group Legal function, there are regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels as well as a global General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses. Global security and fraud risk (Unaudited) Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk. This unit, which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business intelligence is fully integrated within Global Risk. This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate. The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective protection measures are in place against all forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part of the business. To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all types of fraud (e.g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations), is established within one management structure and is part of the Global Risk function. We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud. For example, customers’ credit and debit card spending is monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud. We have a fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best practices to detect fraud and minimise false alerts. We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy comprising fraud prevention policies and practices, the implementation of strong internal controls, an investigations response team and liaison with law enforcement where appropriate. The Business Continuity Planning function is responsible for ensuring that the group’s critical systems, processes and functions have the resilience to maintain continuity in the face of major disruptive events. Within this wider risk, 288 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for recovery, seeking to minimise the adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a range of actual or emerging risks. The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, revenue generation and the integrity of data and documents. Each business and function has its own recovery plans, which are developed following the completion of a Business Impact Analysis. This determines how much time the business or function could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes unacceptable, i.e. its criticality. These plans are reviewed and tested every year. The planning is undertaken against Group policy and standards and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met. Should there be exceptions, these are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional business continuity teams. It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible pandemics and the eurozone crisis. The ORMF is used to measure our resilience to these risks, and is confirmed to Group and regional risk committees. Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures. These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery times of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, requiring critical vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group insurance appropriate cover for business interruption costs. Systems risk (Unaudited) Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily execution (application systems) and the systems infrastructure on which they reside (data centres, networks and distributed computers). The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HTS organisation. Oversight is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview of existing top and emerging risks. HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using risk and control assessments and top risk analysis. Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographic and line of business boundaries. Business critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body. Quantitative scorecards called Risk Appetite Statements have been established for each of these services. Service Resilience and Systems Continuity Planning functions are in place to ensure systems meet agreed target service levels and in the event of major disruptive events, can be recovered within recovery time objectives agreed with the business. Vendor risk management (Unaudited) Our vendor risk management (‘VRM’) programme is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, especially where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers. VRM contains a rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and mitigate these risks. Fiduciary risk (Unaudited) Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent should only be undertaken within designated lines of business. Fiduciary risk is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of key indicators. The Group’s principal fiduciary businesses (‘designated businesses’) are: • HSBC Securities Services, where it is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Funds Services and Corporate Trust and loan agency activities; • HSBC Global Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment management activities on behalf of clients; 289 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) • HSBC Global Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its Private Wealth Services division and discretionary investment management; • HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes when providing insurance products and services; and • RBWM Trust Investment Wrappers, required by regulation for the provision of normal RBWM Wealth Management products and services. The Group’s requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the Fiduciary section of the Global Risk Functional Instruction Manual, which is owned by Global Operational Risk. No business other than the designated businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific dispensations from the relevant Fiduciary policy requirements. Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the management of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks. Risk management of insurance operations Overview of insurance products (Audited) HSBC manufactures the following main classes of life insurance contracts: • life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’); • credit life insurance business; • annuities; • term assurance and critical illness policies; • linked life insurance; • investment contracts with DPF; • unit-linked investment contracts; and • other investment contracts (including pension contracts written in Hong Kong). We additionally write a small amount of non-life insurance business primarily covering personal and commercial property. Nature and extent of risks (Audited) The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised between financial risks and insurance risk; financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Operational and sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Group’s respective overall risk management processes. The following sections describe how financial risks and insurance risk are managed. The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 134 to 265, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section on pages 249 to 259. Insurance manufacturers establish control procedures complying with the guidelines and requirements issued by Group Insurance and local regulatory requirements. Country level oversight is exercised by local risk management committees. Country Chief Risk Officers have direct reporting lines into local Insurance Chief Executive Officers and functional reporting lines into the Group Insurance Chief Risk Officer, who has overall accountability for risk management in insurance operations globally. The Group Insurance Executive Committee oversees the control framework globally and is accountable to the RBWM Risk Management Committee on risk matters. In addition, local ALCOs monitor and review the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities. All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process prior to introduction. 290 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Financial risks (Audited) Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks. The nature and management of these risks is described below. Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts. In many jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities. These requirements complement Group-wide policies. Market risk (Audited) Description of market risk The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below. Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. When the asset yields are below guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued, repriced or restructured. A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below. Categories of guaranteed benefits • annuities in payment; • deferred/immediate annuities: these consist of two phases – the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase; • annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate. This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract; and • capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses. The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. Subsidiaries with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses. An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee to the policyholder. Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at any time. When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk. In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions. A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based. These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiary’s local currency. Where the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes the subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets. For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets. Asset and liability matching It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder behaviour which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available. We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities. The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates. Of 291 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) particular importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which can extend for many years. Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the current market. As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current issues. We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business. Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be necessary. How market risk is managed All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain. They manage market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write. Techniques for managing market risk • for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders. The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder; • structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows; • using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows; • for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure; • periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products; • including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies; • exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable; and • repricing of premiums charged to policyholders. In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed. When, for example, options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate risk management procedures are in place. For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by Group Insurance. Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion. How the exposure to market risk is measured Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance. Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in Group Insurance. In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk exposure against risk appetite. This is submitted to Group Insurance and a global assessment presented to the RBWM Risk Management Committee. Standard measures for quantifying market risks • for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values; • for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country; and • for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency. The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations. The most significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates. Non-linearity arises, for example, from investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies. We bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the guaranteed benefits. 292 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant. The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance and risk committees every quarter. The table, ‘Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors’ on page 255), indicates the sensitivity of insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors. Credit risk (Audited) Description of credit risk Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: (i) risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and shareholders; and (ii) risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk. How credit risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information. Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group Credit Risk. Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities. We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group Insurance and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment. Liquidity risk (Audited) Description of liquidity risk It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk. There are three aspects to liquidity risk. The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk; specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations. Secondly, market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price. Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions. How liquidity risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following sources of cash inflows: • premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products; • interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments; • cash resources; and • the sale of investments. They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: • matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and liability matching techniques such as duration matching; • maintaining sufficient cash resources; 293 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) • investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist; • monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers; and • establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities. Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above. Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance for collation and review. Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows. This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected. Insurance risk (Audited) Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities. Insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and locally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements. Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing. As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk. Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers. Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer. The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below. The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers. These typically reflect the issuers’ own experiences. The type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably. • mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities. The risks are monitored on a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of experience; • lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders. A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis; and • expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and/or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline. Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions (see ‘Sensitivity analysis’ on page 259). Reputational risk (Unaudited) We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk. This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations. We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks to our business. Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes. As a banking group, our good reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, 294 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) to whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves. Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee (‘GRRPC’), which is chaired by the Group Chairman. The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Global Standards Steering Meeting for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk. Each of the Group’s geographical regions is required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level, either through a special section of their respective Regional Risk Management Committee or a regional Reputational Risk Policy Committee. Minutes from the regional meetings are tabled at GRRPC. Each of the global businesses is required to have a procedure to assess and address reputational risks potentially arising from proposed business transactions and client activity. These are supported by a central team which ensures that issues are directed to the appropriate forum, that decisions taken are implemented and that management information is collated and actions reported to senior management. Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions. Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards. These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system (see page 364), are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training. The policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption measures and employee relations. The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices. Pension risk (Audited) We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements, the Pension risk section on page 260 and below. Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’). In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies (and, in some instances, employees) make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the scheme’s trustees (where relevant). The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities. The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBC’s cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members. However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan. The agreed contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially. A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including: • investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits. This could arise, for example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held; • the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt); • a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities; and • scheme members living longer than expected (known as longevity risk). A plan’s investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and its consequential impact on potential future contributions. The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: • to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term; and • to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans. 295 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes. In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance. The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances. The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review. Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a management committee. The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions. Pension plans in the UK HSBC’s largest plan exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC. This comprises a funded final salary defined benefit plan (‘the principal plan’), which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established in July 1996 for new employees. The principal plan, which accounts for approximately 71% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension scheme. The trustee is responsible for monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits. The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid. The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made and the need for adequate diversification is taken into account in the choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the defined benefit section. Longevity risk in the principal plan is assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed through the funding process of the scheme. Pension plans in Hong Kong In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC. The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme. The defined benefit section of the scheme is a final salary lump sum scheme and therefore its exposure to longevity and interest rate risk is limited; it was closed to new members from 1999. The trustee assumes the overall responsibility for the scheme but a management committee and a number of sub-committees have also been established. These committees have been established to broaden the governance and manage the concomitant issues. The finance and investment sub-committee review and make recommendations on the various issues in relation to both assets and liabilities of the scheme, to the management committee. Pension plans in North America The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and other HSBC entities in the US who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation requirement. The Retirement Income Plan is a funded defined benefit plan which provides final average pay benefits to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants. Prior to 1 January 2013, all new employees participated in the cash balance section of the plan. With effect from 1 January 2013, it was agreed to cease all future contributions under the cash balance formula and freeze the plan. Whilst participants with existing balances will no longer accrue benefits, they will continue to receive interest credits. In November 2009, the Board of Directors of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. (‘HNAH’) approved actions to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under the final average pay formula components of the HSBC North America Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 January 2011. The Plan is governed by the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (‘ERISA’), which regulations serve as guidance for the management of plan assets. In this regard, an investment committee (the ‘committee’) for the Plan has been established and its members have been appointed by the Chief Executive Officer as authorised by the Board of Directors of HNAH. The committee is responsible for establishing the funding policy and investment objectives supporting the Plan including allocating the assets of the Plan, monitoring the diversification of the Plan’s 296 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) investments and investment performance, assuring the Plan does not violate any provisions of ERISA and the appointment, removal and monitoring of investment advisers and the trustee. A key factor shaping the committee’s attitude towards risk is the generally long-term nature of the underlying benefit obligations. The asset allocation decision reflects this long-term horizon as well as the ability and willingness to accept some short-term variability in the performance of the portfolio in exchange for the expectation of competitive long-term investment results for its participants. Sustainability risk (Unaudited) Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development; in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits. Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Global Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate. Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks. Global Corporate Sustainability’s risk management responsibilities include: • formulating sustainability risk policies. This includes overseeing our sustainability risk standards, our implementation of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and our sector-based sustainability policies covering those sectors with high environmental or social impacts (forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and defence-related lending); undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high; and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude; • building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending and investment activities on sustainable development; and • providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher. 297 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Capital Page App 1 Tables Page Capital overview 299 Capital ratios 299 Capital management 319 Approach and policy 319 Stress testing 319 Risks to capital 319 Risk-weighted asset targets 319 Capital generation 320 Capital measurement and allocation 320 Regulatory capital 320 Pillar 1 capital requirements 320 Pillar 2 capital requirements 322 Pillar 3 disclosure requirements 322 Risk-weighted assets 299 RWAs by risk type 299 Market risk RWAs 300 RWAs by global businesses 300 RWAs by geographical regions 300 Credit risk RWAs 300 RWA movement by geographical regions by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 302 RWA movement by global businesses by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 303 Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs 303 RWA movement by key driver - counterparty credit risk – IRB only 303 RWA movement by key driver – market risk – internal model based 303 Operational risk RWAs 304 RWA movement by key driver – basis of preparation and supporting notes 322 Credit risk drivers – definitions 322 Counterparty risk drivers – definitions 324 Market risk drivers – definitions 324 Movement in total regulatory capital in 2013 304 Source and application of total regulatory capital 304 Capital structure 305 Composition of regulatory capital 305 Regulatory impact of management actions 306 Regulatory and accounting consolidations 306 Reconciliation of balance sheets – financial accounting to regulatory scope of consolidation 307 Basel III implementation and CRD IV 309 Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 2013 position 324 Composition of regulatory capital on an estimated CRD IV basis and Year 1 transitional basis 310 Reconciliation of current rules to CRD IV end point rules 311 Key regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment 325 Key changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV 327 Leverage ratio: basis of preparation 328 Leverage ratio 312 Estimated leverage ratio 313 Future developments 314 UK regulatory update 314 Systemically important banks 314 Regulatory capital buffers 314 RWA integrity 316 Structural banking reform 316 1 Appendix to Capital. 298 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Our objective in the management of Group capital is to maintain appropriate levels of capital to support our business strategy and meet our regulatory requirements. Capital highlights • Core tier 1 capital ratio 13.6%, up from 12.3% in 2012, as a result of capital generation and management actions. • Our end point CET1 ratio 10.9%, up from 9.5% in 2012, as a result of similar drivers. Capital overview Capital ratios (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013 2012 % % Core tier 1 ratio 13.6 12.3 Tier 1 ratio 14.5 13.4 Total capital ratio 17.8 16.1 CRD IV Common equity tier 1 ratio (end point)1 10.9 9.5 Common equity tier 1 ratio (Year 1 transition) 10.8 For footnote, see page 318. In November 2013, the Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) published its expectations in relation to capital ratios for major UK banks and building societies. These were that from 1 January 2014, capital resources should be held equivalent to at least 7% of risk-weighted assets using a CRD IV end point definition of common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) but after taking into account any adjustments set by the PRA to reflect the Financial Policy Committee’s (‘FPC’s) capital shortfall exercise recommendations. These include an assessment of expected future losses, future costs of conduct redress and adjusting for a more prudent calculation of risk weights. In addition to the above, the PRA has established a forward-looking Basel III end point CET1 target ratio post-FPC adjustments for the Group to be met by 2019. This effectively replaced the Capital Resources Floor that was set by the FSA towards the end of 2012. In December 2013, the PRA issued its final rules on CRD IV in Policy Statement (‘PS 7/13’). This transposes the various areas of national discretion within the final CRD IV legislation into UK law that is applicable from 1 January 2014. In its final rules, the PRA did not adopt most of the transitional provisions available in CRD IV, thereby opting for an acceleration of the CRD IV end point definition of CET1. Notwithstanding this, the CRD IV transitional provisions for unrealised gains have been applied, so that unrealised gains on investment property are derecognised until 1 January 2015. As a result, our transitional ratio is slightly lower than end point. Despite the final PRA rules, there remains continued uncertainty around the amount of capital that banks will be required to hold. This relates to the quantification and interaction of capital buffers and Pillar 2, where further PRA consultations are due in 2014. Furthermore, there are a significant number of draft and unpublished European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) technical and implementation standards due in 2014 which could potentially affect our capital position and RWAs. Our approach to managing Group capital is designed to ensure that we exceed current regulatory requirements, and are well placed to meet those expected in the future. In 2013 we managed our capital position to meet an internal target ratio of 9.5 – 10.5% on a CET1 end-point basis, changing to greater than 10% from 1 January 2014. We continue to keep this under review. A summary of our policies and practices regarding capital management, measurement and allocation is provided in the Appendix to Capital on page 319. Risk-weighted assets RWAs by risk type (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Credit risk 864,300 898,416 Standardised approach 329,464 374,469 IRB foundation approach 13,612 10,265 IRB advanced approach 521,224 513,682 Counterparty credit risk 45,731 48,319 Standardised approach2 3,583 2,645 IRB approach 42,148 45,674 Market risk 63,416 54,944 Operational risk 119,206 122,264 Total 1,092,653 1,123,943 Of which: Run-off portfolios 104,869 145,689 Legacy credit in GB&M 26,348 38,587 US CML and Other 78,521 107,102 Card and Retail Services3 1,143 6,858 For footnotes, see page 318. 299 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Market risk RWAs (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m VaR 4,870 7,616 Stressed VaR 9,402 11,048 Incremental risk charge 23,088 11,062 Comprehensive risk measure 2,626 3,387 Other VaR and stressed VaR 12,231 11,355 Internal model based 52,217 44,468 PRA standard rules 11,199 10,476 63,416 54,944 RWAs by global businesses (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013US$bn 2012US$bn Retail Banking and WealthManagement 233.5 276.6 Commercial Banking 391.7 397.0 Global Banking and Markets 422.3 403.1 Global Private Banking 21.7 21.7 Other 23.5 25.5 Total 1,092.7 1,123.9 RWAs by geographical regions4 (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013US$bn 2012US$bn Total 1,092.7 1,123.9 Europe 300.1 314.7 Hong Kong 138.3 111.9 Rest of Asia-Pacific 292.4 302.2 MENA 62.5 62.2 North America 223.8 253.0 Latin America 89.5 97.9 For footnote, see page 318. Credit risk RWAs (Unaudited) Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three approaches as permitted by the PRA. For consolidated Group reporting we have adopted the advanced IRB approach for the majority of our business, with a small proportion on the foundation IRB approach and the remaining portfolios being on the standardised approach. Standardised approach RWAs For portfolios treated under the standardised approach, credit risk RWAs reduced by US$45bn of which US$2.7bn was due to foreign exchange movements. The reduction was primarily due to the reclassification of Industrial Bank from an associate to a financial investment. As a result, the holding was removed from the regulatory consolidation of RWAs and the investment was deducted from capital, resulting in a year-on-year reduction in RWAs of US$39.2bn. This was partly offset by loan growth in Bank of Communications, increasing RWAs by US$14.5bn. The disposal of operations in Latin America, reduced RWAs by US$6.2bn, although this was partly offset by RWA growth of US$3.7bn in Brazil, mainly driven by corporate term lending and trade finance growth in GB&M and CMB. RWAs reduced by US$1.2bn in the Middle East and North Africa, mainly driven by reductions in CMB in the UAE and Oman of US$2.2bn, although this was partly offset by growth in our associate, The Saudi British Bank, of US$1.1bn. During the year there were changes in approach for several portfolios: • In Europe, income producing real estate portfolios in CMB, GPB and GB&M were moved from the standardised approach to the IRB slotting approach, reducing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$15.1bn and increasing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$13.4bn. In addition, as a result of a business restructuring, a GB&M corporate portfolio was moved to the IRB approach, reducing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$3.8bn and increasing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$2.4bn. • In North America, commercial real estate portfolios in CMB and GB&M were moved from IRB to the standardised approach, increasing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$6.7bn and reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$3.1bn. • In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, corporate exposures in CMB and GB&M were identified which did not meet full modelling requirements and these were moved temporarily to the standardised approach, increasing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$7.0bn and reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$6.3bn. IRB approach RWAs Credit risk RWA movements by key driver for portfolios treated under the IRB approach are set out in the tables on pages 302 and 303. For the basis of preparation, see the Appendix to Capital on page 319. 300 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Foreign exchange movements reduced RWAs under the IRB approach by US$4.6bn; the discussion of the remaining drivers excludes the effects of foreign currency translation. Acquisitions and disposals Disposals reduced Group IRB RWAs by US$11.8bn. In line with our objectives to accelerate the run-off of the US CML portfolio there were sales of non-real estate and personal homeowner loans with an RWA reduction of US$8.2bn in North America RBWM. Additional sales of defaulted mortgage exposures for the US CML portfolio, which do not generate RWAs, also had a beneficial impact on the capital position through lower deductions for regulatory expected losses in North America. The sale of the HFC Bank UK secured loan portfolio in Europe RBWM reduced RWAs by US$1.4bn. In Latin America GB&M, the disposal of our businesses in Panama, Peru and Paraguay, reduced RWAs by US$1.7bn. Book size Movements in the size of the book increased Group IRB RWAs by US$14.3bn. Growth in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific for CMB and GB&M, mainly driven by corporate term and trade-related lending and trade finance business, resulted in an RWA increase of US$14.5bn, with a further increase of US$1.8bn relating to higher institutional exposures. In Hong Kong RBWM, credit card and unsecured lending portfolio growth resulted in an increase in RWAs of US$1.2bn. Corporate exposure growth in Europe CMB and GB&M increased RWAs by US$2.1bn, while reductions for securitisation exposures resulted in a reduction in RWAs of US$1.4bn in Europe, reflecting sales and the amortisation of assets, mainly in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio. North America RBWM balance reductions reduced RWAs by US$14bn, primarily from the continued run-off of the US CML retail mortgage portfolio. In North America CMB, corporate lending growth resulted in an increase in RWAs of US$3.2bn. Sovereign exposure growth increased RWAs by US$4.3bn, mainly in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa and Hong Kong. Book quality Movements in the quality of the book reduced Group IRB RWAs by US$6.0bn. In the US CML retail mortgage portfolio, accounts moving into default reduced RWAs by US$4.2bn in RBWM. This was accompanied by a rise in regulatory expected losses, leading to higher deductions from capital. Book quality movements in Europe GB&M were mainly the result of credit quality changes for securitisation exposures, reducing RWAs by US$4.5bn and partly reflecting the effect of exposures moving from RWAs to capital deductions. There was a reduction in RWAs of US$3.2bn from favourable shifts in corporate and institutional portfolio quality in Europe GB&M. There were further movements in book quality in Europe, including a US$5.3bn RWA management overlay applied for corporate exposures in CMB and GB&M in response to increased loss rates and in advance of model recalibration. In Europe RBWM, RWAs reduced by US$1.7bn on retail mortgage and credit card portfolios, mainly reflecting favourable changes in customer risk and the risk distribution in these portfolios. In Hong Kong, changes in book quality for GB&M and CMB corporate customers increased RWAs by US$4.7bn, mainly due to adverse movements in customer credit standing, partly offset by favourable shifts in loss given default metrics and the risk distribution of the portfolio. In Hong Kong RBWM, improvements in the quality of the credit card and unsecured lending portfolio reduced RWAs by US$0.5bn. RWA movements from adverse internal rating changes for sovereign exposures in Middle East and North Africa and Hong Kong were broadly offset by favourable changes in North America. Model updates Model updates increased Group IRB RWAs by US$11.5bn. In Europe, income producing real estate portfolios in CMB, GPB and GB&M were moved on to the IRB slotting approach, reducing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$15.1bn and increasing them on the IRB approach by US$13.4bn. This was accompanied by a rise in regulatory expected losses, leading to higher deductions from capital. Further updates included the implementation of a new corporate exposure model, reducing RWAs in Europe GB&M by US$2.3bn, with lower credit conversion factors that are more reflective of historical experience. Methodology and policy Methodology and policy updates increased Group IRB RWAs by US$7.5bn. In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, corporate exposures in CMB and GB&M were identified which did not meet full modelling requirements, and these were moved 301 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) temporarily to the standardised approach, increasing standardised RWAs by US$7.0bn and reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$6.3bn. In Europe CMB, business restructuring enabled the application of a retail approach to the management of a portfolio of SME customers, reducing RWAs by US$0.8bn. Sovereign exposures were a key driver of external methodology and policy RWA movements in GB&M across a number of regions. On implementation of the PRA-determined 45% loss given default floor, RWAs increased by US$19bn, mainly in North America, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. In North America, commercial real estate portfolios in CMB and GB&M were moved on to the standardised approach as required by the PRA, increasing standardised RWAs by US$6.7bn and reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by US$3.1bn, as reflected in external methodology updates. RWA movement by geographical regions by key driver – credit risk – IRB only5 (Unaudited) EuropeUS$bn Hong KongUS$bn Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$bn MENAUS$bn NorthAmericaUS$bn LatinAmericaUS$bn TotalUS$bn RWAs at 1 January 2013 150.7 70.2 92.1 12.6 187.1 11.2 523.9 Foreign exchange movement 3.3 – (4.5 ) (0.5 ) (1.9 ) (1.0 ) (4.6 ) Acquisitions and disposals (1.5 ) – – – (8.6 ) (1.7 ) (11.8 ) Book size 2.1 11.0 10.2 1.4 (10.6 ) 0.2 14.3 Book quality (1.5 ) 5.6 (0.3 ) 1.3 (10.8 ) (0.3 ) (6.0 ) Model updates 11.6 – – 0.1 (0.2 ) – 11.5 Portfolios moving onto IRB approach 13.4 – – – – – 13.4 New/updated models (1.8 ) – – 0.1 (0.2 ) – (1.9 ) Methodology and policy 2.2 (1.0 ) (0.4 ) 0.1 6.5 0.1 7.5 Internal updates (0.2 ) (5.0 ) (2.8 ) 0.1 (0.6 ) 0.1 (8.4 ) External updates 2.4 4.0 2.4 – 7.1 – 15.9 Total RWA movement 16.2 15.6 5.0 2.4 (25.6 ) (2.7 ) 10.9 RWAs at 31 December 2013 166.9 85.8 97.1 15.0 161.5 8.5 534.8 RWAs at 1 January 2012 156.5 68.0 82.3 12.9 254.5 12.0 586.2 Foreign exchange movement 4.7 0.1 0.8 (0.2 ) 0.7 0.1 6.2 Acquisitions and disposals – – (0.1 ) (0.7 ) (40.3 ) (0.9 ) (42.0 ) Book size (1.8 ) 3.6 5.4 1.0 (7.6 ) (0.6 ) – Book quality (6.6 ) 1.5 (1.1 ) (0.3 ) (17.9 ) 0.1 (24.3 ) Model updates 0.4 – – 0.1 – – 0.5 Portfolios moving onto IRB approach 1.4 – – 0.1 – – 1.5 New/updated models (1.0 ) – – – – – (1.0 ) Methodology and policy (2.5 ) (3.0 ) 4.8 (0.2 ) (2.3 ) 0.5 (2.7 ) Internal updates (1.3 ) (3.0 ) 4.8 (0.2 ) (2.3 ) 0.5 (1.5 ) External updates (1.2 ) – – – – – (1.2 ) Total RWA movement (5.8 ) 2.2 9.8 (0.3 ) (67.4 ) (0.8 ) (62.3 ) RWAs at 31 December 2012 150.7 70.2 92.1 12.6 187.1 11.2 523.9 For footnote, see page 318. 302 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) RWA movement by global businesses by key driver – credit risk – IRB only5 (Unaudited) RetailBanking andWealthManagement US$bn CommercialBanking US$bn GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$bn GlobalPrivatebankingUS$bn Other US$bn Total US$bn RWAs at 1 January 2013 163.1 169.0 177.7 9.6 4.5 523.9 Foreign exchange movement (0.4 ) (1.5 ) (2.7 ) 0.1 (0.1 ) (4.6 ) Acquisitions and disposals (10.1 ) (0.1 ) (1.6 ) – – (11.8 ) Book size (12.7 ) 14.5 13.5 (0.7 ) (0.3 ) 14.3 Book quality (6.4 ) 3.5 (3.4 ) 0.3 – (6.0 ) Model updates (0.2 ) 10.1 (1.0 ) 2.6 – 11.5 Portfolios moving onto IRB approach – 10.0 0.8 2.6 – 13.4 New/updated models (0.2 ) 0.1 (1.8 ) – – (1.9 ) Methodology and policy (2.3 ) (6.0 ) 16.0 (1.3 ) 1.1 7.5 Internal updates (2.3 ) (3.4 ) (0.6 ) (2.1 ) – (8.4 ) External updates – (2.6 ) 16.6 0.8 1.1 15.9 Total RWA movement (32.1 ) 20.5 20.8 1.0 0.7 10.9 RWAs at 31 December 2013 131.0 189.5 198.5 10.6 5.2 534.8 For footnote, see page 318. Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs (Unaudited) Portfolio movements for the modelled approaches to market risk and counterparty credit risk (‘CCR’) RWAs are outlined in the tables below. RWA movement by key driver – counterparty credit risk – IRB only (Unaudited) 2013US$bn 2012 US$bn RWAs at 1 January 45.7 50.6 Book size (0.9 ) (0.8 ) Book quality (2.7 ) 0.1 Model updates – (0.2 ) Methodology and policy 0.1 (4.0 ) Internal updates 0.1 (4.0 ) External updates – – Total RWA movement (3.5 ) (4.9 ) RWAs at 31 December 42.2 45.7 CCR RWAs calculated on the IRB approach reduced by US$3.5bn in 2013. Book quality movements drove a reduction in RWAs of US$2.7bn due to an improvement in the credit standing of counterparties. Book size decreased by US$0.9bn, due to lower exposures across most regions as trades matured and volumes reduced. CCR RWAs on the standardised approach increased by US$0.9bn, mainly due to higher balance sheet exposures on foreign exchange derivatives with corporate counterparties in Brazil. RWA movement by key driver – market risk – internal model based (Unaudited) 2013US$bn 2012 US$bn RWAs at 1 January 44.5 54.7 Foreign exchange movement and other – (0.4 ) Movement in risk levels (14.5 ) (7.4 ) Model updates 17.6 – Methodology and policy 4.6 (2.4 ) Internal updates 4.6 (2.4 ) External updates – – Total RWA movement 7.7 (10.2 ) RWAs at 31 December 52.2 44.5 Market risk RWA increases of US$7.7bn, for internally modelled exposures, were mainly due to model updates in relation to the incremental risk charge (‘IRC’) which increased RWAs by US$17.3bn. In 2013, the IRC model was updated to account more explicitly for stressed conditions. Key input parameters were calibrated to a stressed period and further granularity in parameters were introduced to better represent the risk profile. This led to a one-off increase in the IRC requirement which is reflected in the current year. As part of the model oversight, the IRC model will be periodically recalibrated to accurately capture the risk profile in a stressed environment. Further RWA increases of US$4.6bn were due to changes in the stressed VaR period and internal methodology updates relating to a change in the basis of consolidation for modelled 303 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) market risk charges as a result of clarification of the regulatory rules. The movement in risk levels, reducing RWAs by US$14.5bn, was due to reductions in positions sensitive to the IRC and changes in the shape of the trading portfolio due to defensive positions taken by the Equity and Foreign Exchange businesses in GB&M, leading to a lower stressed VaR and VaR. Operational risk RWAs (Unaudited) The reduction in Group-level operational risk RWAs of US$3.1bn was driven by the decrease in North America of US$6.4bn, mainly due to the acceleration of the amortisation of the operational risk RWAs for the US CRS portfolio disposed of in May 2012. This was partly offset by RWA growth in Hong Kong of US$1.5bn and Rest of Asia-Pacific of US$1.2bn due to a higher three-year average operating income from increased loans and advances. Movement in total regulatory capital in 2013 (Audited) Source and application of total regulatory capital At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Movement in total regulatory capital (Audited) Opening core tier 1 capital 138,789 122,496 Contribution to core tier 1 capital from profit for the year 17,124 17,827 Consolidated profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company 16,204 14,027 Removal of own credit spread net of tax 920 3,800 Net dividends (6,987 ) (5,613 ) Dividends (9,510 ) (8,042 ) Add back: shares issued in lieu of dividends 2,523 2,429 Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deducted 535 1,686 Ordinary shares issued 297 594 Foreign currency translation differences (1,294 ) 989 Other, including regulatory adjustments 587 810 Closing core tier 1 capital 149,051 138,789 Opening other tier 1 capital 12,259 17,094 Hybrid capital securities redeemed (1,239 ) (776 ) Unconsolidated investments (2,004 ) (4,120 ) Other, including regulatory adjustments 88 61 Closing tier 1 capital 158,155 151,048 Opening tier 2 capital 29,758 30,744 Unconsolidated investments 6,447 264 Issued tier 2 capital securities net of redemptions 1,609 (1,483 ) Other, including regulatory adjustments (1,960 ) 233 Closing total regulatory capital 194,009 180,806 We complied with the PRA’s capital adequacy requirements throughout 2012 and 2013. Internal capital generation contributed US$10.1bn to core tier 1 capital, being profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company after regulatory adjustment for own credit spread and net of dividends. The table below sets out the composition of our capital under the regulatory requirements in application at 31 December 2013. 304 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Capital structure Composition of regulatory capital (Audited) At 31 December Ref 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Tier 1 capital Shareholders’ equity 173,449 167,360 Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet6 a 181,871 175,242 Preference share premium b (1,405 ) (1,405 ) Other equity instruments c (5,851 ) (5,851 ) Deconsolidation of special purpose entities7 a (1,166 ) (626 ) Non-controlling interests 4,955 4,348 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet d 8,588 7,887 Preference share non-controlling interests e (2,388 ) (2,428 ) Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital f (488 ) (501 ) Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries d (757 ) (610 ) Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis 480 (2,437 ) Unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities8 2,595 1,223 Own credit spread 1,037 112 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment9 g (518 ) (469 ) Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities (2,755 ) (3,290 ) Cash flow hedging reserve 121 (13 ) Deductions (29,833 ) (30,482 ) Goodwill and intangible assets h (25,198 ) (25,733 ) 50% of securitisation positions (1,684 ) (1,776 ) 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses 151 111 50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances i (3,102 ) (3,084 ) Core tier 1 capital 149,051 138,789 Other tier 1 capital before deductions 16,110 17,301 Preference share premium b 1,405 1,405 Preference share non-controlling interests e 2,388 2,428 Hybrid capital securities j 12,317 13,468 Deductions (7,006 ) (5,042 ) Unconsolidated investments10 (7,157 ) (5,153 ) 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses 151 111 Tier 1 capital 158,155 151,048 Tier 2 capital Total qualifying tier 2 capital before deductions 47,812 48,231 Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities 2,755 3,290 Collective impairment allowances k 2,616 2,717 Perpetual subordinated debt l 2,777 2,778 Term subordinated debt m 39,364 39,146 Non-controlling interests in tier 2 capital f 300 300 Total deductions other than from tier 1 capital (11,958 ) (18,473 ) Unconsolidated investments10 (7,157 ) (13,604 ) 50% of securitisation positions (1,684 ) (1,776 ) 50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances i (3,102 ) (3,084 ) Other deductions (15 ) (9 ) Total regulatory capital 194,009 180,806 For footnotes, see page 318. The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components on page 307 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital. 305 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Regulatory impact of management actions (Unaudited) At 31 December Risk-weightedassets Core tier 1capital Tier 1capital Totalregulatorycapital 2012 Reported capital ratios before management actions 12.3% 13.4% 16.1% Reported totals (US$m) 1,123,943 138,789 151,048 180,806 Management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change in accountingtreatment (38,073 ) 981 (423 ) (1,827 ) Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An – 553 4,637 7,984 Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) 1,085,870 140,323 155,262 186,963 Estimated capital ratios after management actions completed in 2013 12.9% 14.3% 17.2% Regulatory and accounting consolidations (Unaudited) The basis of consolidation for the purpose of financial accounting under IFRSs, described in Note 1 on the Financial Statements, differs from that used for regulatory purposes as described in ‘Structure of the regulatory group’ on page 12 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report. The table below provides a reconciliation of the balance sheet from the financial accounting to the regulatory scope of consolidation. It is the regulatory balance sheet, and not the financial accounting balance sheet, which forms the basis for the calculation of regulatory capital requirements. Interests in associates are equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their exposures are proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes. Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and non-financial activities are excluded from the regulatory consolidation and deducted from regulatory capital. The regulatory consolidation does not include Special Purpose Entities (‘SPEs’) where significant risk has been transferred to third parties. Exposures to these SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions for regulatory purposes. Entities in respect of which the basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes differs from that used for regulatory purposes can be found in table 3 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report. 306 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of balance sheets – financial accounting to regulatory scope of consolidation (Unaudited) At 31 December 2013 Ref AccountingbalancesheetUS$m Decon- solidation of insurance/ other entitiesUS$m Consolidation of banking associatesUS$m RegulatorybalancesheetUS$m Assets Trading assets 303,192 32 1,686 304,910 Loans and advances to customersof which: 1,080,304 (13,182 ) 110,168 1,177,290 – impairment allowances on IRB portfolios i (9,476 ) – – (9,476 ) – impairment allowances on standardised portfolios k (5,667 ) – (2,465 ) (8,132 ) Financial investments 425,925 (52,680 ) 31,430 404,675 Capital invested in insurance and other entities – 9,135 – 9,135 Interests in associates and joint ventures 16,640 – (15,982 ) 658 of which: – positive goodwill on acquisition h 608 – (593 ) 15 Goodwill and intangible assets h 29,918 (5,369 ) 631 25,180 Other assets 815,339 (37,634 ) 57,477 835,182 of which: – goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups held for sale h 3 – – 3 – retirement benefit assets g 2,140 – – 2,140 – impairment allowances on assets held for sale (111 ) – – (111 ) of which: – IRB portfolios i – – – – – standardised portfolios k (111 ) – – (111 ) Total assets 2,671,318 (99,698 ) 185,410 2,757,030 Liabilities and equity Deposits by banks 129,212 (193 ) 33,296 162,315 Customer accounts 1,482,812 (711 ) 142,924 1,625,025 Trading liabilities 207,025 (129 ) 161 207,057 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 89,084 (13,471 ) – 75,613 of which: – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 18,230 – – 18,230 – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 3,685 – – 3,685 Debt securities in issue 104,080 (9,692 ) 1,021 95,409 Retirement benefit liabilities g 2,931 (11 ) 56 2,976 Subordinated liabilities 28,976 2 2,961 31,939 of which: – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 2,873 – – 2,873 – perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital l 2,777 – – 2,777 – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 23,326 – – 23,326 Other liabilities 436,739 (73,570 ) 4,991 368,160 of which: – contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 177 – – 177 of which: – credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios i 155 – – 155 – credit-related provisions on standardised portfolios k 22 – – 22 Total shareholders’ equity a 181,871 (1,166 ) – 180,705 of which: – other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital c, j 5,851 – – 5,851 – preference share premium included in tier 1 capital b 1,405 – – 1,405 Non-controlling interests d 8,588 (757 ) – 7,831 of which: – non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries included in tier 1 capital e 2,388 – – 2,388 – non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, cumulative preferred stock f 300 – – 300 – non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital f,m 188 – – 188 Total liabilities and equity 2,671,318 (99,698 ) 185,410 2,757,030 307 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of balance sheets – financial accounting to regulatory scope of consolidation (continued) (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 Ref Accountingbalancesheet US$m Decon- solidation of insurance/ other entitiesUS$m Consolidation of banking associatesUS$m Regulatorybalancesheet US$m Assets Trading assets 408,811 (144 ) 1,477 410,144 Loans and advances to customersof which: 997,623 (11,957 ) 119,698 1,105,364 – impairment allowances on IRB portfolios i (10,255 ) – – (10,255 ) – impairment allowances on standardised portfolios k (5,857 ) – (2,726 ) (8,583 ) Financial investments 421,101 (50,256 ) 33,110 403,955 Capital invested in insurance and other entities – 8,384 – 8,384 Interests in associates and joint ventures 17,834 – (17,127 ) 707 of which: – positive goodwill on acquisition h 670 – (640 ) 30 Goodwill and intangible assets h 29,853 (4,983 ) 687 25,557 Other assets 817,316 (34,672 ) 82,469 865,113 of which: – goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups held for sale h 146 (117 ) – 29 – retirement benefit assets g 2,846 – – 2,846 – impairment allowances on assets held for sale (703 ) – – (703 ) of which: – IRB portfolios i (691 ) – – (691 ) – standardised portfolios k (12 ) – – (12 ) Total assets 2,692,538 (93,628 ) 220,314 2,819,224 Liabilities and equity Deposits by banks 107,429 (202 ) 51,296 158,523 Customer accounts 1,340,014 (652 ) 158,631 1,497,993 Trading liabilities 304,563 (131 ) 119 304,551 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 87,720 (12,437 ) – 75,283 of which: – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 16,863 – – 16,863 – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 4,696 – – 4,696 Debt securities in issue 119,461 (11,390 ) 1,888 109,959 Retirement benefit liabilities g 3,905 (21 ) 52 3,936 Subordinated liabilities 29,479 3 2,953 32,435 of which: – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 2,828 – – 2,828 – perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital l 2,778 – – 2,778 – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 23,873 – – 23,873 Other liabilities 516,838 (67,562 ) 5,375 454,651 of which: – contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 301 – – 301 of which: – credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios i 267 – – 267 – credit-related provisions on standardised portfolios k 34 – – 34 Total shareholders’ equity a 175,242 (626 ) – 174,616 of which: – other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital c, j 5,851 – – 5,851 – preference share premium included in tier 1 capital b 1,405 – – 1,405 Non-controlling interests d 7,887 (610 ) – 7,277 of which: – non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries included in tier 1 capital e 2,428 – – 2,428 – non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, cumulative preferred stock f 300 – – 300 – non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital f,m 201 – – 201 Total liabilities and equity 2,692,538 (93,628 ) 220,314 2,819,224 The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital on page 305. 308 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Basel III implementation and CRD IV (Unaudited) In June 2013, the European Commission published the final Regulation and Directive, known collectively as CRD IV, to give effect to the Basel III framework in the EU. This came into effect on 1 January 2014. In December 2013, the PRA issued its final rules on CRD IV in PS 7/13, which transposes the various areas of national discretion within the final CRD IV legislation in the UK. Despite these final PRA rules further PRA consultations are due in 2014 for CRD IV capital buffers and Pillar 2. In addition, many technical standards and guidelines have been issued by the EBA in draft form for consultation or are pending publication in 2014. These must be adopted by the European Commission to become legally enforceable, which provides further uncertainty as to the capital requirements under CRD IV. Following publication of the final CRD IV rules and UK national discretions, in order to provide transparency to the way we manage our transition to Basel III under CRD IV, we set out information for investors on the estimated effects of these rules on our CET1 capital position in the table on page 310. This is supplemented by a table on page 311 which presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 capital and RWAs to our estimated CET1 end point capital and estimated RWAs at 31 December 2013. The position at 31 December 2013 is compared with that at 31 December 2012, where the estimated effect was based on the earlier July 2011 draft CRD IV text. The capital position is presented on an end-point definition of CET1 capital, applying all deductions and regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital in full, as they would apply at the end of the transitional period. The tables quantify the capital and RWA impacts currently known and are based on our interpretation of the final CRD IV regulation and final rules issued by PRA, as supplemented by regulatory guidance. The effects of draft EBA standards are not captured in our numbers. These could have additional, potentially significant effects on our capital position and RWAs. For the detailed basis of preparation, see the Appendix to Capital, page 324. 309 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Composition of regulatory capital on an estimated CRD IV end point basis and Year 1 transitional basis (Unaudited) At 31 December2013 US$m Shareholders’ equity 164,057 Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet6 181,871 Foreseeable interim dividend (3,005 ) Preference share premium (1,405 ) Other equity instruments (5,851 ) Deconsolidation of special purpose entities7 (1,166 ) Deconsolidation of insurance entities (6,387 ) Non-controlling interests 3,644 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet 8,588 Preference share non-controlling interests (2,388 ) Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital (488 ) Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries (757 ) Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1 (1,311 ) Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis 782 Own credit spread11 1,112 Debit valuation adjustment (451 ) Cash flow hedging reserve 121 Deductions (35,969 ) Goodwill and intangible assets (24,899 ) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences) (680 ) Defined benefit pension fund assets (1,731 ) Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as PVA) (2,006 ) Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component (exchange traded funds, derivatives,and index stock) (677 ) Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances (5,976 ) Common equity tier 1 capital 132,514 Transitional adjustment: Unrealised gains arising from revaluation of property (1,281 ) Common equity tier 1 capital on year 1 transitional basis 131,233 For footnotes, see page 318. Whilst CRD IV allows for the majority of regulatory adjustments and deductions from CET1 to be implemented on a gradual basis from 1 January 2014 to 1 January 2018, the PRA has largely decided not to make use of these transitional provisions. This results in a cost to our transitional CET1 ratio, corresponding to the treatment of unrealised gains on investment property, which are only capable of being recognised in CET1 capital from 1 January 2015. For tier 1 and tier 2 capital, the PRA followed the transitional provisions timing as set out in CRD IV to apply the necessary regulatory adjustments and deductions. The effect of these adjustments will be phased in at 20% per annum from 1 January 2014 to 1 January 2018. Furthermore, non-CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 and tier 2 instruments benefit from a grandfathering period. This progressively reduces the eligible amount by 10% annually, following an initial 20% on 1 January 2014, until they are fully phased out by 1 January 2022. Under CRD IV, banks should maintain a Pillar 1 tier 1 buffer of 1.5% of RWAs and a tier 2 buffer of 2.0% of RWAs. Going forward, as the grandfathering provisions fall away, we intend to meet these buffers in an economic manner by issuing non-equity capital as necessary. At 31 December 2013, the Group had US$11.7bn of CRD IV compliant, non-equity capital instruments and US$37.8bn of non-equity capital instruments qualifying as eligible capital under CRD IV by virtue of application of the grandfathering provisions, after applying the 20% reduction outlined above. For a full disclosure of the CET1, tier 1 and total capital position on a ‘transitional basis’ at 31 December 2013, see Appendix III of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report. 310 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of current rules to CRD IV end point rules (Unaudited) Final textAt 31 December 2013 July 2011 text1At 31 December 2012 RWAs US$m Capital US$m RWAs US$m Capital US$m Reported core tier 1 capital under the current regime 149,051 138,789 Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Foreseeable interim dividend (3,005 ) – Deconsolidation of insurance undertakings in reserves (6,387 ) – Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1 (1,311 ) (2,299 ) Debit valuation adjustment (451 ) (372 ) Own credit spread on trading liabilities 75 – Removal of filters under current regime: – unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities (2,595 ) (1,223 ) – unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities 1,474 2,088 – reserves arising from revaluation of property 1,281 1,202 Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles 299 267 Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences) (680 ) (456 ) Defined benefit pension fund liabilities (1,213 ) (1,596 ) Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as PVA) (2,006 ) (1,720 ) Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component (exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock) (677 ) (1,322 ) Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1 (2,874 ) (3,084 ) Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses (151 ) (111 ) Securitisations positions risk-weighted under CRD IV 1,684 1,776 Deductions under threshold approach Amount exceeding the 10% threshold: – significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance – (6,097 ) Amount in aggregate exceeding the 15% threshold: – significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance – (2,029 ) – deferred tax assets – (1,310 ) Estimated CET1 capital under CRD IV 132,514 122,503 Reported total RWAs 1,092,653 1,123,943 Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight 38,713 45,940 Credit valuation adjustment 30,726 60,360 Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV 42,288 44,513 Other movements 10,559 17,099 Estimated total RWAs under CRD IV 1,214,939 1,291,855 Estimated CET1 ratio 10.9% 9.5% Estimated regulatory impact of management actions Management actions completed in 2013: Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change in accounting treatment (38,880 ) (2,150 ) Completion of the second tranche of the disposal of Ping An 3,522 9,393 Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 1,256,497 129,746 Estimated CET1 ratio after management actions completed in 2013 10.3% For footnote, see page 318. 311 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) The main effect of the CRD IV final rules compared with those at 31 December 2012, when the estimated impact was based on the earlier July 2011 draft text, is detailed below. To effect the deduction of significant investments in insurance companies from CET1, consistent with the treatment in our Interim Report 2013, we have removed from the Group consolidated reserves the contribution of our insurance business and calculated the amount of the insurance holding deduction, subject to threshold calculations, at cost. The regulatory treatment of insurance holdings was clarified in the final PRA rules set out in PS 7/13. The change in treatment had a negative capital impact of US$6.4bn on our reserves and resulted in the value of our ‘significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance’ falling below the threshold amounts for deduction. The estimated amount of capital deduction for non-significant (or ‘immaterial’) holdings of financial sector entities has changed upon finalisation of the CRD IV text. At 31 December 2012, we quantified the effect of management actions estimated to be necessary to negate a capital deduction against this item. This followed an interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV text around the restriction in the rules for netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short position has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year. For our interim results, following confirmation of the legislation, we changed the basis of presentation of the CRD IV estimated capital position, to reflect further regulatory clarification and the anticipated impact of management actions that while contemplated at that time, could not be concluded ahead of final rules. Consequently, the presentation of the capital position at 31 December 2012 was changed to take into account the effect of those management actions on immaterial holdings. At 31 December 2013, following evolving regulatory discussions, as well as systems enhancements, we have been able to more effectively match our long and short positions under one year maturity. In addition, we have now executed selected management actions to optimise our maturity profile and make best use of matching opportunities. These measures have brought our net long position below the deduction threshold. The EBA’s publication of their final draft regulatory technical standards (‘RTS’) on ‘Own Funds – Part III’ on 13 December 2013 elaborates on the capital calculation of holdings of capital instruments of financial sector entities. The draft contains significant change from the initial consultation and is still due for consideration and adoption by the European Commission. We are monitoring developments and depending upon the final standard we will consider the effect, together with any further management actions. Our CET1 capital ratio at 31 December 2013 was reduced by US$3bn to reflect our prospective fourth interim dividend declared, net of projected scrip dividend, which will be paid in 2014. This represents a change in our basis of preparation to reflect CRD IV final rules. A notable change compared with our 31 December 2012 estimates relates to the CVA risk capital charge, which decreased to US$30.7bn, mainly as a result of the introduction of exemptions under the final CRD IV rules. Other movements in our RWAs include residual credit risk items following the finalisation of the rules and their respective systems implementation. The latter will continue as future regulatory proposals are published in finalised form. For a detailed description of the items above, see the Appendix to Capital, page 324. Leverage ratio (Unaudited) The leverage ratio was introduced into the Basel III framework as a non-risk-based backstop limit, to supplement risk-based capital requirements. It aims to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector, introducing additional safeguards against model risk and measurement errors. The ratio is a volume-based measure calculated as Basel III tier 1 capital divided by total on- and off-balance sheet exposures. Basel III provides for a transitional period for the introduction of this ratio, comprising a supervisory monitoring period that started in 2011 and a parallel run period from January 2013 to January 2017. The parallel run will be used to assess whether the proposed minimum ratio of 3% is appropriate, with a view to migrating to a Pillar 1 requirement from 1 January 2018. In November 2013, the PRA issued a supervisory statement on leverage and capital ratios which requires major UK banks from 1 January 2014 to meet a 3% CRD IV end point tier 1 leverage ratio but after taking deductions to reflect the FPC’s assessment of expected future losses, future costs of conduct redress and adjusting for a more prudent 312 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) calculation of risk weights, as published previously in June 2013. In January 2014, the Basel Committee published its finalised leverage ratio framework, along with the public disclosure requirements applicable from 1 January 2015. Under CRD IV, the final calibration and legislative proposals are expected to be determined following a review of the revised Basel proposals and the basis of the EBA’s assessment of the impact and effectiveness of the leverage ratio during a monitoring period from 1 January 2014 until 30 June 2016. Monitoring leverage has been part of HSBC’s regulatory reporting since December 2010. From the 2012 year end, ahead of the Basel III disclosure timeline, UK banks were required by the PRA to disclose an estimated leverage ratio at year-end and mid-year, using a hybrid of Basel III and CRD IV rules. In January 2014, the PRA issued a letter to major UK banks setting out the approach to be taken for calculating the leverage ratio for year-end 2013 Pillar 3 disclosures. This confirmed that the calculation of the leverage ratio is conceptually unchanged and will continue to be based on a hybrid of Basel III and CRD IV basis. The numerator is now calculated using the final CRD IV end point tier 1 (rather than draft) capital definition. The calculation of the exposure measure will continue to be based on the December 2010 Basel III text. It should be noted that this PRA-prescribed basis for disclosing the leverage ratio is not aligned with the November 2013 supervisory statement, the CRD IV final rules or the Basel Committee’s final proposals on the Basel III leverage ratio. However, the CRD IV basis is expected to be aligned to Basel during 2014. For a detailed basis of preparation of the leverage ratio, see the Appendix to Capital, page 328. Estimated leverage ratio (Unaudited) PRA-prescribedbasisUS$bn At 31 December 2013 Total assets per financial balance sheet 2,671 Adjustment to reverse netting of loans and deposits allowable under IFRS 93 Reversal of the accounting values: (482 ) Derivatives (282 ) Repurchase agreement and Securities finance (200 ) Replaced with regulatory values: 386 Derivatives 239 Repurchase agreement and Securities finance 147 Addition of off balance sheet commitments and guarantees: 388 Guarantees and contingent liabilities 85 Commitments 295 Other 8 Exclusion of items already deducted from the capital measure (28 ) Exposure measure after regulatory adjustments 3,028 Tier 1 capital under CRD IV (end point) 133 Estimated leverage ratio (end point) 4.4% Tier 1 capital under CRD IV (including instruments that will be ineligible for inclusion after Basel III transitional period has fully elapsed) 149 Estimated leverage ratio (including instruments that will be ineligible for inclusion after Basel III transitional period has fully elapsed) 4.9% At 31 December 2012 Estimated leverage ratio (end point) 4.2% Estimated leverage ratio (including instruments that will be ineligible for inclusion after Basel III transitional period has fully elapsed) 4.8% 313 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Future developments (Unaudited) UK regulatory update The UK financial services regulatory structure has undergone substantial reform following the abolition of the FSA and the establishment of three new regulatory bodies on 1 April 2013. These three bodies comprise the FPC, a committee of the Bank of England, the PRA, a subsidiary of the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’). The PRA and the FCA are the supervisors inheriting the majority of the FSA’s functions. The FPC is responsible for macro-prudential supervision, focusing on systemic risk that may affect the UK’s financial stability. UK authorities have a number of areas of ongoing regulatory focus. A common theme is the ability of banks’ internal models to adequately capture the risk of the portfolio. During 2013, the PRA proposed a wholesale loss given default (‘LGD’) and exposure at default (‘EAD’) framework to UK banks that includes the treatment of low-default portfolios. This imposed LGD and EAD floors based on the foundation approach in the case of portfolios with data quality shortcomings and also those with fewer than 20 events of default per country. In December 2013, the PRA concluded its review of HSBC and confirmed that the floors should be implemented across a range of portfolios by the end of March 2014. Work is underway to implement the change, which is currently estimated to have a negative impact on our CET1 ratio in the range of 25bps to 35bps. In December 2013, the PRA issued its Supervisory Statement SS13/13 in relation to Market Risk. This requires firms to identify risks not adequately captured by models and to hold additional funds against those under its Risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework. In assessing these risks, no offsetting or diversification will be allowed across risk factors. To align with this, we are currently reviewing and revising our methodology. In July 2013, the EBA published a consultation paper on prudent valuation together with a Quantitative Impact Study. We await the outcome of the EBA consultation process and the finalised standard during 2014. Systemically important banks In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document in July 2011, ‘Global systemically important banks: assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement’. In November 2011, it published its rules and the Financial Stability Board (‘FSB’) issued the initial list of global systemically important banks (‘G-SIB’s). This list, which includes HSBC and 28 other major banks from around the world, will be re-assessed periodically through annual re-scoring of the individual banks and a triennial review of the methodology. The banks included in the list, depending on their relative ranking, will be required to hold a buffer in the form of CET1 capital on a scale between 1% and 2.5%.The requirements, initially for those banks identified as G-SIBs in November 2014, on the basis of end-2013 data, are envisaged to be phased in from 1 January 2016, becoming fully effective on 1 January 2019. However, national regulators have discretion to introduce higher thresholds than the minima. In July 2013, the Basel Committee issued updated final rules, ‘Global systemically important banks: updated assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement’. Based on this, in November 2013 the FSB and the Basel Committee updated the list of G-SIBs, using end-2012 data. One more institution was added to the list of 28 banking groups identified as G-SIBs in 2012, increasing the overall number to 29. The add-on of 2.5% previously assigned to HSBC was left unchanged. The EBA is currently consulting on the implementation of the Basel methodology within the EU. Regulatory capital buffers CRD IV, in addition to giving effect to the Basel Committee’s surcharge for G-SIBs in the form of a global systemically important institutions buffer (‘G-SIIB’), establishes a number of additional 314 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) capital buffers, to be met by CET1 capital, broadly aligned with the Basel III framework. CRD IV contemplates that these will be phased in from 1 January 2016, subject to national discretion. These new capital requirements include a capital conservation buffer designed to ensure banks build up capital outside periods of stress that can be drawn down when losses are incurred, set at 2.5% of RWAs. Additionally, CRD IV sets out a systemic risk buffer (‘SRB’) for the financial sector as a whole, or one or more sub-sectors, to be deployed as necessary by each EU member state with a view to mitigate structural macro-prudential risk. It is expected that, if such a risk was found to be prevalent, the SRB would be set at a minimum of 1% of the exposures to which it would apply. This is not restricted to exposures within the member state itself. To the extent it would apply at a global level, it is expected that the higher of the G-SIIB and the SRB would apply. To implement the CRD IV capital buffers in the UK, in August 2013 the PRA issued a consultation proposing changes to the Pillar 2 framework and explaining its interaction with the buffers. Under the Pillar 2 framework, banks are already required to hold capital in respect of the internal capital adequacy assessment and supervisory review which leads to a final determination by the PRA of individual capital guidance under Pillar 2A. This is currently met by total capital, and in accordance with PS 7/13, is now to be met 56% by CET1 from 1 January 2015. The PRA also proposed to introduce a PRA buffer, to replace the current capital planning add-on (known as Pillar 2B), also to be held in the form of CET1 capital. The PRA buffer is intended to be calculated independently and then compared to the extent to which other CRD IV buffers may already cover the same risks. Depending upon the business undertaken by an individual firm, the PRA has stated its expectation that the capital conservation buffer and relevant systemic buffers should serve a similar purpose to the PRA buffer and therefore be deducted from it. In PS 7/13, the PRA delayed the publication of the remaining rules on capital buffers, pending confirmation from HM Treasury of the UK authority responsible for setting the systemic buffers. The designated UK authority will have the discretion to set the precise buffer rates above the CRD IV minima and to accelerate the timetable for their implementation. CRD IV also contemplates a cyclical buffer in line with Basel III, in the form of an institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer (‘CCB’), to protect against future losses where unsustainable levels of leverage, debt or credit growth pose a systemic threat. Should a CCB be required, it is expected to be set in the range of 0-2.5%, whereby the rate shall consist of the weighted average of the CCB rates that apply in the jurisdictions where relevant exposures are located. In January 2014, the FPC issued a policy statement on its powers to supplement capital requirements, through use of the CCB and the Sectoral Capital Requirements (‘SCR’) tools. The CCB allows the FPC to raise capital requirements above the micro-prudential level for all exposures to borrowers in the UK. The SCR is a more targeted tool which allows the FPC to increase capital requirements above minimum regulatory standards for exposures to three broad sectors judged to pose a risk to the stability of the financial system as a whole: residential and commercial property; and other parts of the financial sector, potentially on a global basis. In October 2013, the Bank of England published a discussion paper ‘A framework for stress testing the UK banking system’. The framework replaces the current stress testing for the capital planning buffer with annual concurrent stress tests, the results of which are expected to inform the setting of the PRA buffer, the CCB, sectoral capital requirements and other FPC recommendations to the PRA. The PRA is expected to further consult on Pillar 2, the transition to the PRA buffer and the relationship between the PRA buffer and the stress testing exercise in 2014. Until outstanding consultations are published and guidance issued, there remains uncertainty as to the interaction between these buffers, the exact buffer rate requirements and the ultimate capital impact. For a high-level representation of the proposed buffers under the new regime, see figure below. 315 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Potential effect of regulatory proposals on HSBC’s capital requirements Given the developments outlined above, it remains uncertain what HSBC’s final capital requirement will be. However, elements of the capital requirements that are known to date are as follows: % Minimum CET112 4.5 Capital conservation buffer12 2.5 G-SIIB buffer (to be phased in up to 2019)13 2.5 In December 2011, against the backdrop of eurozone instability, the EBA recommended that banks aim to reach a 9% EBA-defined core tier 1 ratio by the end of June 2012. In July 2013, the EBA replaced the 2011 recapitalisation recommendation with a new measure on capital preservation. This equates for HSBC to US$104bn, compared with actual core tier 1 capital held of US$141bn at 30 June 2013. To monitor this, banks submitted additional reporting and capital plans in November 2013 to demonstrate that appropriate levels of capital are being preserved. The EBA indicated they will review this recommendation by December 2014. RWA integrity In July 2013, the Basel Committee published its findings on the ‘Analysis of risk-weighted assets for credit risk in the banking book’, reporting that while the majority of RWA variability arises from the underlying credit quality of a portfolio, differences also arise from banks’ choices under the IRB approach. One of its recommendations to counteract this variance was the introduction of new or increased capital floors. In parallel with the above and as part of the review of the Basel capital framework, also in July 2013, the Basel Committee published a discussion paper on its findings, ‘The regulatory framework: balancing risk sensitivity, simplicity and comparability’. The Basel Committee proposed that a range of measures should be considered, including the possibility of additional floors, as a potential tool to constrain the effect of variation in RWAs derived from internal model outputs, to provide further comfort that banks’ risks are adequately capitalised and to make capital ratios more comparable. In November 2013, the FPC postponed a decision on whether to propose parallel RWA disclosures by UK banks on the Basel standardised approach, pending further assessment by the PRA of the merits, cost and benefits of such a proposition. In December 2013, the EBA published the final results of its investigation into RWAs in the banking book, aimed at identifying any material difference in RWA outcomes between banks and understanding the sources of such differences. The report concluded that differences in implementation of the IRB approach were linked to differences in practice on the part of both supervisors and banks. The EBA set out a number of policy recommendations to address its findings. These include enhancing the disclosure and transparency of RWA-related information, supporting supervisors in properly implementing the single rulebook with the delivery of existing mandates set out in CRD IV and developing additional guidance that specifically addresses and facilitates consistency in supervisory and bank practice. We are reviewing these proposals and aim to further develop the measures that have already been taken to support and provide transparency to our metrics, such as RWA flow analysis (on pages 302 and 303) and RWA density analysis (on page 36 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report), which reflects our compliance with the EDTF framework. Structural banking reform The Independent Commission on Banking (‘ICB’) published its final report in September 2011 and the UK government expressed broad approval for the principle of establishing a ring-fenced bank for retail banking activities and greater loss absorbing capacity. In December 2013, the UK’s Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 received Royal Assent, 316 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) becoming primary legislation. It implements the recommendations of the ICB and of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, which inter alia establish a framework for ‘ring-fencing’ the UK retail banking from trading activities, and sets out requirements for loss absorbency in the form of equity capital and loss absorbing debt. The PRA, subject to the approval of HM Treasury, is empowered to require banking groups to restructure their operations if it considers that the operation of the ring-fence in a group is proving to be ineffective. The exercise of these powers may lead to groups being required to split their retail and investment banking operations into separate corporate groups. A consultation has also taken place on draft secondary legislation setting out further details but the underlying rules from supervisory authorities are not yet available. The UK Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 also creates a ‘bail-in’ mechanism as an additional resolution tool alongside existing options to transfer all or part of the bank to a private sector purchaser, to transfer parts of the bank to a new ‘bridge’ bank which is later sold or takes the bank into temporary public sector ownership. In a ‘bail-in’, shareholders and creditors in the bank have their investments written down in value or converted into new interests (such as new shares) without the bank being placed in liquidation. This allows the bank to continue to provide its core banking services without interruption and ensures that the solvency of the bank is addressed without taxpayer support, while also allowing the Bank of England to provide temporary funding to this newly solvent bank. Certain liabilities such as deposits protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme are excluded from bail-in. It is intended that these bail-in provisions will be consistent with the European Recovery and Resolution Directive once it comes into force. The UK government intends to complete the legislative process by the end of this Parliament in May 2015 and to have reforms in place by 2019. In February 2012, the European Commission appointed a High Level Expert Group under the Governor of the Bank of Finland, Erkki Liikanen, to consider potential structural changes in banks within the EU. The group recommended, inter alia, the ring-fencing of certain market-making and trading activities from the deposit-taking and retail payments activities of major banks and possible amendments to the use of bail-in instruments as a resolution tool, as well as a number of other comments. In January 2014, following a consultation period, the European Commission published its own legislative proposals on the structural reform of the European banking sector which would prohibit proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities, and enable supervisors to require trading activities such as market-making, complex derivatives and securitisation operations to be undertaken in a separate subsidiary from deposit taking activities. The ring-fenced deposit taking entity would be subject to separation from the trading entity including capital and management structures, issuance of own debt and arms-length transactions between entities. The proposals allow for derogation from these requirements for super-equivalent national regimes. On the current basis, it is understood that non-EU subsidiaries of the Group which could be separately resolved without a threat to the financial stability of the EU would be excluded from the proposals. The proposals will now be subject to discussion in the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers (representing the EU member states) and are not expected to be finalised in 2014. The implementation date for any separation under the final rules would depend upon the date on which the final legislation is agreed. The relationship between the UK, French, German and any EU proposals has still to be clarified (as does the interactivity between any of these proposals and the US Volcker Rule), although the G20 has asked the FSB, in collaboration with the IMF and OECD, to assess the cross-border consistency and global financial stability implications of structural measures, to be completed by the end of 2014. 317 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Footnotes to Capital 1 The basis of preparation for the calculation of the CET1 ratio is detailed on page 324. The CET1 ratio presented for 31 December 2012 has changed from the presentation in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and is shown post anticipated management actions to mitigate capital deductions for non-significant holdings of financial sector entities, consistent with the Interim Report 2013. Selected management actions have since been undertaken. 2 The value represents marked-to-market method only. 3 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years’ revenues. For business disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not removed immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time. The RWAs for the CRS business represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business. 4 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 5 There has been a change to the calculation of the key drivers of RWA movements in 2013, which is now performed at a more granular level to include global businesses. See page 322 for the basis of preparation and supporting notes. 6 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2013. 7 Mainly comprises unrealised gains/losses on available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs. 8 Under PRA rules, unrealised gains/losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources. 9 Under PRA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period. 10 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities. Due to the expiry of the transitional provision, with effect from 1 January 2013, material insurance holding companies acquired prior to 20 July 2006 are deducted 50% from tier 1 and 50% from total capital at 31 December 2013. 11 Includes own credit spread on trading liabilities. 12 In November 2013, the PRA published its expectations that from 1 January 2014, capital resources should be held equivalent to at least 7% of risk-weighted assets using a Basel III end point definition of CET1 but after taking into account any adjustments set by the PRA to reflect the FPC’s capital shortfall exercise recommendations. We assume but it has not yet been confirmed that the 7% equates to the 4.5% minimum CET1and the 2.5% capital conservation buffer requirements. 13 The systemic buffers are still pending transposition in the UK. 318 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Appendix to Capital Capital management, capital measurement and RWA movement Capital management (Audited) Approach and policy Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate. Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis. The metric combines return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives. It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times. Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner. The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital. Whilst also monitoring capital at a Group level on a Basel II basis, we set our internal target on an end point Basel III CET1 basis. Capital measures • market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC; • invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off; • economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed; and • regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies. Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks. Stress testing In addition to our internal stress tests, the Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. Supervisory requirements are increasing in frequency and in the granularity with which the results are required. These exercises include the programmes of the PRA, the Federal Reserve Board, The EBA, the ECB and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, as well as stress tests undertaken in many other jurisdictions. We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital requirements. Risks to capital Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on both the core tier 1 and CET1 capital ratios. In addition, other risks may be identified which have the potential to affect our RWAs and/or capital position. These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital. The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary. The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB. Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking into account capital costs. Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements. Risk-weighted asset targets RWA targets for our global businesses are established in accordance with the Group’s strategic direction and risk appetite, and approved through the Group’s annual planning process. As these targets are deployed to lower levels of management, action plans for implementation are developed. These may include growth strategies; active portfolio management; restructuring; business and/or customer-level reviews; RWA efficiency and optimisation initiatives and 319 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) risk-mitigation. Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board. Business performance against RWA targets is monitored through regular reporting to the Group ALCO. The management of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items. Analysis is undertaken in the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in the position, such as book size and book quality. Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-to-day control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology. Capital generation HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance and profit retention. As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries. Capital measurement and allocation (Unaudited) The PRA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements. In 2013, we calculated capital at a Group level using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5, and on an end point Basel III basis. Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II rules and Basel III rules. However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities. Basel II is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline. The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and, in the UK, the predecessor to the PRA then gave effect to the CRD by including the latter’s requirements in its own rulebooks. Regulatory capital For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely core tier 1, other tier 1 and tier 2, depending on the degree of permanency and loss absorbency exhibited. • core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders’ equity and related non-controlling interests. The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders’ equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy; • qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital; and • tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available for sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties. To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the PRA’s rules set restrictions on the amount of hybrid capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and limits overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital. Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements. These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs. 320 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Credit risk capital requirements Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements. The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties. Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories. The next level, the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterparty’s probability of default (‘PD’), but their estimates of exposure at default (‘EAD’) and loss given default (‘LGD’) are subject to standard supervisory parameters. Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD. The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation. Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD. Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances. For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches. Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB approaches. At the end of 2013, the majority of our portfolios in Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced IRB approaches. Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment. • Counterparty credit risk CCR arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions. It is calculated in both the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method. These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced. We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR. Our longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach. • Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books. For non-trading book securitisation positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB approaches. Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%. Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital. Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations. The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches. Other traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the PRA. Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the PRA, or the PRA’s standard rules. Our internal market risk models comprise VaR, stressed VaR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure. Operational risk capital requirement Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication. The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each of eight defined business lines. Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years’ revenues. 321 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks’ own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital requirements. We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements. Pillar 2 capital requirements We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) to determine a forward looking assessment of our capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan. This process incorporates the Group’s risk management processes and governance framework. A range of stress tests are applied to our base capital plan. These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, are used to assess our internal capital adequacy requirements. The ICAAP is examined by the PRA as part of its Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs periodically to enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC and capital planning buffer where required. Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Pillar 3 of the Basel framework is related to market discipline. It aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to publish, at least annually, a report giving a comprehensive view of their risk profile including specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and the management of these. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report is published on the HSBC website, www.hsbc.com. RWA movement by key driver – basis of preparation and supporting notes (Unaudited) Credit risk drivers – definitions and quantification The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below. The first four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes. The remaining two, book size and book quality, are derived after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers. 1. Foreign exchange movements This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the HSBC company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting. We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question. 2. Acquisitions and disposals This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations. This can be whole businesses or parts of a business. The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the end of the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition. 3. Model updates New/updated models RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models are allocated to this driver. This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling assumptions. Where a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA changes are not assigned here, but instead reported under book quality. RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation. These values are used to simulate the impact of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of implementation, assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation phase. 322 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Portfolios moving onto IRB approach Where a portfolio moves from the standardised approach to the IRB approach, the RWA movement by key driver statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only. The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing phase as with a new/updated model. 4. Methodology and policy Internal regulatory updates This captures the RWA impact resulting from changing the internal treatment of exposures. This may include, but is not limited to, a portfolio or a part of one moving from an existing IRB model onto a standardised model, identification of netting and credit risk mitigation. External regulatory updates This specifies the impact resulting from additional or changing regulatory requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, regulatory-prescribed changes to the RWA calculation. The movement in RWAs is quantified by comparing the RWAs calculated for that portfolio under the old and the new requirements. 5. Book size RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in exposure, as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile. These RWA movements arise in the normal course of business, such as growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs. The RWA movement is quantified as follows: • RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period. • The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted movement in EAD. This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the EAD to RWA percentage is constant throughout the period. As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the number of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken. For each quarter of 2013 this calculation was performed for each HSBC company with an IRB portfolio by global businesses, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, as described in the table below: Basel categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC Central governments and central banks Corporate foundation IRB Qualifying revolving retail exposures Institutions Other advanced IRB Retail SME Corporate advanced IRB Retail mortgages Other retail The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table. 6. Book quality This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers. These are caused by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, change in counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book. The change in RWAs attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of all drivers described above. The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB approach. Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not shown in this statement. If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables. In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position. 323 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Counterparty risk drivers – definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for counterparty credit risk calculates the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 at a more granular level, by using transaction level details provided by regional sites. ‘Foreign exchange movement’ is not a reported layer for counterparty risk drivers, as there is cross currency netting across the portfolio. Market risk drivers – definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called ‘Movements in risk levels’. The market risk RWA driver called ‘Foreign exchange movements and other’ includes foreign exchange movements and additional items which cannot be reasonably assigned to any of the other drivers. Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 2013 position (Unaudited) The table on page 311 presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 and RWA position at 31 December 2013 to the pro forma estimated CET1 and estimated RWAs based on the Group’s interpretation of the final CRD IV legislation and final rules issued by the PRA, supplemented by ongoing regulatory guidance, as applicable. At 31 December 2012, we estimated the impact based on the July 2011 draft CRD IV text. CRD IV was finalised in June 2013 and came into effect on 1 January 2014. The final text of the legislation contains significant provisions for national discretion and in December 2013 the PRA published Policy Statement PS7/13 containing the final rules and supervisory statements implementing CRD IV in the UK. Notwithstanding, there remains considerable areas of uncertainty in the legislation, with numerous formal regulatory technical standards (‘RTS’) and implementing technical standards due for issue by the EBA still to be drafted and finalised by the European Commission, leaving the CRD IV rules subject to significant uncertainty. We have not incorporated the impact of those draft standards in our estimates. Furthermore, PRA consultations on capital buffers and Pillar 2 have been delayed to 2014. As the transposition of the CRD IV rules in the UK was only published in late December, we are still in the process of upgrading our models and systems used to calculate capital numbers in a CRD IV environment. As a consequence, the estimates include manual adjustments and are subject to change. Given the above, the final CRD IV impact on the Group’s CET1 and RWAs may differ from our current estimates. The detailed basis of preparation is described below for items that are different from the rules in application as at 31 December 2013 (‘Basel II/PRA old regime’). We have also outlined where the basis of preparation has changed from our 31 December 2012 disclosures, principally as a result of publication of PRA’s final rules and ongoing regulatory clarification of the rules as understanding evolves. At 31 December 2013, our estimate of individual non-significant holdings in financial sector entities that are, in aggregate, above 10% of the Group’s CET1 capital translates into a net long position amount that is below the threshold for deduction, as a result of management actions executed to optimise our maturity profile and make best use of matching opportunities. Our estimates are based on the CRD IV final rules and ongoing regulatory guidance. The EBA’s publication of their final draft RTS on ‘Own Funds – Part III’ on 13 December 2013 elaborates on the capital calculation of holdings of capital instruments of financial sector entities. The draft contains significant change from initial consultation and still due for consideration and adoption by the European Commission. This is currently under review and depending upon the final standard we will consider what, if any, further management actions will be possible to mitigate any impact. To effect the deduction of significant investments in insurance companies from CET1, we have removed from the Group consolidated reserves the contribution of our insurance business and calculated the amount of the insurance holding deduction, subject to threshold calculations, at cost. The regulatory treatment of insurance holdings was clarified in the final PRA rules as set out in PS 7/13. Following regulatory guidance, our CET1 capital ratio as at 31 December 2013 reflects our prospective fourth interim dividend declared, net of projected scrip dividend, which will be paid in 2014. This represents a change in our basis of preparation. 324 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Key regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Fourth interim dividend: we have deducted the prospective fourth interim dividend from our CET1 capital at 31 December 2013, following our interpretation of the final rules and regulatory clarification. The amount deducted corresponds to the declared dividend, net of the scrip amount estimated based on our historic planning assumptions. This follows CRD IV final rules and represents a change in the basis of preparation compared with 31 December 2012 as well as the current disclosed capital position under Basel II. Deconsolidation of insurance undertakings in reserves: under the Basel II/PRA old regime, the Group consolidated reserves include the post-acquisition reserves of our unconsolidated insurance businesses, which is then reflected in the value of the Basel II deduction from tier 1 and tier 2 capital. The CRD IV rules do not consider such a treatment. However, the PRA stated in PS 7/13 that the treatment contemplated under the PRA old regime was no longer considered appropriate. In accordance with the PRA’s final rules, we have therefore excluded the post-acquisition reserves from our CET1 reserves, leaving the investment to be deducted from CET1 (subject to thresholds) valued at cost. Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component (exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock): the value of our holdings of own CET1 instruments, where it is not already deducted under IFRSs, is deducted from CET1. Under CRD IV, this deduction comprises not only direct but also indirect and synthetic, actual and contingent, banking and trading book gross long positions. Trading book positions are calculated net of short positions only where there is no counterparty credit risk on these short positions (this restriction does not apply to short index positions being offset against other index positions). The EBA’s publication of their final draft RTS on ‘Own Funds – Part III’ on 13 December 2013 elaborates on the capital calculation of holdings of capital instruments of financial sector entities. The draft contains significant change from initial consultation and still due for consideration and adoption by the European Commission. This is currently under review and may change our estimates. Depending upon the final standard we will consider what, if any, management actions will be possible to mitigate any impact. Under Basel II/PRA old regime, there is no regulatory adjustment made to the amounts already deducted under IFRS rules. Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1: non-controlling interests arising from the issue of common shares by our banking subsidiaries receive limited recognition. The excess over the minimum capital requirements of the relevant subsidiary, calculated on the basis of its local reporting as well as its contribution to the parent consolidated requirements, is not allowable in the Group’s CET1 capital to the extent it is attributable to minority shareholders. The final rules require a calculation of the surplus to be undertaken at the sub-consolidated level for each relevant subsidiary. In addition, the calculation of the minimum requirements of the subsidiary includes any additional capital requirements imposed by the local regulations, to the extent those are to be met by CET1 capital. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, there is no regulatory restriction applied to minority interests. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: under CRD IV, there is no adjustment to remove from CET1 capital unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities. The final CRD IV text includes a national discretion for competent authorities to retain a prudential filter for those unrealised gains or losses on exposures to central governments. In PS 7/13, the PRA clarified that they were unlikely to apply such a filter and as a consequence we have not applied such a filter in our estimates. Under Basel II, both unrealised gains and losses are removed from capital (net of tax). Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities and reserves arising from revaluation of property: there is no adjustment for unrealised gains and losses on reserves arising from the revaluation of property and on available-for-sale equities. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, unrealised net gains on these items are included in tier 2 capital (net of deferred tax) and net losses are deducted from tier 1 capital. Defined benefit pension fund assets and liabilities: in line with the Basel II/PRA old regime, the amount of retirement benefit assets as reported on the balance sheet is to be deducted from CET1. At 31 December 2013, the amount of retirement benefit liabilities as reported on the balance sheet was fully recognised in CET1 rather than being replaced by any commitment funding plans as allowed under the Basel II/PRA old regime. 325 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1: the amount of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances is deducted 100% from CET1. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, this amount is deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital. Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses: the amount of expected losses in excess of impairment allowances that is deducted from CET1 capital is not reduced for any related tax effects. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, any related tax credit offset is recognised 50% in core tier 1 and 50% in tier 1 capital. Securitisation positions risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions that were deducted from core tier 1 under the Basel II/PRA old regime have been included in RWAs at 1,250%. Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles: the amount of intangible assets deducted from CET1 has been reduced by the related deferred tax liability. Under Basel II, the goodwill and intangible assets are deducted at their accounting value. Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences): the deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not arise from temporary differences are deducted 100% from CET1. The deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject to the separate threshold deduction approach detailed separately. Under Basel II, these items receive a risk weighting of 100%. Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as prudent valuation adjustment or ‘PVA’): under Basel II, banks are required to comply with requirements for prudent and reliable valuation of any balance sheet position measured at market or fair value. Under CRD IV, all assets and derivatives measured at fair value are subject to specified standards for prudent valuation, covering uncertainty around the input factors into the fair value valuation models – namely, uncertainty around the mark-to-market of positions, model risk, valuation of less liquid positions and credit valuation adjustments. Where the accounting fair value calculated under IFRSs is higher than the valuation amount resulting from the application of the prudential adjustments, this would result in an additional valuation adjustment or PVA deduction from CET1 capital. Following PRA direction, we have included an estimate of the impact of PVA, on a tax-effected basis, based on our current methodology. However, there is guidance outstanding following ongoing EBA consultation. A new consultation paper was issued by the EBA in July 2013 and a Quantitative Impact Study was launched on 22 July 2013 to assess the effect of the proposals. Further clarity on the requirements following finalisation of the EBA process and discussions with our regulator could potentially change this figure. Debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’): the amount of all fair value gains and losses on OTC derivative liabilities that results from changes to our own credit spread are derecognised from CET1. Individually non-significant holdings in CET1 capital of financial sector entities in aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1: under CRD IV, the investments in CET1 instruments of financial sector entities, where we have a holding of not more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by those entities, are deducted from CET1 to the extent the aggregate amount of such holdings exceeds 10% of our CET1 capital (calculated before any threshold deductions). At 31 December 2012 we had quantified the effect of management actions estimated to be necessary to negate a capital deduction against this item. This followed an interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV rules around the restriction in the rules for netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short position has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year. Consistent with our interim disclosures, we have changed the basis of presentation of the CRD IV estimated capital position as at 31 December 2012 in the table on page 311 to reflect the effect of the management actions deemed necessary at the time. At 31 December 2013, following publication of CRD IV and evolving regulatory discussions, as well as systems enhancements, we have been able to more effectively match our long and short positions under one year maturity. In addition, we have now executed selected management actions to optimise our maturity profile and make best use of matching opportunities which bring our net long position below the deduction threshold. The EBA’s publication of their final draft RTS on ‘Own Funds – Part III’ on 13 December 2013 offers clarification on the extent to which we are required to look through holdings in intermediate entities to identify indirect financial 326 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) sector exposures. This is currently under review and depending upon the final standard we will consider the impact and what, if any, further management actions will be taken. Deductions under threshold approach: under CRD IV, where we have a holding of more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by banks, financial institutions and insurance entities which is not part of our regulatory consolidation, that holding is subject to a threshold deduction approach. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, these exposures are deducted 50% from tier 1 capital and 50% from total capital, except for certain insurance holdings that met the requirements under the transitional provision of the current rules and until 31 December 2012 that were allowed to be deducted 100% from total capital. Deferred tax assets that rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised and which arise from temporary differences are also subject to this threshold deduction approach. Under the Basel II/PRA old regime, these assets would be subject to 100% risk weighting. Under CRD IV, the amount of such deferred tax assets and significant investments which individually and in aggregate exceed 10% and 15% respectively of our CET1, are fully deducted from CET1 capital. Amounts falling below the 10% and 15% thresholds are risk-weighted at 250%. Key changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) risk: introduced as a new requirement under CRD IV rules, this is a capital charge to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk, and is referred to as a regulatory CVA risk capital charge. Where we have both specific risk VAR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VAR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge. Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied. We have estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge calculated on a full range of derivative counterparties on the basis of the final CRD IV text, which exempts from the calculation of the CVA risk capital charge certain corporates, retirement benefits pension funds and specific sovereign bodies. We have identified the counterparties falling under the corporates exemption in a manner consistent with their categorisation for the purposes of related EU regulation concerning mandatory clearing of derivatives. We have also exempted applicable sovereigns. At 31 December 2012, we had estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text, without any exemptions. Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight: as explained above, items that fall under the threshold approach treatment under CRD IV, and which are below the 10% and 15% thresholds, are risk-weighted at 250%. Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions which were deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital, and free deliveries (i.e., transactions where payment has been made for securities, foreign currencies or commodities, before receiving them, or where these have been delivered before receiving payment) that were deducted from total capital under current rules, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%. Other movements: includes residual items following the finalisation of the rules and our continued systems implementation of these. Notable items relate to changes in counterparty credit risk, such as the increase in the asset value correlation multiplier for financial counterparties, additional requirements for collateralised counterparties, margin period of risk and new requirements for exposures to central counterparties (‘CCPs’). Similarly for credit risk, this includes key items such as the increase in the multiplier for financial counterparties, the change in the treatment of deferred tax assets and the confirmation of risk weights for immovable property following PRA final rules. 327 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review (continued) Leverage ratio: basis of preparation (Unaudited) The estimated tier 1 capital figure is based on an ‘end point Basel III’ definition of tier 1 capital applicable from 1 January 2022, applying the final CRD IV rules published in June 2013. We have calculated our tier 1 capital in accordance with the basis of preparation outlined on page 324. We also disclose an estimated leverage ratio which includes, in our tier 1 capital, instruments that will be ineligible for inclusion after the Basel III transitional period has fully elapsed. The total exposures are calculated according to the December 2010 Basel III rules text, the instructions for the Basel III July 2012 Quantitative Impact Study, its related Frequently Asked Questions and the PRA’s guidance on the methodologies used there. They are based on financial accounting rules for on- and off-balance exposures, adjusted as follows: • the scope of netting for derivatives and securities financing transactions (‘SFTs’) is extended to all scenarios where we would recognise a netting agreement for Basel II regulatory purposes, except for cross-product netting which is not permitted. For SFTs, only cash payables and receivables are netted and not securities provided or received; • the inclusion of potential future exposure add-ons for both OTC and exchange-traded derivatives; • off-balance sheet items are included in full except for commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by HSBC without prior notice, where only 10% of the exposures are included; • the exclusion of items deducted from the calculation of end point tier 1 capital; and • for investments in banking associates that are equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation but proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes, the accounting treatment is used. It should be noted that this PRA-prescribed basis for disclosing the leverage ratio is not at this time aligned with the November 2013 supervisory statement, the CRD IV final rules or the Basel Committee’s final proposals on the Basel III leverage ratio. 328 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Page App1 Corporate Governance Report 329 Letter from the Group Chairman 329 Directors 330 Secretary 335 Group Managing Directors 336 Board of Directors 338 Directors 338 Corporate governance codes 346 Board committees 347 Group Management Board 347 Group Audit Committee 348 Group Risk Committee 352 Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 358 Group Remuneration Committee 360 Nomination Committee 361 Corporate Sustainability Committee 362 Internal control 364 Statement on going concern 367 Employees 367 Reward 367 Employee relations 367 Diversity and inclusion 367 Employee development 368 Employment of disabled persons 368 Health and safety 368 Remuneration policy 368 Employee share plans 369 Other required disclosures 371 Share capital 372 Directors’ interests 375 Dividends and shareholders 376 2013 Annual General Meeting 371 1 Appendix to Report of the Directors. Corporate Governance Report The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 329 to 415 and information incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate Governance Report of HSBC Holdings. The reports of Board Committees are contained within the Corporate Governance Report. Letter from the Group Chairman Dear Shareholder During 2013, your Board has taken positive steps to enhance the Group’s corporate governance framework globally, in part to reflect the heightened expectations of all of our stakeholders. We believe that a robust and transparent corporate governance framework is vital to the sustainable success of HSBC. The Board has a critical role in overseeing the transformation agenda which is underway to simplify the way we run the Group, making it easier to manage and control. Management’s focus on the transformation agenda reflects HSBC’s three strategic priorities: to implement Global Standards, grow the business and to simplify and streamline processes. At each of its meetings and through its Committees, the Board reviews progress made on implementation of this agenda and challenges management over the speed of delivery and options considered. Strengthening our corporate governance framework to support the successful implementation of our Global Standards programme, which includes enhancement of compliance-related controls and standards relating to financial crime risk, is a continuing priority focus within the Board’s agenda. As an early indication of the Board’s commitment to support the transformation agenda, at the start of 2013 we established the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) chaired by Rona Fairhead. Throughout the year this committee has overseen our progress in achieving enhanced standards and has provided valuable input in connection with the controls and procedures adopted to underpin them. It has also, with the support of its advisers, worked to identify emerging risks, such as cyber security, and challenged management on its plans to address such risks. A key element of its work in 2013 has been on bolstering ‘Know Your Customer’ and ‘Enhanced Due Diligence’ procedures, recommending to the Board revisions and enhancements to existing practices. In January 2014, the Board approved and adopted revised Global Sanctions and Global Anti-Money Laundering Programme Policies, to facilitate implementation and assurance of globally consistent practices. Adherence to these enhanced standards is vital to ensure we adopt globally the high behavioural and compliance standards consistent with our brand and which meet all of our commitments under the deferred prosecution agreement entered into with the US Department of Justice in December 2012 as well as associated legal and regulatory undertakings. 329 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) The emphasis we place on adhering to high behavioural standards and ‘doing the right thing’ has led us to establish a further new Board Committee, the Conduct & Values Committee (‘CVC’), which will be chaired by Rachel Lomax. The CVC, which incorporates much of what was previously done in the Corporate Sustainability Committee, will, with a much expanded role, oversee the design and application of our policies, procedures and standards to ensure that we conduct business responsibly and consistently adheres to HSBC Values. The CVC will focus on the key themes that underpin our commitment to meeting societal expectations of the banking sector; treating customers fairly and openly, doing business with the right clients, doing business the right way, being a responsible employer, acting responsibly towards the communities in which HSBC operates and treating all stakeholders fairly. We recognise, and are preparing for, the specific challenges resulting from continuing regulatory and legislative changes, such as the corporate governance aspects of the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive IV, proposals for a senior persons regime now contained in the 2014 Banking Reform Act and support for the establishment of a professional standards body for banking in the UK. Ensuring we have a diverse balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is a fundamental aspect of successful corporate governance. In my statement to shareholders on pages 3 to 5, I welcomed Kathleen Casey, who will join the Board on 1 March 2014, bringing extensive experience of financial services regulation. Sir Jonathan Evans, who joined the Board on 6 August 2013, has added considerable insight on emerging risks and threats and will take over the chairmanship of the FSVC during the second quarter of this year. The Board has also been strengthened by the appointment of Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer, as an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014. This reflects the criticality of the Risk function. On behalf of the Board and with the very capable leadership of its new and existing committees, I can assure you that your Directors remain committed to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance wherever we operate. This is key to the Group’s ability to capitalise on the opportunities arising from successful implementation of our strategic priorities. D J Flint, Group Chairman 24 February 2014 Directors Douglas Flint, CBE, 58 Group Chairman Skills and experience: Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers. Fellow of The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. Extensive governance experience gained through membership of the Boards of HSBC and BP p.l.c.; considerable knowledge of finance and risk management in banking, multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities trading operations; honoured with a CBE in recognition of his services to the finance industry. Joined HSBC in 1995 as Group Finance Director. Appointed Group Chairman: 2010 Appointed to the Board: 1995 Current appointments include: A director of The Hong Kong Association and Chairman of the Institute of International Finance. A member of the Mayor of Beijing’s International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council as well as the Mayor of Shanghai’s International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council; a member of the International Advisory Board of the China Europe International Business School, Shanghai; an independent external member of the UK Government’s Financial Services Trade and Investment Board since 20 September 2013, and by invitation from the Prime Minister a British Business Ambassador from January 2014. Former appointments include: Group Finance Director; Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director, Risk and Regulation. Co-Chairman of the Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III; Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council’s review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control; member of the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Board; served on the Large Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the Consultative Committee of the Large Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs; partner in KPMG; and non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of BP p.l.c.. Stuart Gulliver, 54 Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Group Management Board Skills and experience: A career banker with over 30 years’ international experience with HSBC; has held a number of key roles in the Group’s operations 330 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates; played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking and Markets. Joined HSBC in 1980 as International Officer Trainee. Appointed Group Chief Executive: 2011 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Chairman of the Group Management Board. A member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore International Advisory Panel and the International Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses and Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA. Head of Global Banking and Markets; Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets; Head of Global Markets; Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific; Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and a member of its Supervisory Board; and Chairman of HSBC France. Kathleen Casey†, 47 Member of the Group Audit Committee and Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee with effect from 1 March 2014. Skills and experience: Extensive financial regulatory policy experience. Formerly Commissioner of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, acting as the regulator’s principal representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory dialogues, the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions. Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2014 Current appointments include: Chairman of the Alternative Investment Management Association, Senior Advisor of Patomak Global Partners, member of the Board of Trustees of Pennsylvania State University, the Trust Fund Board of the Library of Congress and the Advisory Council of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Former appointments include: Staff Director and Counsel of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a US Senator. Safra Catz†, 52 Skills and experience: A background in international business leadership, having helped transform Oracle into the largest producer of business management software and the world’s leading supplier of software for information management. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: President and Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation. Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board of directors in 2001. Former appointments include: Managing Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Laura Cha†, GBS, 64 Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability Committee from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. Member of the Conduct & Values Committee since 17 January 2014 and, with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, member of the Nomination Committee. Skills and experience: Extensive regulatory and policy making experience in the finance and securities sector in Hong Kong and mainland China; formerly Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, being the first person outside mainland China to join the Central Government of the People’s Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank; awarded Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Government for public service; formerly Deputy Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong; and has worked in the US and Asia. Appointed to the Board: 2011 Current appointments include: Non-executive Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited; non-official member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR; a Hong Kong Deputy to the 12th National People’s Congress of China; non-executive director of China Telecom Corporation Limited; Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB; member of the State Bar of California and Chairman of the Financial Services Development Council of Hong Kong SAR since 17 January 2013. A non-executive director of Unilever PLC and Unilever N.V. since 14 May 2013. Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s International Advisory Council since July 2004 331 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) and a member of the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s International Advisory Council since 12 July 2013. Hong Kong delegate for the 12th National People’s Congress, People’s Republic of China, since 5 March 2013. Former appointments include: A non-executive director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd., Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson Electric Holdings Limited and Chairman of the University Grants Committee in Hong Kong. Non-executive director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Limited; and Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on Corruption. Ceased to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management on 18 April 2013. Marvin Cheung†, GBS, OBE, 66 Member of the Group Audit Committee. Skills and experience: A background in international business and financial accounting, particularly in Greater China and the wider Asian economy; retired from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than 30 years; awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2009 Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HKR International Limited; non-executive Chairman of the Airport Authority Hong Kong and the Council of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; director of The Association of Former Council Members of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and The Hong Kong International Film Festival Society Ltd; Member of the Working Group on Transportation under the Economic Development Commission of the Hong Kong SAR Government since 17 January 2013 and member of the court of The Open University of Hong Kong since 1 November 2013. Former appointments include: A non-executive director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Hong Kong; council member of the Open University of Hong Kong; and non-official member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong SAR. John Coombe†, 68 Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Group Risk Committee and Group Remuneration Committee. Skills and experience: A background in international business, financial accounting and the pharmaceutical industry. Formerly Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc with responsibility for the group’s financial operations globally. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2005. Due to retire at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Current appointments include: Non-executive Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc and Home Retail Group plc. Former appointments include: An executive director and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc; non-executive director of GUS plc; member of the supervisory board of Siemens AG; Chairman of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors; member of the Accounting Standards Board; and a council member of The Royal Academy of Arts. Sir Jonathan Evans†, 56 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee since 6 August 2013 and, with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, Chairman. Member of the Conduct & Values Committee since 17 January 2014. Skills and experience: Extensive experience in national security policy and operations. Formerly Director General of MI5 with responsibility for the leadership, policy and strategy of the Security Service, including international and domestic counter-terrorism, counter-espionage and counter-proliferation activities and cyber security. Responsibility for the oversight of the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and attended the National Security Council. Appointed to the Board: 6 August 2013. Current appointments include: Senior Associate of Accenture plc since 24 October 2013, a member of the advisory board of Darktrace Limited since 16 September 2013 and a non-executive Director of the UK National Crime Agency since 2 December 2013. 332 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Former appointments include: Various positions in the UK Security Service over a 30-year career, including: Director General; Deputy Director General; Director of International Counter-Terrorism; and Head of the Security Service’s Secretariat. Joachim Faber†, 63 Member and, since 24 May 2013, Chairman of the Group Risk Committee. Skills and experience: A background in banking and asset management with significant international experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New York and London. Former Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of the management board of Allianz SE; 14 years’ experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North America and Japan. Has a doctorate from the University of Administrative Sciences in Speyer. Appointed to the Board: 2012 Current appointments include: Chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Börse AG; Chairman of the Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser SARL; independent director of Coty Inc.; director of Allianz France S.A., Allianz Investment Management GmbH and Allianz Climate Solutions GmbH; member of the advisory boards of the Siemens Group Pension Board, the European School for Management and Technology; member of the supervisory board and Chairman of the audit and risk committee of OSRAM Licht AG since 5 July 2013; and council member of The Hongkong – Europe Business Council since 1 June 2013. Former appointments include: Chairman of Allianz Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH; Chairman of the board of Allianz Global Investors SGR; and member of the board of Allianz SpA and of the supervisory board of Bayerische Börse AG. Ceased to be a member of the German Council for Sustainable Development on 1 July 2013. Rona Fairhead†, CBE, 52 Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee since 18 January 2013. Will cease to be Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Ceased to be Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Nomination Committee and the Group Audit Committee on 24 May 2013. Skills and experience: A background in international industry, publishing, finance and general management. Formerly Chairman and CEO of the Financial Times Group Limited responsible for the strategy, management and operations of a global media and information business and Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day running of the finance function and direct responsibility for global financial reporting and control, tax and treasury. Has a Master’s in Business Administration from the Harvard Business School. Appointed to the Board: 2004. Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. since 1 January 2014. A non-executive member of the board of the UK Government’s Cabinet Office, a non-executive director of The Economist Newspaper Limited and by invitation from the Prime Minister a British Business Ambassador from January 2014. Appointed as a non-executive Director of PepsiCo Inc. with effect from 13 March 2014. Former appointments include: Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Chemical Industries plc; Finance Director of Pearson plc and Chairman and director of Interactive Data Corporation. Ceased to be Chairman and CEO of Financial Times Group Limited and director of Pearson plc on 27 April 2013. Renato Fassbind†, 58 Member and, with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee (subject to regulatory approval). Member of the Group Remuneration Committee since 1 March 2013. Skills and experience: A background in financial accounting and international business. Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG and ABB Group. Has a Master’s in Business Administration and a PhD in Economics from the University of Zurich. Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Current appointments include: Vice Chairman of the supervisory board and member of the audit and compensation committees of Swiss Reinsurance Company; member of the supervisory board and audit committee of Kühne + Nagel International AG; independent director of Oanda Corporation; and member of the supervisory board of the Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority. Former appointments include: Chief Financial 333 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG; Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive, Credit Suisse Group AG; Chief Executive Officer of Diethelm Keller Group; Chief Financial Officer of ABB Group; Chairman of ABB (Switzerland) AG and DKSH AG; and a member of the supervisory board of Winterthur Insurance Company. James Hughes-Hallett†, CMG , SBS, 64 Member of the Nomination Committee and, since 1 January 2013, member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee. Skills and experience: A background in financial accounting and experience of management of a broad range of international businesses, including aviation, insurance, property, shipping, manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US and Australia. Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2005. Due to retire at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Current appointments include: Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited; non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited; Chairman of the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation; member of The Hong Kong Association; and Chairman of the Governing Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art. Former appointments include: A non-executive director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and a trustee of the Dulwich Picture Gallery. Sam Laidlaw†, 58 Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, member of the Nomination Committee. Skills and experience: Significant international experience, particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility for businesses in four continents. Qualified solicitor and Master’s in Business Administration from INSEAD. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc; and Lead Non-executive Board Member of the UK Department for Transport. Former appointments include: Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation; non-executive director of Hanson PLC; Chief Executive Officer of Enterprise Oil plc; President and Chief Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation; and a member of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group. John Lipsky†, 67 Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and, with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, member of the Group Remuneration Committee. Skills and experience: International experience having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and London and interacted with financial institutions, central banks and governments in many countries. Served at the International Monetary Fund as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Director and as Special Advisor. Has a PhD in Economics from Stanford University. Appointed to the Board: 2012 Current appointments include: Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. Co-chairman of the Aspen Institute Program on the World Economy; director of the National Bureau of Economic Research and the Center for Global Development; and member of the advisory board of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and the Council on Foreign Relations. Global Policy Advisor for Anderson Global Macro, LLC since 4 February 2013 and Chairman of World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council on the International Monetary System since 1 June 2013. Former appointments include: Vice Chairman J P Morgan Investment Bank; director of the American Council on Germany and the Japan Society; and a trustee of the Economic Club of New York. Rachel Lomax†, 68 Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee since 17 January 2014. Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee. Skills and experience: Experience in both the public and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the operation of the UK government and financial system. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chairman of the 334 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) International Regulatory Strategy Group and a director of TheCityUK since 1 January 2013; non-executive director of The Scottish American Investment Company PLC, Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited (formerly BAA Limited); member of the Council of Imperial College, London; and President of the Institute of Fiscal Studies. Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and member of the Monetary Policy Committee; Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions and the Welsh Office; and Vice President and Chief of Staff to the President of the World Bank. Ceased to be a non-executive director of Reinsurance Group of America Inc. on 15 May 2013. Iain Mackay, 52 Group Finance Director Skills and experience: Extensive financial and international experience, having worked in London, Paris, US, Africa and Asia. Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief Financial Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc . Appointed to the Board: 2010 Current appointments include: a member of the Group Management Board. Former appointments include: director of Hang Seng Bank Limited; Chief Financial Officer, Asia-Pacific; and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North America Holdings Inc; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare – Global Diagnostic Imaging. Marc Moses, 56 Group Chief Risk Officer Skills and experience: Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. Extensive risk management and financial experience. Joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets. Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 Current appointments include: A member of the Group Management Board. Director of HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited; HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA; and of HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA. Former appointments include: Chief Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets. Formerly European chief financial officer at JP Morgan and audit partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers. Sir Simon Robertson†, 72 Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee and, since 24 May 2013, the Group Remuneration Committee. Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee since 18 January 2013. Skills and experience: A background in international corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, investment banking and financial markets; honoured with a knighthood in recognition of his services to business; extensive international experience having worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US. Appointed Senior Independent Director: 2007 Appointed Deputy Chairman: 2010 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Current appointments include: The founding member of Robertson Robey Associates LLP, formerly Simon Robertson Associates LLP; non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, The Economist Newspaper Limited, NewShore Partners Limited and Troy Asset Management; and trustee of the Eden Project Trust and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund. Former appointments include: Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International; Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson; and non-executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Limited. Ceased to be non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc on 2 May 2013. † Independent non-executive Director. Secretary Ben Mathews, 47 Group Company Secretary Joined HSBC on 11 June 2013 and became Group Company Secretary on 1 July 2013. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Former appointments include: Company Secretary of Rio Tinto plc from 2007 to 7 June 2013; and Company Secretary of BG Group plc. 335 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Group Managing Directors Ann Almeida, 57 Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability Joined HSBC in 1992. A Group Managing Director since 2008. Former HSBC appointments include: Global Head of Human Resources for Global Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah. Samir Assaf, 53 Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Joined HSBC in 1994. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Chairman of HSBC France and director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Former HSBC appointments include: director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited and of HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E.; Head of Global Markets; and Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa. Peter Boyles, 58 Chief Executive, Global Private Banking Joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director since 1 October 2013. A director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited since 12 April 2013. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC France and Continental Europe and a director of HSBC Bank plc. Ceased to be director of HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c on 5 March 2013 and director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG on 31 August 2013. Simon Cooper, 46 Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking Joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director and Chief Executive of Global Commercial Banking since 1 October 2013. A director of HSBC Bank plc since 18 April 2013. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC Korea and Head of Corporate and Investment Banking of HSBC Singapore. Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E on 29 June 2013, director of The Saudi British Bank on 22 September 2013, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited on 1 October 2013, director and Chairman of HSBC Bank Oman on 10 October 2013 and a director of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited on 13 February 2014. Irene Dorner, 59 President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA Joined HSBC in 1986. A Group Managing Director since 1 February 2013. Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, National Association and HSBC USA Inc.; President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC North America Inc. Former HSBC appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad and HSBC Amanah Takaful (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad; Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad; Chief Operating Officer, Treasury and Capital Markets; General Manager of Marketing, General Manager of Human Resources; and General Manager of Premier and Wealth Management, HSBC Bank plc. John Flint, 45 Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director since 1 January 2013. A director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA since 6 June 2013 and of HSBC Bank Canada. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy and Planning; Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global Asset Management; Group Treasurer; and Deputy Head of Global Markets. Pam Kaur, 50 Group Head of Internal Audit Joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director on 1 April 2013. A co-opted member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Council since 1 May 2013. Former appointments include: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche Bank AG; Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer, Restructuring & Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc; Group Head of Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds TSB; and Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, Citigroup. 336 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Alan Keir, 55 Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc Joined HSBC in 1981. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc since 1 October 2013. A Director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG since 31 August 2013, and a director of HSBC France since 10 December 2013. Former HSBC appointments include: Global Head, Global Commercial Banking. Stuart Levey, 50 Chief Legal Officer Joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in January 2012. Former appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of Treasury; Senior Fellow for National Security and Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign Relations; Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General at the US Department of Justice; and Partner at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Botts LLP. Antonio Losada, 59 Chief Executive, Latin America and the Caribbean Joined HSBC in 1973. A Group Managing Director since December 2012. Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A on 28 October 2013. A director of HSBC Bank Argentina S.A, HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC and Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. Director of HSBC North America Holdings from 1 January 2014. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina; and Deputy Head, Personal Financial Services, Brazil. Sean O’Sullivan, 58 Group Chief Operating Officer Joined HSBC in 1980. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Former HSBC appointments include: Group Chief Technology and Services Officer; director and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank plc; and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank Canada. Peter Wong, 62 Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director since 2010. Chairman of HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad. A non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. An independent non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited. Former HSBC appointments include: Vice Chairman of HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd; director of HSBC Bank Australia Limited; and a director of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd. 337 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board of Directors The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings (the ‘Board’) exists to promote the long-term success of the Company and deliver sustainable value to our shareholders. Led by the Group Chairman, it sets the strategy and risk appetite for the Group and approves capital and operating plans presented by management for the achievement of the strategic objectives. Implementation of the strategy is delegated to the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which, in turn, is led by the Group Chief Executive. Directors HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board. The authority of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings where the Board acts collectively. The Directors who served during the year were Safra Catz, Laura Cha, Marvin Cheung, Jim Comey (appointed 4 March 2013 and retired 4 September 2013), John Coombe, Sir Jonathan Evans (appointed 6 August 2013), Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, Renato Fassbind (appointed 1 January 2013), Douglas Flint, Stuart Gulliver, James Hughes-Hallett, Sam Laidlaw, John Lipsky, Rachel Lomax, Iain Mackay, Sir Simon Robertson and John Thornton (retired 24 May 2013). Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed a Director with effect from 1 January 2014. At the time of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 on 24 February 2014, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer and 13 non-executive Directors. Kathleen Casey has been appointed a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2014. The names and brief biographical details of the Directors are included on pages 330 to 335. Executive Directors The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC employees. Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily management of HSBC; they bring an independent perspective, constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Group’s risk profile and the reporting of performance. The non-executive Directors bring a wide variety of experience from the public and private sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises. Non-executive Directors’ terms of appointment The Board has determined the time commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 days per annum. Time devoted to the Company could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees. Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and, subject to re-election by shareholders at Annual General Meetings, are typically expected to serve two three-year terms. The Board may invite a director to serve additional periods. All Directors are subject to annual election by shareholders. Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, including the time commitment expected of each of them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself. Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and a clear division of responsibilities has been approved by the Board to distinguish between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for running HSBC’s business. Descriptions of the roles and responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are available at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/ board-committees. Their key responsibilities are set out below. Key responsibilities Group Chairman – Douglas Flint • Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness. • Develops relationships with governments, regulators and investors. • Leads the Group’s interactions on matters of public policy and regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial services industry. • Maintains corporate reputation and character. • Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief Executive. 338 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Group Chief Executive – Stuart Gulliver • Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans. • Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group Chairman, for recommendation to the Board. • As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director A description of the roles and responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, which has been approved by the Board, is available at http://www.hsbc.com/ investor-relations/governance/board-committees. His key responsibilities are set out below. Key responsibilities Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director – Sir Simon Robertson • Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or shareholders. • Supports the Group Chairman in his role. • Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors when necessary. • Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman. • Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. • Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors The Board may at any time appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five. Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire at the Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment and shall be eligible for election but would not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association. The Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment or executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment. Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a person a Director or remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office. On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in compliance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that all of the Directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders. Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election or re-election, with the exception of John Coombe and James Hughes-Hallett who will retire and will not offer themselves for re-election. Each of the executive Directors is employed, on a rolling contract which requires 12 months’ notice to be given by either party. None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with HSBC. Powers of the Board The Board is responsible for overseeing the management of HSBC globally and, in so doing, may exercise its powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to the Articles. The Board has adopted terms of reference which are available at www.hsbc.com/1/2/about/board-of-directors. The Board reviews its terms of reference annually. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or assets (present or future) of HSBC Holdings and may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the Companies Act 2006 and/or by shareholders. The Board is able to delegate and confer on an executive Director any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fits. In addition, the Board may establish any local or divisional boards or agencies for managing the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on any local or divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. The Board may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may delegate to any such person or persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. The Board delegates the day to day management of HSBC Holdings to the GMB but reserves to itself approval of certain matters including operating plans, risk appetite and performance targets, procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital expenditure or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified senior appointments and any substantial change in balance sheet management policy. HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong under part XI of the Companies Ordinance on 17 January 1991. 339 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board meetings Seven Board meetings and two one-day strategy meetings were held in 2013. At least one Board meeting each year is held in a key strategic location outside the UK. During 2013, Board meetings were held in Hong Kong and Washington DC. The table below shows each Director’s attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or she was a Director during 2013. During 2013, the non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman met once without the other executive Directors. The non-executive Directors also met four times without the Group Chairman, including to appraise the Group Chairman’s performance. Board attendance record Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend as a Director Safra Catz 7 7 Laura Cha 7 7 Marvin Cheung 7 7 Jim Comey1,2 2 3 John Coombe 7 7 Sir Jonathan Evans2,3 2 2 Joachim Faber 7 7 Rona Fairhead 7 7 Renato Fassbind4 7 7 Douglas Flint 7 7 Stuart Gulliver 7 7 James Hughes-Hallett 7 7 Sam Laidlaw 7 7 John Lipsky 7 7 Rachel Lomax 7 7 Iain Mackay 7 7 Sir Simon Robertson 7 7 John Thornton5 3 4 Meetings held in 2013 7 1 Appointed a Director on 4 March 2013 and retired on 4 September 2013. 2 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a Director. 3 Appointed a Director on 6 August 2013. 4 Appointed a Director on 1 January 2013. 5 Retired as a Director on 24 May 2013. Attendance of committee meetings to discharge specific business Eleven meetings of committees of the Board appointed to discharge specific business were held during 2013. The Directors who attended these meetings are shown in the table below. Attendance at committee meetings Meetings Attended Executive Directors Douglas Flint 11 Stuart Gulliver 8 Iain Mackay 7 Non-executive Directors Safra Catz 2 Marvin Cheung 2 Jim Comey 1 John Coombe 3 Joachim Faber 2 Rona Fairhead 1 Renato Fassbind 2 James Hughes-Hallett 1 John Lipsky 2 Rachel Lomax 1 Sir Simon Robertson 2 Board balance and independence of Directors The Board comprises a majority of independent non-executive Directors to ensure that no individual or small group can dominate its decision making. The size of the Board is considered to be appropriate given the complexity and geographical spread of our business and the significant time demands placed on the Directors. The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board (including skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity) and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. The Board has adopted a policy on Board diversity which is consistent with the Group’s strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity for the employee base. Further information on the Board diversity policy can be found on page 362. The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to be independent. Rona Fairhead has served on the Board for more than nine years and, in that respect only, does not meet the usual criteria for independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. She will stand for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The Board has determined Rona Fairhead to be independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding her length of service, taking into account her continuing level of constructive challenge of management and strong contribution to Board discussions. The Board will continue to consider Rona Fairhead’s independence annually. 340 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) When determining independence the Board considers that calculation of the length of service of a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or her election by shareholders following their appointment as a Director of HSBC Holdings. The experience of previous service on an HSBC subsidiary company board can be a considerable benefit and does not detract from a Director’s independence. In reaching its determination of each non-executive Director’s independence, the Board has concluded that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect a Director’s judgement and any relationships or circumstances which could appear to do so were considered not to be material. In accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director determined by the Board to be independent has provided an annual confirmation of his or her independence to HSBC Holdings. Information and support The Board regularly reviews reports on performance against financial and other strategic objectives, business developments and investor and external relations. The chairmen of Board committees and the Group Chief Executive report to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the committees since the previous Board meeting. The Board receives regular reports and presentations on strategy and developments in the global businesses and principal geographical areas. Regular reports are also provided on the Group’s risk appetite, top and emerging risks, risk management, credit exposures and the Group’s loan portfolio, asset and liability management, liquidity, litigation, compliance and reputational issues. The Directors have free and open contact with management at all levels. When attending Board offsite meetings and when travelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors are encouraged to take opportunities to see business operations at first hand and to meet management. Non-executive Directors have an open invitation to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance their understanding and awareness of our businesses and the senior leadership team. Role of the Group Company Secretary All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are complied with. Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group Company Secretary’s responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required. The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Group Chairman on corporate governance matters. The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in advance of all Board and Board committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings. All Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Company’s expense. Induction Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, with particular emphasis on risk management and internal controls systems, are arranged for newly appointed Directors. The programmes consist of a series of meetings with other Directors and senior executives to enable new Directors to familiarise themselves with the business. Directors also receive comprehensive guidance from the Group Company Secretary on directors’ duties and liabilities. As part of their induction, the Group Company Secretary will develop a programme based on an individual Director’s needs. Induction programmes are also arranged for newly appointed members of committees. Training and development Focused in-house training sessions are arranged in conjunction with scheduled Board meetings. Directors attended Board and strategy meetings in 2013 at which briefings on the following topics were given: • RBWM strategy and business update1 • GB&M strategy and business update1 • GPB strategy and business update1 • CMB strategy and business update1 • Information technology1 • Macroeconomic outlook • Regulatory development • Global geopolitics • Recommendations from the Independent Commission of Banking1 341 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) • Central Clearing Counterparties and Collateral Management1 • Financial intelligence systems1 • Shanghai free trade zone1 • Balance Sheet Management1 • Industry outlook1 Except: 1 Jim Comey was not a Director at the time of the briefings. A number of Directors attended a forum for chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees, which included briefings on the following topics: • cyber security; • the changing financial and regulatory reporting landscape; • developments in regulatory capital requirements; and • technical accounting issues A number of Directors attended a forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors, which included briefings on the following topics: • US strategy; • Mexico strategy; • public policy and financial crime; • international co-operation against tax evasion; and • regulatory expectations. Executive Directors In the performance of their roles as Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, respectively, Douglas Flint, Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay develop and refresh their skills and knowledge of the Group’s businesses and operations through day-to-day interactions and briefings with senior management of the Group’s businesses and functions; and presenting on the Group’s businesses to investors and analysts. They remain abreast of developments affecting the financial services sector, and banking in particular, by representing HSBC’s interests at conferences, advisory groups and other events and meetings with regulators and other authorities. During 2013, this included the activities set out below: Douglas Flint Chaired meetings of and gave key note speeches to the International Institute of Finance. Participated in panel discussions and gave key note speeches on economic growth and financial regulation at a number of leading events including the Eurofi High Level Seminar, Asian Leadership Conference, 43rd St. Gallen Symposium and The Salzburg Global Seminar. Attended and participated in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Attended the Global Investment Conference with representatives of the UK Government to discuss how the UK can pursue global growth. Hosted the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA. Stuart Gulliver Participated in a panel discussion at the Singapore Summit, on China in transition. Participated in the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s International Advisory Council on changes in the international banking environment, influence on regulation, banking services for the real economy, financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises and consumer protection and education. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Chaired the Group’s update for investors in London. Iain Mackay Spoke at a conference sponsored by Bank of America Merrill Lynch on making finance work in a higher capital world and the European Conference run by UBS for policymakers and industry experts to share insights into the crucial issues affecting the global economy. Chaired meetings of the European Chief Financial Officers network. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Presented at the Group’s update for investors in London and hosted regular meetings with investors in the UK, the rest of Europe, US and Hong Kong. Participated in the annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees. Non-executive Directors A personalised approach to training and development of non-executive Directors is applied. Non-executive Directors are given opportunities to update and develop their skills and knowledge through briefings by senior executives and externally run seminars. Non-executive Directors have access to internal training and development resources. Development plans and records of training and development activities are maintained by the Group Company Secretary to facilitate the Group Chairman’s annual review of each non-executive Director. In addition to the briefings given at Board meetings of HSBC Holdings, the following non-executive Directors undertook bespoke training sessions and other activities, including attending 342 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board and committee meetings at which briefings were given during 2013 to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills as set out below: Safra Catz Attended a briefing on HSBC’s IT strategy, risk and governance framework which was given at a meeting of the Group Risk Committee. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA. Laura Cha Gave keynote speeches on financial services at a number of Hong Kong institutions. Participated in the Bloomberg 20th Anniversary panel discussion on women and the economy in Hong Kong. Attended meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee at which briefings were given on sustainability in HSBC’s operations in Europe and Asia. As a director and Vice Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation attended bespoke briefings or board meetings at which briefings were given on: specific aspects of the Group’s operations in Hong Kong, Singapore, India and other countries in Asia Pacific; the four global businesses; IT and operations (including real estate issues and the organisational effectiveness programme); finance and risk-related issues (including Basel III, FATCA, stress testing and recovery and resolution planning); and succession planning. Marvin Cheung Attended events for independent non-executive directors organised by KPMG. As a director of Hang Seng Bank attended bespoke briefings on the statutory obligation to disclose inside information and disclosure of interests. Attended meetings of the Group Audit Committee at which briefings were given on developments in regulatory and accounting requirements and the regulatory environment. John Coombe Attended events for non-executive directors run by Tapestry Networks and by Ernst & Young on emerging issues in financial services. Participated in a meeting of audit committee chairmen with the PRA and Bank of England to discuss emerging issues. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA. Attended meetings of Board committees at which briefings were given on: developments in regulatory and accounting requirements; the regulatory environment; the risk control frameworks for the global businesses; Group recovery and resolution planning; risk modelling; stress testing; risk data aggregation; competition law; the remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV; the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards report; and the remuneration reporting regulations issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Co-chaired the annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. Sir Jonathan Evans Attended a regulatory meeting with the FCA. Undertook a personal induction programme comprising bespoke briefings on the four global businesses; the Group’s regional operations; the structure and responsibilities of a number of the Group’s global functions, including: Strategy and Planning; Corporate Sustainability; Risk (including Regulatory and Financial Crime Compliance, security and fraud risk, financial intelligence and client intelligence); Finance; Legal; IT and operations; Human Resources; Internal Audit and corporate governance (including Directors’ duties and obligations, HSBC’s governance structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, international corporate governance codes and listing obligations). Joachim Faber Attended and spoke at conferences on corporate governance. As a member of the German Corporate Governance Codex Commission received regular briefings on corporate governance. Attended a regulatory meeting with the PRA and FCA. Regular interactions with, and receipt of briefings from, the Group Chief Risk Officer. Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were given on: the risk control frameworks for the global businesses; Group recovery and resolution planning; risk modelling; stress testing; risk data aggregation and competition law. Rona Fairhead Attended a regulatory meeting with the FCA. As Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee received a bespoke overview of the US business including strategy, CMB, compliance (including anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act, country risk rating and assessment). Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were given on: the risk control frameworks for CMB and GPB; risk modelling and stress testing. Co-chaired the annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. 343 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Renato Fassbind Attended an event for non-executive directors run by Tapestry Networks. Received bespoke briefings on internal audit issues and RBWM. Attended meetings of committees of the Board at which briefings were given on: developments in regulatory and accounting requirements; the regulatory environment; the remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV; the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards report; and the remuneration reporting regulations issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. James Hughes-Hallett Attended meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee at which briefings were given on sustainability in HSBC’s operations in Europe and Asia. Sam Laidlaw Attended a regulatory meeting with the PRA and FCA. Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration Committee at which briefings were given on the remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV, the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards report and the remuneration reporting regulations issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. John Lipsky Attended and participated in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos, the European Commission conference in Brussels on competitiveness, structural reform and growth in an international context and the HSBC conference in Brussels on European trade and investment as engines of growth. Attended the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund. Received a bespoke briefing on the UK economy. Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were given on: the risk control frameworks for the global businesses; Group recovery and resolution planning; risk meetings; stress testing; risk data aggregation; and competition law. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. Rachel Lomax Attended an event for non-executive Directors run by Tapestry Networks. Attended conferences run by the Ditchley Foundation and the Ditchley Canadian Foundation on European developments and the regulatory aftermath of the financial crisis, respectively. Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and the FCA. Undertook a site visit and received bespoke briefings giving an overview of the Group’s US business. Attended meetings of committees of the Board at which briefings were given on: the regulatory environment and developments in regulatory and accounting requirements; the risk control frameworks for the global businesses; Group recovery and resolution planning; risk modelling; stress testing; risk data aggregation; and competition law. Participated in the annual fora for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees and for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. Sir Simon Robertson Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA and the Federal Reserve Board. Develops and refreshes knowledge of the Group’s businesses and operations through regular interactions with, and receipt of briefings from, the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive as well as other senior executives including the Heads of Financial Crime Compliance and Global Banking and Markets. Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration Committee at which briefings were given on the remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV, the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards report and the remuneration reporting regulations issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Participated in the annual fora for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees and for HSBC Group non-executive Directors. Performance evaluation The Board strongly supports the principle of regular evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its committees and individual Directors. A routine externally facilitated process brings with it added rigour. In October 2013, Bvalco Ltd1 was commissioned for a second year to facilitate and report on the review of effectiveness of the Board, in particular building upon the review undertaken in 2012. The review considered the level and nature of debate at Board meetings, engagement between non-executive Directors and executive management, the relationship and information flows between subsidiaries and the Board and progress made against the actions identified and agreed since the review undertaken in 2012. Bvalco’s report was prepared following interviews with Directors and senior members of management and a review of relevant documents. Bvalco presented their report at a full meeting of the Board. It concluded that the Board is operating 344 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) effectively with a number of important strengths and that significant progress had been made during 2013 to address recommendations made by Bvalco in its 2012 review of the Board’s effectiveness and which were agreed with the Board as part of its annual performance evaluation. This process also enables additional feedback to be provided for the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the principal Board committees. Evaluation of the individual performance of each non-executive Director is undertaken annually by the Group Chairman. During this evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the individual contribution of the Director, explores training and development needs, seeks input on areas where the Director feels he or she could make a greater contribution and discusses whether the time commitment required of the Director can continue to be delivered. Based upon their individual evaluation, the Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the non-executive Directors continue to perform effectively, contribute positively to the governance of HSBC and demonstrate full commitment to their roles. Evaluation of the individual performance of each executive director is undertaken as part of the performance management process for all employees, the results of which are considered by the Group Remuneration Committee when determining variable pay awards each year. The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the Group Chairman. The Board will monitor the implementation of actions arising from its 2013 performance evaluation. It is the intention of the Board to continue to undertake an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual Directors annually, with independent external input to the process, as appropriate, at least every third year. 1 A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the Company to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does not have any other connection with the Company. Relations with shareholders All Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders. Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst presentations and other meetings with institutional investors and their representative bodies. Directors also meet representatives of institutional shareholders annually to discuss corporate governance matters. All executive Directors and certain other senior executives hold regular meetings with institutional investors. The Board receives a regular investor relations activity report which provides feedback from meetings with institutional shareholders and brokers, analysts’ forecasts, information from research reports and share price performance data. Twice each year the Board also receives a report from one of our corporate brokers. The Group’s shareholder communication policy is available on www.hsbc.com. On several occasions during 2013, non-executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, met or corresponded with institutional investors and their representatives to discuss corporate governance and executive remuneration. As Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, or other executives cannot resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. He may be contacted through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors and contracts of significance The Board has adopted a policy and procedures relating to Directors’ conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and can determine the terms of authorisation for such situations. The Board’s powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the procedures are being followed. A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised from time to time and the terms of those authorisations are undertaken by the Board annually. The Articles provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities. Such provisions have been in place during the financial year but have not been utilised by the Directors. All Directors have the benefit of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company. 345 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Corporate governance codes HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate governance. HSBC has complied during 2013 with the applicable code provisions of: (i) The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council; and (ii) the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that the Group Risk Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal control (other than internal control over financial reporting) and risk management systems (Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code provision C.3.3 paragraphs (f), (g) and (h)). If there were no Group Risk Committee, these matters would be the responsibility of the Group Audit Committee. The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.frc.org.uk and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code is available at www.hkex.com.hk. The Board has adopted a code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors. The code of conduct complies with The Model Code in the Listing Rules of the FCA and with The Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (‘Hong Kong Model Code’) set out in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model Code. The waivers granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited primarily take into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. Following specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed that he or she has complied with the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities throughout the year, save that, on 10 January 2013, an independent non-executive Director disposed of an interest as beneficial owner in 500 units of euro-denominated preferred securities of €1,000 each issued by HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. before giving notification. All Directors have since been reminded of their obligations under the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Securities. 346 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board committees 1 Established on 17 January 2014. 2 Established on 22 November 2013. The Board has established a number of committees consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors and, in the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, co-opted non-director members. The key roles of the Board committees are described above. The Chairman of each non-executive Board committee reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the committee since the previous Board meeting. The terms of reference of the principal non-executive Board committees are available at www.hsbc.com/ boardcommittees. Each non-executive Board committee reviews its terms of reference annually. Group Management Board Role and members The GMB is responsible for the day-to-day management of HSBC Holdings. Members Stuart Gulliver (Chairman), Iain Mackay and Marc Moses who are executive Directors, and Ann Almeida, Samir Assaf, Peter Boyles, Simon Cooper, Irene Dorner, John Flint, Pam Kaur, Alan Keir, Stuart Levey, Antonio Losada, Sean O’Sullivan and Peter Wong, all of whom are Group Managing Directors. The Group Chief Executive Officer chairs the GMB. The head of each global business and global function and the chief executive of each region attend GMB meetings, either as members or by invitation. 347 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) The GMB is a key element of our management reporting and control structure such that all of our line operations are accountable either to a member of the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, who in turn reports to the Group Chairman. The Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB. These align senior executives’ objectives and measures with the strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC. The Group Chief Executive (who is Chairman of the GMB) reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the GMB. Regular Risk Management Meetings of the GMB, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held to establish, maintain and periodically review the policy and guidelines for the management of risk within the Group. Regular Global Standards Steering Meetings of the GMB, co-chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer and Chief Legal Officer, are held to develop and implement Global Standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered to consistently throughout the Group. The Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer attends each meeting. Group Audit Committee Chairman’s Statement HSBC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2013 differs from previous years in line with the new UK legislation requiring that UK companies include in their annual report a Strategic Report section covering the company’s strategy and business model and the principal risks and challenges it faces. The GAC has provided input and guidance on the way in which the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 has been presented and we hope shareholders find the Strategic Report section to be concise and useful. We have set out in the report below further information on the role and activities of the GAC during 2013. A particular focus area for the GAC in the year was oversight of the tender process which resulted in the recommendation to the Board that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) be appointed the Group’s auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January 2015. The transition process for PwC to familiarise themselves with the Group’s business and to take steps to satisfy auditor independence requirements, is a crucial element in the handover of audit responsibilities by KPMG. This transition process will continue to be a focus for the GAC in 2014. At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, I shall be stepping down from the Board and it is proposed that Renato Fassbind will become Chairman of the GAC at this time. I should like to congratulate him on his appointment and welcome Kathleen Casey, who will become a Director and member of the GAC in March 2014. John Coombe Chairman, Group Audit Committee 24 February 2014 Role and members The Group Audit Committee has non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice to the Board on, matters relating to financial reporting. Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 John Coombe (Chairman) 5 5 Marvin Cheung 5 5 Rona Fairhead2 3 3 Renato Fassbind3 3 3 Rachel Lomax 5 5 Meetings held in 2013 5 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. Kathleen Casey will be appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2014 and will become a member of the Committee from this date. With effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, John Coombe will retire as a Director and Chairman of the GAC and Renato Fassbind will become Chairman of the GAC (subject to regulatory approval). 2 Retired as a member of the Committee on 24 May 2013. 3 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 March 2013. The Board has determined that Marvin Cheung, John Coombe, Renato Fassbind and Rachel Lomax are, and Rona Fairhead was, independent according to SEC criteria and may be regarded as audit committee financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting is set out below. Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of matters relating to financial reporting. 348 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors • Financial reporting • Appointing senior financial officers GAC Independent non-executive Directors • Monitoring the integrity of financial statements • Overseeing the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their effectiveness • Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function • Reviewing the Company’s financial and accounting policies and practices • Advising the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Disclosure Committee Representatives from global businesses, functions and certain Group companies • Reviewing the Group’s material communications with investors • Assisting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 • Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis • Reporting findings and making recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Subsidiary board committees responsible for oversight of financial reporting and global business audit committees Independent non-executive directors and/or HSBC Group employees with no line of functional responsibility for the activities of relevant subsidiary or global business, as appropriate. • Providing reports to the GAC on financial statements and internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested Committee activities The GAC undertook the following activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Financial reporting. The Committee advised the Board on meeting its external financial reporting obligations through its reviews of financial statements, interim reports and interim management statements prior to approval by the Board. The Committee also undertook the following: – endorsed the going concern statement and the statement of compliance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes for inclusion in the financial statements; – advised the Board that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable; – received reports on proposed changes to the Group’s disclosures in the financial statements and the adequacy of procedures to identify transactions and matters requiring disclosure under certain accounting standards; – reviewed accounting policies and practices, including approval of the critical accounting policies; – considered provisioning for, and disclosure of, certain litigation and regulatory matters with external legal counsel providing a status update on these matters; – received presentations from the Global Head of Tax on current tax issues; – received a report on the accounting issues raised in the Report of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards; and – reviewed the procedures for the submission by employees of concerns regarding accounting and/or auditing matters. The GAC considered the significant accounting issues described below and in addressing these issues the Committee considered the appropriateness of management’s judgements and estimates and, where appropriate, discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor, reviewing the matters referred to in the external auditor’s report as risks of material misstatement. The Committee considered: – loan impairment allowances and charges throughout the year, discussing with management the reasons for significant changes. Judgements and estimates discussed included changes to the loan impairment model and assumptions for 349 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) restructured loans in Brazil; a review of assumptions about the time period between loss events occurring, discovery and eventual write-off for the collective impairment assessment of retail banking and small business portfolios; collective provisioning for US mortgage portfolios, and management judgements on notable individual cases of impairment in wholesale banking; – the recognition and level of provisions, the existence of contingent liabilities, and the disclosures relating to provisions and contingent liabilities, for legal proceedings and regulatory matters; – HSBC’s exposure to the payment of redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance policies in the UK and the related provisions. The Committee considered the key assumptions which determine the provisions and the factors driving the increase during the year. Management’s assessment was that the amount of provision at 31 December 2013 is based on appropriate assumptions about future expected redress payments, while noting the sensitivity of the provision to different outcomes from those assumed; – HSBC’s exposure to remediation costs relating to the possible mis-selling of interest rate swaps to small and medium-sized businesses in the UK, noting the reasons for the additional provisions made during 2013; – developments in the industry investigations and reviews into the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates, and matters relating to trading on foreign exchange and credit derivatives markets, by various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world. The Committee discussed the high degree of uncertainty as to the resolution of these regulatory investigations and reviews; – the valuation of financial instruments measured at fair value, including the measurement of derivatives. Developments in market practice regarding accounting for funding costs in the valuation of uncollateralised derivatives were considered. HSBC does not currently include funding fair value adjustments (‘FFVA’) in the fair value measurement of uncollateralised derivatives, as no industry consensus has yet emerged on how FFVA should be calculated. However, FFVA may be adopted by HSBC in future as such consensus develops; – the impairment test performed on HSBC’s investment in BoCom as at 31 December 2013. The impairment test identified that, based on an assessment of the value in use of the investment, the investment is not impaired. The Committee noted the sensitivity of the impairment test result to projected future cash flows and the discount rate; – the results of the annual goodwill impairment test completed as at 1 July 2013, which identified no impairment. The goodwill relating to GPB Europe was re-tested as at 31 December 2013 following reduced forecast profitability in the second half of 2013, and management concluded that it was not impaired. The Committee noted that disclosure has been made with regards to the extent to which a change in key assumptions would result in the recoverable amount being equal to its carrying amount; – the recognition of deferred tax assets, including in the US, where reliance is placed on the Group’s continued investment of sufficient capital to ensure realisation of deferred tax assets, in Mexico, where the recoverability of deferred tax assets has been affected by clarifications in legislation, and in the UK, where projections of future taxable income of HSBC Holdings plc are insufficient to enable recognition of deferred tax assets for its carried forward tax losses. • Internal controls over financial reporting. The Committee undertook an annual review of HSBC’s systems of internal controls over financial reporting. During 2013, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of such internal controls and reported regularly to the Board as described on page 366. The Committee received regular reports from the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head of Internal Audit. Minutes of the Group Risk Committee and executive committee meetings including the GMB, Risk Management Meetings and Global Standard Steering Meetings were provided to the Committee members. The Committee also reviewed the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff in the Finance function. Reports were submitted to 350 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) the Committee on internal control matters in relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company Secretary, external auditor and other senior executives attended Committee meetings. The Committee had regular discussions with the external auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for discussions to take place without management present. • Effectiveness of the internal audit function. The Committee satisfied itself that the internal audit function was effective and adequately resourced through regular meetings held with, and reports provided by, the Group Head of Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including the effectiveness and adequacy of resources. PwC were engaged to undertake a review of the internal audit function to assess compliance with industry and regulatory internal audit guidance and progress made by the function in addressing the recommendations contained in the external quality assurance review performed by KPMG in 2012. The Committee received reports over the course of 2013 on the activities of the internal audit function and reviewed its planned activities for the following year. • Legal and regulatory environment. The Committee received regular reports on litigation and on the application of changes in law, regulation, accounting policies and practices and regulatory developments, including reports on developments in the programme to change IFRSs, Basel III/CRD IV, the recommendations of the ICB and accounting issues raised in the report from the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards. • External auditor. The Committee provided oversight of the external auditor through regular meetings with the external auditor, including meetings without management present, and receiving reports on the external auditor’s strategy in relation to the audit of financial statements and the progress of the audit. The Committee monitored the effectiveness of the audit process through a review of the public report published by the Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Inspection Unit on the inspection of the external auditor, an assessment against a best practice checklist for evaluating external auditors, an external audit assessment questionnaire completed by the chief financial officers of the Group’s major geographical regions, a review of the relationship between the Group and the external auditor at a senior level and considered the results of feedback provided to the external auditor by members of the finance function throughout the Group. The Committee approved the remuneration and terms of engagement and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor. • Terms of reference and effectiveness of the Committee. The Committee undertook an annual review of its terms of reference and of its own effectiveness. In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the external auditor and other senior executives as required. Terms of reference and subsidiary company audit oversight The GAC is responsible for non-executive oversight of internal controls over financial reporting. To ensure consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary company audit committees, the GAC has established core terms of reference to guide subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their non-executive audit committees. The Committee’s endorsement is required for any proposed material changes to subsidiary audit committee terms of reference and for appointments to such committees. A forum for the chairmen of our principal subsidiary company committees with responsibility for non-executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters was held in June 2013 to share understanding and to facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which these subsidiary company committees operate. The next forum will be held in June 2014. Arrangements relating to the external auditor The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. KPMG has been the Group’s auditor since 1991, when HSBC Holdings became the ultimate holding company of the Group, without a tender process for the external audit contract having taken place. A tender process was undertaken in 2013, resulting in a recommendation, which was endorsed by the 351 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board, that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be appointed as external auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January 2015. The appointment will be subject to shareholders’ approval at the 2015 AGM. The Board has approved, on the recommendation of the Committee, a policy for the employment by HSBC of former employees of KPMG. The Committee receives an annual report on such former employees who are employed and the number in senior positions. This report enables the Committee to consider whether there has been any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the external auditor’s judgement, objectivity or independence in respect of the audit. The external auditor provided written confirmation of its independence under industry standards. The policies for the pre-approval of specific services that may be provided by the principal auditor are kept under review by the Committee and amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and experience of our auditor, while also ensuring that our external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity. These pre-approval policies apply to all services where any HSBC company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the service, and has selected or influenced the choice of KPMG. All services provided by KPMG during 2013 were pre-approved by the Committee or were entered into under pre-approval policies established by the Committee. The pre-approved services relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types of attestation reports, the provision of advice and other non-audit services allowed under SEC independence rules. The services fall into the categories of audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services. An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG for each of the past three years is disclosed in Note 8 on the Financial Statements. Group Risk Committee Chairman’s Statement I assumed the chairmanship of the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) in May 2013 from Rona Fairhead, under whose leadership the role of the GRC continued to evolve. Following my appointment and the establishment of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) in January 2013 to oversee financial crime-related risk matters and the Group’s adoption of enhanced compliance standards, the GRC has been in a position to increase its focus on oversight of other areas of risk that the Group faces and to take an increasingly forward-looking approach to identifying emerging risks. As the Group has continued to pursue its transformation agenda to simplify the way the Group is run and make it easier to manage, the GRC has focused on identification and management of risks inherent in the implementation of this agenda. As businesses have been disposed of or closed, pressure has been exerted on costs and our global businesses and functions have been re-shaped, the GRC has overseen risk management actions with a particular focus on seeking assurance that management’s controls across the Group are not adversely affected. The culture of the Group and the tone set by senior management throughout its global operations are critical to effective risk management. The GRC focuses on steps taken to communicate and reinforce the Group’s commitment to ‘doing the right thing’ particularly during reviews of the strategies and risk governance frameworks of the global businesses and functions. This is also reflected in the risk-related advice the GRC provides to the Group Remuneration Committee in connection with determination of the variable pay pool and individual awards. The implications for the Group of evolving legal and regulatory requirements applicable to financial institutions, and preparatory steps being taken to address them, are kept under close review by the Committee. Aspects of the changing legal and regulatory environment which have been priority focus areas for the GRC in 2013 include the increased regulatory focus on conduct issues, particularly in the UK retail banking business, the implementation of new UK legislation on ‘ring-fencing’ of a UK bank’s retail operations from its investment banking operations, the application of the Volcker rule (which is part of the US Dodd-Frank Act) and the introduction of a ‘bail-in’ capital regime for UK banks. The nature and pace of legal and 352 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) regulatory change in 2013 has led to increased scrutiny by the GRC of the Group’s risk appetite profile and management actions to mitigate risks and exposures. We have set out in the report below further information on the role and activities of the GRC during 2013. On behalf of the Committee I should like to thank John Coombe, who will be stepping down as a Director with effect from the 2014 Annual General Meeting, for his valuable contribution. Joachim Faber Chairman, Group Risk Committee 24 February 2014 Role and members The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on high-level risk-related matters and risk governance and for non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls (other than financial reporting). Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 Joachim Faber2 (Chairman) 9 9 John Coombe 9 9 Rona Fairhead3 5 5 John Lipsky 9 9 Rachel Lomax 9 9 Meetings held in 2013 9 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. . With effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, John Coombe will retire as a Director and member of the GRC. 2 Appointed chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013. 3 Retired as a member and chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013. John Trueman, a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk committee, and Robert Herdman, a non-executive director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Bank USA have both attended meetings of the GRC by invitation during 2013. Their experience of risk-related matters in the financial services industry is valued by the Committee. Governance All of HSBC’s activities involve, to varying degrees, the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or combinations of risks. The Board, advised by the Committee, requires and encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Group’s attitude to risk. The Board and the Committee oversee the maintenance and development of a strong risk management framework by continually monitoring the risk environment, top and emerging risks facing the Group and mitigating actions planned and taken. The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal controls systems other than over financial reporting, which are monitored by the GAC. The governance structure for the management of risk is set out in the following table. Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters and an executive committee with responsibility for risk-related matters. Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors • Approving risk appetite, strategy and performance targets for the Group • Approving appointment of chief risk officers of subsidiary companies • Encouraging a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Group’s attitude to risk GRC Independent non-executive Directors • Advising the Board on: – risk appetite and alignment with strategy – alignment of remuneration with risk appetite (through advice to the Group Remuneration Committee) – risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals • Overseeing high-level risk related matters • Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk management and internal controls (other than over financial reporting) • Overseeing the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk 353 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Executive Directors and co-opted non-director members • Overseeing controls and procedures designed to identify areas of exposure to financial crime or system abuse • Overseeing matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing • Reviewing policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met GAC Independent non-executive Directors • Overseeing risks relating to financial reporting and internal control over financial reporting. Risk Management Meeting of the GMB Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Legal Officer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director All other Group Managing Directors • Formulating high-level global risk policy • Exercising delegated risk management authority • Overseeing implementation of risk appetite and controls • Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action • Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management Global Standards Steering Meeting of the GMB Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Legal Officer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer All other Group Managing Directors • Developing and implementing Global Standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered to throughout the Group • Overseeing initiatives to ensure our conduct matches our values Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Risk Officers of HSBC’s global businesses and regions Heads of risk areas within the Global Risk Function • Supporting the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk function, setting priorities and overseeing their execution • Overseeing consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Subsidiary board committees responsible for risk-related matters and global business risk committees Independent non-executive directors and/or HSBC Group employees with no line or functional responsibility for the activities of the relevant subsidiary or global business, as appropriate • Providing reports to the GRC or intermediate risk committee on risk-related matters and internal controls (other than over financial reporting) of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested Risk reporting and monitoring The GRC regularly monitors: • the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile against key performance/risk indicators, as set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on Group-wide, global business and regional bases; • the top and emerging risks facing the Group; and • the risk profiles for separate categories of risk within the Group’s business identified in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on Group-wide, global business and regional bases; and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by management. Reports on these items are presented at each meeting of the Committee. Regular reports from the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB, which is the executive body responsible for overseeing risk, are also presented. In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer. The Committee also receives regular presentations from the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer, Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Legal Officer and other business, function and risk heads. Risk appetite Risk appetite is a key component of our management of risk. The Board, advised by the GRC, approves the Group’s risk appetite, which describes the types and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing our strategy and which is set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement. Embedding risk appetite statements and the related monitoring and reporting framework across the Group has continued to be an area of significant focus in 2013 with initiatives undertaken to: • further enhance the Global risk appetite framework for consistent adoption by all regions and global businesses within the Group; and 354 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) • complete a formal triennial review and assessment that HSBC’s risk appetite framework remains fit for purpose, is in line with best practice and adheres to the highest standards. Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by the core characteristics listed to the right. These core characteristics are applied to define the risk appetite statements on Group-wide, global business and regional levels. The relevant strategic and operational objectives, within which we expect businesses and regions to operate, are expressed quantitatively across the following dimensions: Risk appetite: core characteristics • Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns • Strong balance sheet • Healthy capital position • Conservative liquidity management • Strong brand • Robust Group structure of separate legal entities • The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth • Risk diversification Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1. Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2. Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements 3. Maintain a strong capital ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 (common equity tier 1 from 2014) 4. Maintain a well-diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5. Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments 6. Manage impairments within the Group’s tolerance Risk category and diversification 7. Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite 8. Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings Intra-Group lending 9. Group entities should operate at all times within intra-group exposure limits Scenario and stress testing 10. Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Group’s capital adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is integral to our approach to risk management. We define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regions or global businesses and has the potential to have a material impact on our financial results or our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise within a one-year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy. The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with management at each of its meetings. Current top and emerging risks, which are summarised below, are viewed as falling into three broad categories: macroeconomic and geopolitical; macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model; and risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems. The following table shows the current top and emerging risks identified through our risk management processes: Current top and emerging risks Categories Top and emerging risks Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk • Emerging markets slowdown • Increased geopolitical risk Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model • Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability • Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, commitments and consent orders and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand • Dispute risk Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems • Heightened execution risk • Internet crime and fraud • Information security risk • Data management • Model risk 355 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Stress testing Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme is central to the monitoring of top and emerging risks. It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme but plausible events. The outcome of the testing and analysis is also used to assess the potential impact of the relevant scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital compared with its supply. Management develops action plans to mitigate risks identified. The extent to which those action plans are implemented depends on management’s evaluation of the risks and their potential consequences, taking into account HSBC’s risk appetite. Further information on scenario stress testing is set out on page 139. Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three main classifications: regulatory scenarios; Group-wide business scenarios; and specific business or exposure scenarios. During 2013, the GRC reviewed the outcome of a number of stress tests undertaken by the Group and action plans to mitigate risks where appropriate, including a Group reverse liquidity test and stress tests on the Annual Operating Plan under severe eurozone crisis and US fiscal cliff scenarios, the potential consequences of a breach of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements, worsening economic conditions in Japan and Brazil, a global slowdown scenario, including a hard landing in mainland China, and a eurozone break-up. The development of HSBC’s stress testing and scenario testing analysis programme will continue to be an area of focus for the Committee. Committee activities The GRC undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Oversight of executive risk management. Regular reports and presentations were received from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at each meeting a presentation of a ‘risk map’, which provides analysis, on Group-wide, global business and regional bases, of risk profiles for categories of risk identified in the Group Risk Appetite Statement, and a top and emerging risks report which summarises proposed mitigating actions for identified risks. The Committee received regular reports on matters discussed at Risk Management Meetings. • Legal and regulatory environment. Reports were received from the Chief Legal Officer on forward-looking legal risks, the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer, the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance on forward-looking compliance risks and the Head of Group Performance and Reward. Regular updates were received on the US regulatory and law enforcement authorities and US dispute risk and compliance matters in the US and the steps taken to remediate these compliance issues. • Obligations under US and UK agreements. Regular updates have been received and reviewed on the Group’s progress in meeting obligations under the agreements and orders entered into or made in connection with the resolution of the investigations by US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities in December 2012 and actions completed to date. • HSBC Global Standards. The Committee received regular updates on the Global Standards initiative being undertaken by the Group and the activities of the Global Standards Steering Meeting. • Financial Crime. The Committee received regular reports on the activities of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee. • Compliance-related initiatives. The Committee received regular reports on the restructuring of the Compliance function, including the development of the blueprint and target operating model for each of the Financial Crime Compliance team and the Regulatory Compliance team and the establishment of a project management office for implementation of compliance-related initiatives. • US matters. The Committee received regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA on compliance and regulatory matters in the US. • Country risk tolerances. The Committee considered enhancements to the Group’s country risk tolerance framework. The risk tolerance in respect of the Group’s two home markets and 20 priority markets were considered by the Committee. • Risk data aggregation and risk reporting. The Committee received reports on actions to comply with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s principles on data aggregation and risk reporting. 356 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) • Review of risk management and internal controls. The Committee undertook an annual review of HSBC’s systems of internal controls, other than over financial reporting. During 2013, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of such risk management and internal controls and reported regularly to the Board as described on page 364. A series of presentations were made, and reports submitted, by the heads of the global businesses and global functions to the Committee on the risk control framework in their respective business or function. Reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the internal audit process and weaknesses identified in internal controls (other than over financial reporting) were presented to the Committee, as well as reports from regulators relating to the internal control systems. • Risk appetite. The Committee reviewed the alignment of risk appetite and Group strategy. Regular reviews were undertaken of the Group’s risk profile against the key performance indicators set out in the Risk Appetite Statement which considered the need for any adjustment to the risk appetite. The Risk Appetite Statement for 2014 was recommended to the Board for approval, to be used in the preparation of the Annual Operating Plan for 2014. Reports and presentations were received from the Group Chief Risk Officer, including on the results of HSBC’s stress testing and scenario analysis programme. • Alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. Presentations and reports were received on remuneration-related proposals to assist the Committee in giving advice to the Group Remuneration Committee on the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. The GRC considered risk-related issues to have been appropriately taken into account by the Group Remuneration Committee, including when determining the total variable pay funding pool for the 2013 performance year and the proposed design of the performance scorecard for the 2014 performance year. The Committee received presentations on the procedure for determining individual variable pay awards, including the risk assessment process for identifying matters for which risk-related adjustments may be made to individual and team awards. The process by which an individual’s adherence to HSBC Values and the Group’s risk-related policies and procedures is taken into account in performance assessment and determination of variable pay was also reported to the Committee. The Committee provided advice and feedback on risk-related matters to the Group Remuneration Committee where appropriate. • Reputational risk. The Committee received reports from executive management on reputational risk. • Benchmarking. The Committee received reports on internal benchmarking exercises undertaken against third party assessment of industry best practices for risk and compliance functions. • Top and emerging risks. In monitoring top and emerging risks the Committee received reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer, the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance as well as other members of senior management on risks identified and developments in the Group’s business, including model risk, people risk, the changing regulatory environment; the implications of regulatory investigations and global market risk such as the implications of an emerging market slowdown and the impact on trade and capital flows. • Acquisitions and disposals. The Committee received reports and presentations on risk issues relating to proposed strategic acquisitions and the risk management of disposals and advised the Board appropriately. • Operational risk. The Committee received regular reports on the Group’s operational risk management framework. • Oversight of risk governance framework. Minutes of the GAC, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, Group Remuneration Committee, GMB including the Risk Management Meeting and the Global Standards Steering Meeting, and the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee were made available to Committee members. • Terms of reference and Committee effectiveness. The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and of its own effectiveness. In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, the 357 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Chief Legal Officer and other senior executives as required. The Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company Secretary and the external auditor and other senior executives attended Committee meetings. Professional external advice on US compliance matters has been provided by Promontory Financial Group, US financial consultants. Terms of reference and subsidiary company risk oversight The GRC is responsible for non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls, other than internal controls over financial reporting which is the responsibility of the GAC. To ensure consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary company committees, the GRC has established core terms of reference to guide subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their non-executive risk committees (or audit committees if those committees are also responsible for the oversight of risk related matters). The Committee’s endorsement is required for any proposed material changes to subsidiary company risk committee terms of reference and for appointments to such committees. A forum for the chairmen of HSBC’s principal subsidiary company committees with responsibility for non-executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters was held in June 2013 to share understanding and to facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which these subsidiary committees operate. The next forum will be held in June 2014. Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Chairman’s Statement Having been established in January 2013, the FSVC has two primary purposes – to oversee our compliance with regulatory orders, including oversight of the relationship with the Monitor, and to help identify and then oversee appropriate responses to emerging exogenous threats to HSBC. By so doing, we support HSBC’s objective of adopting and enforcing high compliance standards throughout the Group and also help protect HSBC. We recognise that in the past HSBC did not consistently identify, and so prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system through its network. The adoption of high compliance standards – allied with the highest standards of behaviour – forms part of our strategy to eliminate the possibility of this happening again, and will address our obligations under the deferred prosecution agreements and other agreements and orders entered into or made with US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities in 2012. The FSVC will continue to focus in 2014 on approving and monitoring the adoption of controls and procedures which will underpin our high behavioural and compliance standards. Building and maintaining a strong compliance culture throughout the Group, which is essential to the success of our strategy, will remain a focus area for the FSVC in 2014. An equally important aspect of the FSVC’s role is providing the Group with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk and other exogenous threats such as cyber-security. The five subject matter experts appointed to the FSVC, as well as Sir Jonathan Evans who joined the Committee on 6 August 2013, have provided invaluable guidance and advice in identifying risk areas where the Group could become exposed, and working with us to mitigate those risks. In 2014, we will continue to build on this work and I’m delighted that Sir Jonathan has agreed to take over the chairmanship of the Committee during the second quarter of this year. I would also like to welcome our new Director, Kathleen Casey, who will be joining the FSVC in March 2014. We have set out in the report below further information on the role and activities of the FSVC during 2013. Rona Fairhead Chairman, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 24 February 2014 358 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Role and members The FSVC has non-executive responsibility for governance, oversight and policy guidance over the framework of controls and procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC and the financial system more broadly may become exposed to financial crime or system abuse. The Committee also has oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing, including the establishment, implementation, maintenance and review of adequate policies and procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met. The Committee oversees and reports to the Board on implementation of the actions necessary to build assurance in these areas and seeks to provide the Board with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk. Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 Rona Fairhead (Chairman) 6 6 Jim Comey2 3 4 Sir Jonathan Evans3,4 2 2 Nick Fishwick5 6 6 Dave Hartnett5 6 6 Bill Hughes5 6 6 Sir Simon Robertson 6 6 Leonard Schrank5 6 6 Juan Zarate5,6 6 6 Meetings held in 2013 6 1 Sir Jonathan Evans will become Chairman of the FSVC with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Kathleen Casey will be appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2014 and will become a member of the Committee from this date. 2 Retired as a Director and member on 4 September 2013. 3 Appointed a Director and member on 6 August 2013. 4 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a Director. 5 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. 6 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Co-opted non-director members Five co-opted non-director members have been appointed advisers to the Committee to support its work. Brief biographies are set out below: Nick Fishwick, CMG: former senior official in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, specialising in security, intelligence and counter-terrorism; seconded from 2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and Excise as Head of Intelligence (Law Enforcement), focusing on international counter-narcotics, tax and excise fraud; awarded the CMG in 2009. Dave Hartnett, CB: former Permanent Secretary for Tax at HM Revenue and Customs; focused on tax policy development, compliance and enforcement and international tax issues during his 36-year career in tax administration; former deputy chairman of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Forum on Tax Administration. Bill Hughes, CBE QPM: former head of the UK’s Serious Organised Crime Agency; international experience in the disruption, dismantling and criminal investigation of organised crime. Leonard Schrank: former chief executive officer of SWIFT, the industry owned, global financial messaging system; oversaw SWIFT’s relationship with the US Treasury Department and other countries on counter-terrorism issues. Member MIT Corporation (board of trustees) from 2011 to 2016. The Honourable Juan Zarate: Senior Advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; the Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News; a Visiting Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School; national security consultant; former Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Combating Terrorism responsible for developing and implementing the US Government’s counter-terrorism strategy and policies related to transnational security threats; former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime; and former federal prosecutor who served on terrorism prosecution teams. Committee activities The Committee undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Forward looking perspective on financial crime risk: The Committee agreed areas of focus where HSBC and the financial system more broadly may become exposed to financial crime or system abuse. The Committee received updates from the adviser members of the Committee on activities they had undertaken in connection with these agreed areas and received reports on actions being taken to address these risks including (i) the enhancement of the Group’s cyber security capabilities; (ii) the development of a dedicated team and systems to provide our global businesses with proactive enhanced customer due diligence; (iii) the tax transparency initiatives undertaken by HSBC; and (iv) initiatives HSBC is undertaking with external parties related to financial crime 359 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) compliance, financial integrity and regulatory enforcement. • Oversight of financial crime-related issues: The Committee received updates on financial crime-related issues facing the Group and relevant mitigating controls including: (i) development of financial crime compliance related aspects of the Group’s technology and data systems strategy; (ii) Group policies and procedures on anti-money laundering, sanctions and other financial crime related matters; and (iii) enhancements to transaction monitoring systems. The Committee received regular reports on forward-looking financial crime compliance risks, matters identified by Internal Audit relating to financial crime compliance, and reviews undertaken of the Group’s anti-money laundering programme. The Committee received updates on thematic reviews being undertaken by regulators. • Obligations under US and UK agreements: The Committee oversaw the Group’s anti-money laundering and compliance-related initiatives to address obligations under the deferred prosecution agreements, and other agreements and orders entered into or made in connection with the resolution of the investigations by US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities in December 2012 and actions completed to date. • Compliance-related initiatives: The Committee received reports on the restructuring of the Compliance function, including the development of the operating model for each of the financial crime compliance and regulatory compliance team and reports on progress in recruitment. The Committee reviewed, and received regular updates on, the Compliance Plan, which documents the Group’s strategy to augment HSBC’s anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance programme, which includes policies, procedures and enhanced training. • Reporting to regulators: Regular updates were provided by the Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Global Head of Regulatory Compliance on reports to, and meetings held with, regulators about the Group’s compliance-related initiatives. The Committee reviewed reports submitted to regulators on compliance-related initiatives being undertaken by the Group. • Global Standards programme: The Committee received regular updates on progress being made in implementing Global Standards. The Committee reviewed the framework for the execution and implementation of the Global Standards programme and received a presentation on Group-wide communications to employees. Minutes of the Global Standards Steering Meeting were made available to Committee members. • Monitor: The Group’s Monitor outlined his planned approach to the monitorship of HSBC. The Committee received regular updates on HSBC’s interactions with the Monitor. • Terms of reference and Committee effectiveness: The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and of its own effectiveness. In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Group Chairman, the adviser members of the Committee and senior executives as required. The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Global Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly attend Committee meetings. Group Remuneration Committee Role and members The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration policy. As part of its role, it considers the terms of annual incentive plans, share plans, other long-term incentive plans and the individual remuneration packages of executive Directors and other senior Group employees, including all positions of significant influence and those having a material impact on our risk profile and in doing so takes into account the pay and conditions across the Group. No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman)2 4 4 John Thornton3 6 7 John Coombe 12 12 Renato Fassbind4 5 5 Sam Laidlaw 12 12 Meetings held in 2013 12 12 1. All members are independent non-executive Directors. With effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, John Coombe will retire as a Director and member of the Committee and John Lipsky will become a member of the Committee. 2 Appointed a member and Chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013. 360 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 3 Retired as a Director and Chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013. 4 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2013. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 378 to 407. Nomination Committee Chairman’s Statement A key responsibility of the Nomination Committee is to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity on the Board. Another important responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that plans are in place for the selection, appointment and orderly succession of executive Directors and senior executives. The Committee met once last year to undertake with the Group Chief Executive an in-depth review of succession plans and satisfied itself after discussion that such plans were sufficient and appropriate but needed to be kept under annual review. At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May 2014, both John Coombe and James Hughes-Hallett who have served the Board for many years with distinction will be retiring. The Committee continues to monitor regulatory developments as they may affect Board composition. The Committee has considered in detail the new requirements under the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive IV which comes into effect on 1 July 2014 and which will restrict the number of directorships that may be held by members of the Board. The ramifications of these new requirements for the current Board are being reviewed. The Committee is also considering the implications the new requirements may have on the pipeline of potential non-executive Directors with the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to augment the Board. On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank James Hughes-Hallett, who will be stepping down as a Director with effect from the 2014 Annual General Meeting, for his commitment, insights and valuable contribution as a member of the Committee. I would like to welcome Laura Cha and Sam Laidlaw who will be appointed as members of this Committee from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Sir Simon Robertson Chairman, Nomination Committee 24 February 2014 Members Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman) 4 4 Rona Fairhead 4 4 James Hughes-Hallett 4 4 John Lipsky 4 4 Meetings held in 2013 4 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. With effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, James Hughes-Hallett will retire as a Director and member of the Committee and Laura Cha and Sam Laidlaw will become members of the Committee. Committee activities The Committee undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Appointments of new Directors. Following a rigorous selection process, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Jim Comey (appointed with effect from 4 March 2013 and resigned with effect from 4 September 2013 as he was asked by President Obama to become head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation), Sir Jonathan Evans (appointed with effect from 6 August 2013) and Kathleen Casey (appointed with effect from 1 March 2014). Both Jim Comey and Sir Jonathan Evans have a background in combatting financial and other crime. Kathleen Casey brings to the Board extensive experience of financial services regulation. An external search consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used in relation to the appointment of Sir Jonathan Evans and Kathleen Casey. MWM Consulting has no other connection with HSBC. Jim Comey was introduced to us by a member of senior management. Having regard to his public and private sector roles, the Committee considered that neither external consultants nor advertising were considered necessary in relation to this appointment. Finally, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer, as an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014 in recognition of the criticality of the Risk function to the Group. • Forward planning. The Committee adopts a forward-looking approach to potential candidates for appointment to the Board that takes into account the needs and development of the Group’s businesses and the expected retirement dates of current Directors. The 361 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Committee believes that the Group will continue to face increased financial services regulation which will include the requirement to assist the authorities to combat financial crime and accordingly will broaden the risks facing the Group. • Size, structure and composition. The Committee monitored the size, structure and composition of the Board (including skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity). Consideration is given to ensuring that the Board’s decision-making is not dominated by any one individual or small group of individuals. The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board appropriate changes to the roles of the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the senior independent non-executive Director. The Committee considered the election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and has recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for election or re-election, other than John Coombe and James Hughes-Hallett who will retire at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, having served nine years as Directors. • Regulatory developments. The Committee monitored regulatory developments as they may affect Board composition. During 2013, the Committee considered the implications of the corporate governance requirements of the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive IV and the European Parliament’s adoption of a proposal on gender balance for non-executive directors of listed companies. • Diversity. Bearing in mind the geographical spread of the Group’s business, the Committee pays particular attention to the ethnicity, age and gender diversity of the Board. Board appointments continue to be made based on merit and candidates are considered against objective criteria, having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board. The Board diversity policy is available at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/ corporate-governance-codes. The Committee regularly monitored progress towards the implementation of the Board diversity policy using the following measurable objectives: 25% of the Board should be female, with a target of 30% to be achieved by 2020; only external search consultants who are signatories to the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct should be engaged by the Nomination Committee; and at least 30% of candidates, proposed by search firms for consideration as non-executive Directors, should be women. As at 31 December 2013, 25% of the Board is female. The benefits of diversity continue to influence succession planning and are key criteria in the instructions to external search consultants. • Director training and development. The Committee reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors and senior management. • Time commitment and independence of non-executive Directors. The Committee assessed the independence of, and time required from, non-executive Directors. The Committee is satisfied that all non-executive Directors have the time to fulfil their fiduciary responsibilities to provide oversight of the business of the Group and to serve on the Committees of the Board. Prospective Directors are asked to identify any significant other commitments and confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what is expected of them. • Terms of reference and Committee effectiveness. The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and its own effectiveness. Corporate Sustainability Committee Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members Laura Cha (Chairman)1 4 4 James Hughes-Hallett2 4 4 Lord May3 2 4 Dame Mary Marsh3 4 4 Meetings held in 2013 4 1 Appointed Chairman on 1 January 2013. 2 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 January 2013. 3 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. Sustainability governance The Corporate Sustainability Committee was responsible during 2013 for advising the Board, committees of the Board and executive management on corporate sustainability policies across the Group including environmental, social and ethical issues. The Committee has been demised by resolution of the Board with effect from 31 December 2013. A Conduct & Values Committee has been established which undertakes much of what was previously done by the Corporate Sustainability Committee. Further information on the Conduct & Values Committee can be found on page 364. 362 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Corporate Sustainability exists as a global function. Senior executives are charged with implementing sustainable business practice in all major regions through inclusion in the HSBC Global Standards Manuals; and, through induction and developmental training. Local teams are in charge of embedding corporate sustainability strategies within banking activities. HSBC reports on its progress in developing and implementing its sustainability strategy annually in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is independently verified and prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative framework. The HSBC Sustainability Report 2013 will be issued on 23 May 2014 and will be available at www.hsbc.com/ sustainability. Our sustainable operations strategy HSBC’s carbon dioxide emissions are calculated on the basis of the energy used in our buildings and employee business travel from over 30 countries (covering about 93% of our operation by FTE). The data gathered on energy consumption and distance travelled are converted to carbon dioxide emissions using conversion factors from the following sources, if available, in order of preference: 1. factors provided by the data/service providers; 2. factors provided by the local public environmental authorities. For electricity, if specific factors cannot be obtained from the above two sources, we use the latest available carbon emission factors for national grid electricity from the International Energy Agency as recommended for use by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol; and 3. for other types of energy and travel, if no specific factors can be obtained from the first two sources, we use the latest available factors provided by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and/or the Department of Energy and Climate Change in the UK. To incorporate all of the operations over which we have financial (management) control, the calculated carbon dioxide emissions are scaled up on the basis of the FTE coverage rate to account for any missing data (typically less than 10% of FTEs). In addition, emission uplift rates are applied to allow for uncertainty on the quality and coverage of emission measurement and estimation. The rates are 4% for electricity, 10% for other energy and 6% for business travel, based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and HSBC’s internal analysis of data coverage and quality. Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes 2013 2012 Total 889,000 963,000 From energy 755,000 825,000 From travel 134,000 138,000 Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE 2013 2012 Total 3.43 3.61 From energy 2.91 3.09 From travel 0.52 0.52 Our greenhouse gas reporting year runs from October to September. For the year from 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013, carbon dioxide emissions from our operations were 889,000 tonnes. HSBC Technology and Services employs around a third of our workforce and runs our operations, including real estate, IT infrastructure and supply chain. One of these goals, known as ‘REDUCE’, is to cut annual carbon dioxide emissions per employee by a tonne between 2012 and 2020 to 2.5 tonnes. Our baseline year is 2011, in which emissions were 3.44 tonnes (rounded up to 3.5). To tackle this challenge, we set a 10-point sustainable operations strategy at the start of 2012, listed below. This strategy covers issues from sustainability leadership and engagement to supply-chain collaboration, and includes ambitious targets to reduce our use of energy and reduce our waste. We made progress in 2013, but recognise that stretching goals like these will take time to achieve. We have capitalised on ‘quick wins’ where possible, but have also spent time to analyse thoroughly and prepare for achieving these targets. Our 10-point sustainable operations strategy 1. We are engaging all employees in delivering improved efficiency by 2020 with training and sustainability leadership programmes. 2. We will increase energy consumption from renewables from 24% to 40% and increase self-generated electricity capacity from zero to 5%. 3. We will collaborate with our supply chain to achieve sustainable savings through efficiency and innovation. 4. We will improve the energy efficiency of our Group data centres. 5. An annual US$5m investment in an HSBC Eco-efficiency Fund has been committed to trial sustainable innovation. 6. Our target is to increase the recycling of HSBC’s waste from 60% to 100% of our office waste and electronic waste. 363 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 7. Work on all new and redesigned buildings costing over US$10m in our portfolio of 7,500 buildings will be done to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (‘LEED’) certification standards. 8. We aim to reduce annual energy consumption per employee by 1MWh. 9. We will reduce paper usage, ensure it comes from sustainable sources, and encourage paperless banking for all retail and commercial customers. 10. We continue to promote alternatives to travel, reducing travel carbon emissions per employee. Further details on our progress with achieving our sustainability operations programme will be published in our Sustainability Report 2013 on 23 May 2014. Further information on environmental, social and community obligations can be found on page 34. Sustainability risk Our approach to managing sustainability risk is detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 297. Conduct & Values Committee Members 1 Rachel Lomax (Chairman) Laura Cha Sir Jonathan Evans 1 All members appointed on 17 January 2014. The Conduct & Values Committee, established by resolution of the Board in January 2014, will focus on ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC treats customers fairly and openly, does business with the right clients and in the right way, is a responsible employer, acts responsibly towards the communities in which HSBC operates and treats other stakeholders fairly. The Committee has non-executive responsibility for, and advises the Board on, HSBC policies, procedures and standards to ensure that the Group conducts business responsibly and consistently adheres to HSBC Values. The Committee will meet at least four times each year. Chairman’s Committee Members 1 Douglas Flint (Chairman) John Coombe Joachim Faber Rona Fairhead Stuart Gulliver Rachel Lomax Iain Mackay Marc Moses Sir Simon Robertson 1 All members appointed on 22 November 2013, unless otherwise indicated. The Chairman’s Committee, established by resolution of the Board in November 2013, has the power to act on behalf of the Board between scheduled Board meetings to facilitate ad hoc unforeseen business requiring urgent Board approval. Internal control Procedures The Directors are responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems and for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the ‘Handbook of Rules and Guidance’ issued by the FCA and PRA, procedures have been designed for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information used within the business or for publication. These procedures can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. These procedures are designed to provide effective internal control within HSBC and accord with the Financial Reporting Council’s guidance for directors issued in its revised form in 2005 and which is the subject of a recent consultation which closed in January 2014. They have been in place throughout the year and up to 24 February 2014, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. In the case of companies acquired during the year, the risk management and internal controls in place are being reviewed against HSBC’s benchmarks and integrated into HSBC’s processes. HSBC’s key risk management and internal control procedures include the following: • Group standards. Functional, operating, financial reporting and certain management reporting standards are established by global function management committees, for application throughout HSBC. These are supplemented by operating standards set by functional and local management as required for the type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary. • Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board. Authority is delegated to each relevant Group Managing Director to manage the day to day affairs of the business or function for which he or she is accountable within limits set by the Board. Delegation of authority from 364 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) the Board requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities and to oversee the establishment and maintenance of systems of control that are appropriate to the business or function. Appointments to the most senior positions within HSBC requires the approval of the Board. • Risk identification and monitoring. Systems and procedures are in place to identify, control and report on the major risks facing HSBC (see page 36) including credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability, operational (including accounting, tax, legal, regulatory compliance, financial crime compliance, fiduciary, security and fraud, systems operations, project and people risk), insurance and Islamic finance risk. Exposure to these risks is monitored by risk management committees, asset, liability and capital management committees and executive committees in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in Risk Management Meetings (‘RMM’) of the GMB which are chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer. RMM meets regularly to address asset, liability and risk management issues. HSBC’s operational risk profile and the effective implementation of the Group’s operational risk management framework is monitored by the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee (‘GORCC’), which reports to the RMM. Model risks are monitored by the Model Oversight Committee which also reports to the RMM. The minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and the Board. • Changes in market conditions/practices. Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could expose HSBC to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. During 2013, attention was focused on: – emerging markets’ slowdown; – increased geopolitical risk; – regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability; – regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions commitments and consent orders and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand; – dispute risk; – heightened execution risk; – internet crime and fraud; – information security risk; and – model risk. • Strategic plans. Periodic strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions and certain geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s strategy. Annual Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted by all major HSBC operating companies and set out the key business initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives. • Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure Committee reviews material public disclosures made by HSBC Holdings for any material errors, misstatements or omissions. The membership of the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Group Company Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, Legal, Risk (including Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory Compliance), Communications, Investor Relations, and Internal Audit functions and representatives from the principal regions and global businesses. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes within the Global Finance and Risk functions that support expert and rigorous analytical review of financial reporting complemented by certified reviews by heads of global businesses, global functions and certain legal entities. • Financial reporting. The Group financial reporting process for preparing the consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2013 is controlled using documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by a chart of accounts with detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued by Group Finance to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting period end. The submission of financial information from each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject to certification by the responsible financial officer, and analytical review procedures at reporting entity and Group levels. • Responsibility for risk management. Management of global businesses and global functions are primarily accountable for managing, measuring and monitoring their risks and controls. Processes consistent with the three lines of defence risk management and the internal control model are in place to ensure 365 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) weaknesses are escalated to senior management and addressed. • IT operations. Centralised functional control is exercised over all IT developments and operations. Common systems are employed for similar business processes wherever practicable. • Functional management. Global functional management is responsible for setting policies, procedures and standards for the following risks: credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability and operational risk (including accounting, tax, legal, financial crime compliance, regulatory compliance, fiduciary, information security, security and fraud, systems and people risk) insurance and Islamic finance risk. Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies. The concurrence of the appropriate global function is required, however, to credit proposals with specified higher risk characteristics. Credit and market risks are measured and reported on in subsidiaries and aggregated for review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide basis. • CEO Attestation process. Global Operational Risk coordinate the annual CEO Attestation process under which the chief executive officer of each of the Group’s material subsidiaries confirms that the internal control framework applicable to that subsidiary has been assessed and any significant open issues have been identified, with action plans in place to address weaknesses. The remediation of these issues is monitored by the Operational Risk and Internal Control (‘ORIC’) teams for the relevant regions/ global businesses and reports on progress are presented to their ORIC committees and quarterly to Global Operational Risk. An annual report and updates on identified issues and remediation plans are presented to the GRC and the GAC. • Internal Audit. The establishment and maintenance of appropriate systems of risk management and internal control is primarily the responsibility of business management. The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally controlled, provides independent and objective assurance in respect of the adequacy of the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s framework of risk management, control and governance processes across the Group, focusing on the areas of greatest risk to HSBC using a risk-based approach. The Group Head of Global Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GRC and Chairman of the GAC in relation to the independence of the function and resourcing, with a secondary executive reporting line to the Group Chief Executive Officer. • Internal Audit recommendations. Executive management is responsible for ensuring that recommendations made by the Global Internal Audit function are implemented within an appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be provided to Global Internal Audit. • Reputational risk. Policies to guide subsidiary companies and management at all levels in the conduct of business to safeguard the Group’s reputation are established by the Board and its committees, subsidiary company boards and their committees and senior management. Reputational risks can arise from a variety of causes including environmental, social and governance issues, as a consequence of operational risk events and as a result of employees acting in a manner inconsistent with HSBC Values. HSBC’s reputation depends upon the way in which it conducts its business and may be affected by the way in which clients, to which it provides financial services, conduct their business or use financial products and services. Role of GAC and GRC On behalf of the Board, the GAC has responsibility for oversight of risk management and internal controls over financial reporting and the GRC has responsibility for oversight of risk management and internal controls, other than over financial reporting. During the year, the GRC and the GAC have kept under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control and have reported regularly to the Board. In carrying out their reviews, the GRC and the GAC receive regular business and operational risk assessments, regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Global Head of Internal Audit; reports on the annual reviews of the internal control framework of HSBC Holdings which cover all internal controls, both financial and non-financial; annual confirmations from chief executives of principal subsidiary companies as to whether there have been any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in internal controls; internal audit reports; external audit reports; prudential reviews; and regulatory reports. The GRC monitors the status of top and 366 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) emerging risks and considers whether the mitigating actions put in place are appropriate. In addition, when unexpected losses have arisen or when incidents have occurred which indicate gaps in the control framework or in adherence to Group policies, the GRC and the GAC review special reports, prepared at the instigation of management, which analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions proposed by management to address the issue. Effectiveness of internal controls The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of our system of risk management and internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management systems, the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the accounting and financial reporting function and the risk function, and their training programmes and budget. The review does not extend to joint ventures or associates. The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of our framework of controls. Statement on going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources. HSBC’s principal activities, business and operating models, strategic direction and top and emerging risks are described in the ‘Strategic Report’; a financial summary, including a review of the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, is provided in the ‘Financial Review’ section; HSBC’s objectives, policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity and market risk are described in the ‘Risk’ section; and HSBC’s approach to capital management and allocation is described in the ‘Capital’ section. Employees At 31 December 2013 we had a total workforce of 263,000 full-time and part-time employees compared with 270,000 at the end of 2012 and 298,000 at the end of 2011. Our main centres of employment are the UK with approximately 46,000 employees, India 31,000, Hong Kong 29,000, Brazil 22,000, mainland China 19,000, Mexico 18,000, the US 16,000 and France 9,000. In the context of the current global financial services operating environment, a high performance and values-led work force is critical. We encourage open and honest communication in decision making. Employment issues and financial, economic, regulatory and competitive factors affecting HSBC’s performance are regularly shared with our employees. Reward Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market competitive, underpinned by an ethical and values based performance culture which aligns the interests of our employees, shareholders, regulators and customers. Employee relations We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as appropriate. The five highest concentrations of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, Malta and Mexico. It is our policy to maintain well-developed communications and consultation programmes with all employee representative bodies and there have been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes during the past five years. Diversity and inclusion HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high performance culture where all employees are valued, respected and where their opinions count. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture where employees believe that their views are heard, their concerns are attended to and they work in an environment where bias, discrimination and harassment on any matter, including gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality and disability are not tolerated and where advancement is based on objective criteria. Our inclusive culture helps us respond to our diverse customer base, while developing and retaining a secure supply of skilled, committed employees. Our culture will be strengthened by employing the best 367 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) people and optimising their ideas, abilities and differences. Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda and related activities resides with executives on the Group Diversity Committee, complemented by the Group People Committee and local People/Diversity Committees. Employee development The development of employees in both developed and emerging markets is essential to the future strength of our business. We have implemented a systematic approach to identifying, developing and deploying talented employees to ensure an appropriate supply of high calibre individuals with the values, skills and experience for current and future senior management positions. In 2013, we continued to build global consistency across our learning curricula and to improve the relevance and quality of learning programmes. We have endeavoured to achieve a standard of excellence focusing on leadership, values and technical capability. Employment of disabled persons We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The employment of disabled persons is included in this commitment and the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. Health and safety HSBC is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for our employees, customers and visitors and pro-actively managing the health and safety risks associated with our business. Our objectives include compliance with health and safety laws in the countries in which we operate, identifying, removing, reducing or controlling material health and safety risks, reducing the likelihood of fires, dangerous occurrences and accidents to employees, customers and visitors. The Corporate Real Estate department within HSBC has overall responsibility for health and safety and has set global health and safety policies and standards for use wherever in the world HSBC operates. Achieving these policies and standards is the responsibility of the country Chief Operating Officer. In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, Global Security and Fraud Risk provide regular security risk assessments to assist management in judging the level of terrorist and violent criminal threat. Regional Security and Fraud Risk functions conduct biannual security reviews of all Group critical buildings to ensure measures to protect our staff, buildings, assets and information are appropriate to the level of threat. HSBC remains committed to the effective management of health and safety and protecting employees, customers and visitors to HSBC. Remuneration policy The quality and commitment of our employees is fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very best people. As trust and relationships are vital in our business our goal is to recruit those who are committed to making a long-term career with the organisation. HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective through balancing both short-term and sustainable performance. Our reward strategy aims to reward success, not failure, and be properly aligned with our risk framework and related outcomes. In order to ensure alignment between remuneration and our business strategy, individual remuneration is determined through assessment of performance delivered against both annual and long-term objectives summarised in performance scorecards as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance is judged, not only on what is achieved over the short and long term, but also on how it is achieved, as the latter contributes to the sustainability of the organisation. 368 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) The financial and non-financial measures incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the long-term strategy of the Group. Further information on the Group’s approach to remuneration is given on page 378. Employee share plans Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with those of shareholders. The tables on the following pages set out the particulars of outstanding options, including those held by employees working under employment contracts that are regarded as ‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance. The options were granted at nil consideration. No options have been granted to substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the individual limit for each share plan. No options were cancelled by HSBC during the year. A summary for each plan of the total number of the options which were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2013 is shown in the following tables. Further details required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our website at www.hsbc.com by selecting ‘Investor Relations’, then ‘Governance’, then ‘Share Plans’, and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk or can be obtained upon request from the Group Company Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on page 403. Note 7 on the Financial Statements gives details on share-based payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans. All-employee share plans All-employee share option plans have operated within the Group and eligible employees have been granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Options under the plans are usually exercisable after one, three or five years. The exercise of options may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example on retirement, and may be extended in certain circumstances, for example on the death of a participant, the executors of the participant’s estate may exercise options up to six months beyond the normal exercise period. The middle market closing price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List on 19 September 2013, the day before options were granted in 2013, was £6.99. There will be no further grants under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International. A new international all-employee share purchase plan was launched in the third quarter of 2013. The all-employee share option plans will terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to terminate the plans at an earlier date. HSBC Holdings All-employee Share Option Plans HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards Exercise price Exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2013 during year during year during year 31 Dec 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Plan1 25 Apr2007 20 Sep2013 (£) 3.3116 (£) 6.1760 1 Aug2012 1 May2019 54,976,065 8,679,304 4,863,212 4,841,271 53,950,886 Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International2 25 Apr2007 24 Apr2012 (£)3.3116 (£)6.1760 1 Aug 2012 1 Feb2018 17,468,737 – 5,552,255 1,894,032 10,022,450 25 Apr2007 24 Apr2012 (US$)4.8876 (US$)12.0958 1 Aug2012 1 Feb2018 6,488,894 – 1,218,127 1,273,698 3,997,069 25 Apr2007 24 Apr2012 (€)3.6361 (€)9.0818 1 Aug 2012 1 Feb2018 2,180,263 – 434,028 171,583 1,574,652 25 Apr2007 24 Apr2012 (HK$)37.8797 (HK$)94.5057 1 Aug2012 1 Feb2018 31,637,840 – 5,900,170 1,522,329 24,215,341 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £7.20. 2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £7.30. 369 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Discretionary Share Option Plans There have been no grants of discretionary share options under employee share plans since 30 September 2005. Exercise HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards price (£) Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2013 during year during year 31 Dec 2013 HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan1,2 2 May2003 20 Apr2005 6.0216 7.9606 2 May2006 20 Apr2015 87,172,923 17,594,891 14,552,164 55,025,868 HSBC Share Plan1 30 Sep2005 7.9911 30 Sep2008 30 Sep2015 86,046 – – 86,046 1 The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan expired on 26 May 2005 and the HSBC Share Plan expired on 27 May 2011. No options have been granted under the Plan since that date. 2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £7.11. Subsidiary company share plans HSBC Bank Bermuda Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all outstanding options over HSBC Bank Bermuda shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda share) by the average price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares over the five-day period to the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC Holdings under the share plans of HSBC Bank Bermuda are set out in the following table. No further options will be granted under the share plans of HSBC Bank Bermuda. HSBC Bank Bermuda Exercise HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards price (US$) Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2013 during year during year 31 Dec 2013 Share Option Plan 2000 4 Feb2003 21 Apr2003 9.32 10.33 4 Feb 2004 21 Apr2013 149,924 – 149,924 – 370 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Other required disclosures Further information about share capital, directors’ interests, dividends and shareholders is set out in the Appendix to this section on page 372. Annual General Meeting All Directors listed on pages 330 to 335 attended the Annual General Meeting in 2013, with the exception of Marc Moses and Sir Jonathan Evans who were appointed Directors on 1 January 2014 and 6 August 2013 respectively, and Kathleen Casey who will be appointed a Director with effect from 1 March 2014. Our Annual General Meeting in 2014 will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on 23 May 2014 at 11.00am. An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on 19 May 2014 at 4.30pm. Resolutions to receive the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report, HSBC’s remuneration policy and an increase in the maximum variable component of remuneration under CRD IV from 100% to 200% of the fixed component of remuneration, elect or re-elect Directors and reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting. KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office and the Group Audit Committee and the Board has recommended that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed. Resolutions will also be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to renew the authorities for the allotment of shares, the disapplication of pre-emption rights and the purchase of ordinary shares, seek an authority for the creation and issue of convertible securities and approve general meetings (other than Annual General Meetings) being called on a minimum of 14 clear days’ notice. A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting will be available on www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings will be available shortly after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting until 30 June 2014 on www.hsbc.com. On behalf of the Board D J Flint, Group Chairman 24 February 2014 HSBC Holdings plc Registered number 617987 371 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Appendix to Report of the Directors Other required disclosures Share capital Issued share capital The nominal value of our issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2013 was US$9,415,018,019.50 divided into 18,830,007,039 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 1 non-cumulative preference share of £0.01. The percentage of the nominal value of our total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2013 represented by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively. Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of Association subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, redemption. To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no lien and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency. The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped (if required). The transfer must be delivered to our registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves the title of the transferor. If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares) and has failed in relation to any shares (the ‘default shares’) to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, unless the Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder. If the default shares represent at least 0.25% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be withheld by the Company without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered except in limited circumstances. Ordinary shares Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles HSBC Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits available for distribution. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the nominal amount paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly. Subject to the Articles, the Board may, with the prior authority of an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, offer to any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the Board) of any dividend specified by the ordinary resolution. At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or 24 May 2017. Further information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim dividends on the ordinary shares can be found on page 567. 372 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Preference shares There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of HSBC Holdings, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each (the ‘Dollar Preference Shares’), non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each (the ‘Sterling Preference Shares’) and non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 (the ‘Euro Preference Shares’). The Dollar Preference Shares in issue are Series A Dollar Preference Shares and the Sterling Preference Share in issue is a Series A Sterling Preference Share. There are no Euro Preference Shares in issue. Dollar Preference Shares Holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings if any dividend payable on the relevant preference shares in respect of such period as the Board shall determine prior to allotment thereof is not paid in full or in such other circumstances, and upon and subject to such terms, as the Board may determine prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 24 February 2014 the relevant period determined by the Board is four consecutive dividend payment dates. Whenever holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are entitled to vote on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of hands every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote per preference share held by him or her or such number of votes per share as the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such share. Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right to a non-cumulative preferential dividend at such rate, on such dates and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other preference shares in issue and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards income; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards income). A dividend of US$62 per annum is payable on each Dollar Preference Share in issue at 24 February 2014. The dividend is paid at the rate of US$15.50 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. A dividend will not be declared or paid on the Dollar Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the PRA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the relevant preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. Dividends will not be declared or paid on any class of shares of HSBC Holdings ranking lower in the right to dividends than the Dollar Preference Shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the Dollar Preference Shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the Dollar Preference Shares for the then-current dividend period. The Dollar Preference Shares carry no rights to participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings other than as set out in the Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act 2006, do not confer any right to participate in any offer or invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do not confer any right of conversion and do not confer any right to participate in any issue of bonus shares or shares issued by way of capitalisation of reserves. Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right in a winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the assets of HSBC Holdings available for distribution to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other relevant preference shares and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu there with as regards repayment of capital; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards repayment of capital), a sum equal to any unpaid dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance with or pursuant to the Articles of Association and the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the Dollar Preference Shares together with such premium (if any) as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 24 February 2014, the premium is US$999.99 per Dollar Preference Share. The Dollar Preference Shares may be redeemed in accordance with the Articles of Association and the terms on which Dollar Preference Shares were issued and allotted. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 24 February 2014, HSBC Holdings may redeem such shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to the prior consent of the PRA. 373 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Sterling Preference Shares The Sterling Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Sterling Preference Shares to be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. The one Sterling Preference Share in issue at 24 February 2014 carries the same rights and obligations as the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 24 February 2014 to the extent described in the section above save as follows: 1. the holder of the Sterling Preference Share is not entitled to attend or vote at general meetings; 2. the Sterling Preference Share may be redeemed in whole on any date as may be determined by the Board; and 3. the exceptions to the circumstances in which a dividend will not be declared or paid do not apply. A dividend of £0.04 per annum is payable on the Sterling Preference Share in issue at 24 February 2014. The dividend is paid at the rate of £0.01 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. Euro Preference Shares The Euro Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Euro Preference Shares which are to be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. Share capital during 2013 The following events occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings: Scrip dividends HSBC Holdings ordinary shares issued Aggregatenominal value Market value per share Issued in lieu of On Number US$ US$ £ Fourth interim dividend for 2012 8 May 2013 50,730,560 25,365,280 10.6452 7.0182 First interim dividend for 2013 11 July 2013 14,989,132 7,494,566 11.1545 7.4126 Second interim dividend for 2013 9 October 2013 89,435,788 44,717,894 10.6401 6.8646 Third interim dividend for 2013 11 December 2013 78,809,402 39,404,701 10.9669 6.8202 All-Employee share plans Number Aggregatenominal value Exercise price US$ from to HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans HSBC ordinary shares issued in £ 10,415,467 5,207,734 £ 3.3116 7.2869 HSBC ordinary shares issued in HK$ 5,900,170 2,950,085 HK$ 37.8797 63.9864 HSBC ordinary shares issued in US$ 1,218,1277 609,064 US$ 4.8876 11.8824 HSBC ordinary shares issued in € 434,028 217,014 € 3.6361 7.5571 Options over HSBC ordinary shares lapsed 9,702,913 4,851,457 Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to approximately 15,000 applications from HSBC employees in the UK on 20 September 2013 8,679,304 4,339,652 Plan d’Epargne HSBC ordinary shares issued for the benefit of non-UK resident employees of HSBC France and its subsidiaries 1,970,877 985,439 € 6.6368 Discretionary share incentive plans HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Aggregatenominal value Exercise price Options issued US$ from (£) to (£) lapsed Options exercised under: The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan 17,594,891 8,797,446 6.0216 7.0848 9,939,310 HSBC share plans HSBC Holdingsordinary shares Aggregatenominal value Market value per share issued US$ from (£) to (£) Vesting of awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 82,499,933 41,249,967 6.465 7.547 374 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Authority to allot shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot new shares. The general authority is to allot up to 3,712,800,000 ordinary shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. Within this, the Directors have authority to allot up to a maximum of 928,200,000 ordinary shares wholly for cash to persons other than existing shareholders. Other than as described in the table above headed ‘Share capital during 2013’, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2013. Treasury shares In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC Holdings will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of any shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury. No shares are currently held in treasury. Directors’ interests Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2013 had the following interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations: Directors’ interests – shares and loan capital At 31 December 2013 At 1 January 2013 Beneficial owner Child under 18 or spouse Jointlywith anotherperson Trustee Total interests1 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares J D Coombe 22,387 23,397 – – – 23,397 Sir Jonathan Evans – 1,495 – – – 1,495 J Faber – 10,605 – – – 10,605 R A Fairhead 21,300 – – 21,660 – 21,660 D J Flint 350,488 392,664 – – – 392,664 S T Gulliver 2,730,477 2,553,592 176,885 – – 2,730,477 W S H Laidlaw 33,668 33,706 – – 1,4162 35,122 J P Lipsky3 15,000 15,000 – – – 15,000 I J Mackay 118,813 65,130 – – – 65,130 Sir Simon Robertson 177,236 9,912 – – – 9,912 HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ L M L Cha 300,000 – – – – – HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm J Faber4 5.1 5.1 – – – 5.1 HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. 5.3687% Preferred Securities 2014 € € € € € € R Fassbind 500,000 – – – – – HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 2) L.P. 4.61% Non-cumulative Step-up Perpetual Preferred Securities US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ R Fassbind 500,000 – – – – – 1 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, the HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 403. At 31 December 2013, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee share plans were: Douglas Flint – 444,103; Stuart Gulliver – 4,885,384 and Iain Mackay – 678,831. Each Director’s total interests represents less than 0.03% of the shares in issue. 2 Non-beneficial. 375 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 3 Interest in 3,000 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 4 Non-beneficial interest in renminbi (RMB) 1.2m 2.875% Notes 2015. No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated above, none of the Directors had an interest in any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any associated corporation at the beginning or at the end of the year, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year. Since the end of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Director has increased by the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares shown against his name: HSBC Holdings ordinary shares D J Flint (beneficial owner) 201 1 The acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions. There have been no other changes in the share and loan capital interests of the Directors from 31 December 2013 to the date of this report. Any subsequent changes up to the last practicable date before the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be set out in the notes to that notice. At 31 December 2013, non-executive Directors and senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) held, in aggregate, beneficial interests in 14,702,234 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares (0.0781% of the issued ordinary shares). At 31 December 2013, executive Directors and senior management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 224,916 of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan. These options are exercisable between 2013 and 2016 at prices ranging from £3.3116 to £7.2181 per ordinary share. Dividends and shareholders Dividends for 2013 First, second and third interim dividends for 2013, each of US$0.10 per ordinary share, were paid on 11 July 2013, 9 October 2013 and 11 December 2013 respectively. Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives more information on the dividends declared in 2013. On 24 February 2014, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.19 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable on 30 April 2014 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 22 April 2014, with a scrip dividend alternative. As the fourth interim dividend for 2013 was declared after 31 December 2013 it has not been included in the balance sheet of HSBC as a debt. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2013 were US$49,339m. A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20% non-cumulative US Dollar Preference Share, Series A (‘Series A Dollar Preference Share’), (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share), was paid on 15 March, 17 June, 16 September and 16 December 2013. Dividends for 2014 Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per Series A Dollar Preference Share (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share) and £0.01 per Series A Sterling Preference Share were declared on 7 February 2014 for payment on 17 March 2014. Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority. The Board has adopted a shareholder communication policy which is available on www.hsbc.com. Extensive information about our activities is provided to shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Strategic Report and the Interim Report which are available on www.hsbc.com. There is regular dialogue with institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholdings and our business are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss our 376 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) progress. Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing to the Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company (excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting. A resolution may properly be moved at a meeting unless it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s constitution or otherwise); it is defamatory of any person; or it is frivolous or vexatious. A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may be made in writing to the postal address referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. At any meeting convened on such request no business shall be transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. Notifiable interests in share capital At 31 December 2013, we had received the following disclosures (which have not been subsequently changed) of major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the FCA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: • Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on 10 July 2013 that on 9 July 2013 its holding of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares fell below 3.00% of the total voting rights at that date; and • BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 December 2009 that on 7 December 2009 it had the following: an indirect interest in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of 1,142,439,457; qualifying financial instruments with 705,100 voting rights that may be acquired if the instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments which refer to 234,880 voting rights, each representing 6.56%, 0.0041% and 0.0013%, respectively, of the total voting rights at that date. At 31 December 2013, according to the register maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong: • JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 27 December 2013 that on 23 December 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,316,912,627 shares; a short position of 100,981,726 shares; and a lending pool of 874,324,091 shares, each representing 6.99%, 0.53% and 4.64%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date; and • BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 8 January 2013 that on 3 January 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,110,172,768 shares and a short position of 35,234,325 shares, each representing 6.00% and 0.19%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at least 25% of the total issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 2013 and up to the date of this report. Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC Bank and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which are members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries have purchased, sold or redeemed any of our listed securities during the year ended 31 December 2013. 377 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report Directors’ Remuneration Report Page App Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman 378 Directors’ remuneration policy 381 Annual report on remuneration 392 Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report 406 Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am very pleased to present the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. In this report we provide details of the HSBC remuneration policy, what we paid our Directors in respect of the year 2013, and why. I believe the Directors’ Remuneration Report should be transparent, and include a link between the performance of our executives and their pay. I hope, therefore, that this report will give you a greater understanding of this link. This report has been prepared in compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, as well as the Companies Act 2006 and other related regulations. Building on the enhancements we made last year in anticipation of the new regulations, this report is divided into three sections: my letter to you as Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’); our proposed remuneration policy; and an annual report on what we paid our Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013. Additional remuneration-related disclosures are provided in the appendix to this report. Industry changes and key challenges The main drivers of change in remuneration policy and practice within the financial services industry are the new regulations under CRD IV and the additional regulatory technical standards released under the requirements of CRD IV by the European Banking Authority (‘EBA’). Specifically, the changes in the rules on remuneration and the application of a cap on variable pay that can be paid to any ‘material risk taker’ (being employees who have been identified as having a material impact on the institution’s risk profile) in EU headquartered banks, presents significant challenges for the HSBC Group. As a worldwide business, a significant number of our material risk takers are based outside the EU. In these key markets, most of our international peers and domestic competitors do not have to comply with similar restrictions. This situation has necessitated a review of our remuneration policy, especially the balance between fixed and variable pay, to ensure that HSBC can remain competitive on a total compensation basis for our key talent. Under the variable pay cap introduced by CRD IV, variable pay awards are restricted to 100% of fixed pay for a material risk taker but this can be increased to 200% of fixed pay with shareholders’ approval. Following a review of the key factors of our remuneration policy and bearing in mind the interests of our shareholders, the Committee believes it is necessary to increase the variable pay cap to 200% of fixed pay for material risk takers, who include all the executive Directors. This will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. The requested increase in the cap would give us the ability to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay. It will also enable us to retain a larger quantum of variable pay that would be subject to malus than would be the case if the Committee were not to take advantage of this provision. We believe that it is vital to maintain the link of variable pay to the achievement of the business objectives of the Company, and it is also necessary to ensure our total compensation package for material risk takers remains competitive. As a result, a rebalancing from variable pay to fixed pay to the extent necessary to achieve this objective is warranted. We have discussed with a representative group of our major shareholders the proposed changes to our remuneration policy to deal with this rebalancing. Overall, our shareholders have been broadly supportive of the proposed changes and recognise the importance of ensuring that we can retain our key talent not just in the EU, but also in Asia, Latin America and North America where the majority of our material risk takers reside. These changes are detailed in the section on remuneration policy. One further change relates to the proposed arrangements for the Group Chairman. Upon his appointment in 2010, it was agreed that he would not be eligible for any annual incentive. This remains appropriate. Our current remuneration policy provides that the Group Chairman is not expected to be granted awards under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) other than in exceptional circumstances. To date, the Committee has not made any such awards to him. In framing the proposed remuneration policy, the Committee is required to clarify and more clearly define the circumstances in which an award could be made. Under the current policy, the theoretical maximum award for the Group Chairman would have been the same as for 378 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) other executive directors, namely 200% of fixed pay. The Committee determined this should be restricted to 100% of fixed pay. Additionally, the Committee determined that given the exceptional circumstances over the medium term of intense regulatory change, an increased focus on changing conduct and behaviour and the implementation of enhanced banking standards, it would be appropriate for the Group Chairman to be eligible to receive an award under the GPSP, given his executive role in leading the Group’s interactions on regulatory policy and providing leadership and tone to drive an improvement in the Group’s compliance, conduct and behaviour. Any GPSP award to the Group Chairman will be determined by reference to non-financial and qualitative measures and will in all other material respects be made on the same basis as GPSP awards to other executive directors. All other components of the Group Chairman’s remuneration arrangements are unaffected and he will not be eligible for the fixed pay allowance outlined above. Further details are set out in this report. We are not proposing any other material changes to our remuneration policy. The votes in favour of our Directors’ Remuneration Report at recent Annual General Meetings show that this policy has been well supported by our shareholders in the past. The Committee is aware that the UK government has lodged a legal challenge to the variable pay cap in CRD IV with the European Court of Justice (‘ECJ’). If the legal challenge is successful, depending on the detail of the ECJ’s ruling and the extent and timing of any consequential challenges to CRD IV, a revised remuneration policy may need to be submitted to shareholders for approval. The Committee continues to ensure that its malus policy and procedures are sufficiently robust to handle any potential redress and has sought advice from external legal counsel in shaping this policy. Remuneration strategy The quality and long-term commitment of all of our employees is fundamental to our success. We therefore aim to attract, retain and motivate the very best people who are committed to maintaining a long-term career with the Group, and who will perform their role in the long-term interests of shareholders. HSBC’s reward package comprises four key elements: 1. fixed pay; 2. benefits; 3. annual incentive; and 4. the Group Performance Share Plan These elements support the achievement of our objectives through balancing reward for both short-term and long-term sustainable performance. Our strategy is designed to reward only success, and to align employees’ remuneration with our risk framework and risk outcomes. For our most senior employees, the greater part of their reward is deferred and thereby subject to malus, that is, it can be cancelled if warranted by events. In order to ensure alignment between what we pay our people and our business strategy, we assess individual performance against annual and long-term financial and non-financial objectives summarised in performance scorecards. This assessment also takes into account adherence to the HSBC Values of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance is therefore judged not only on what is achieved over the short and long-term but also importantly on how it is achieved, as the Committee believes the latter contributes to the long-term sustainability of the business. Overall performance summary of 2013 During 2013, management continued to reshape the Group and improve returns. The Group announced 20 additional disposals or closures, exiting non-strategic markets and selling businesses and non-core investments. The Group also recorded an additional US$1.5bn in sustainable cost savings, which takes the total annualised savings to US$4.9bn. This surpasses the cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn on sustainable savings since 2011. Management’s continued focus on positioning the business for growth delivered increased underlying revenue in our home markets of the UK and Hong Kong. The following summarises the Group’s 2013 financial performance highlighting the features which were most influential in the Committee’s assessment of management’s performance: • profit before tax rose on both a reported and underlying basis compared with 2013; • underlying revenue grew by 3%, notwithstanding the continuing run-off of our US CML portfolio and the repositioning of our client base in GPB. Revenue increased in CMB reflecting balance sheet growth and improved collaboration with other global businesses. In GB&M, revenue was higher in part reflecting our concentration on customer-facing businesses; • Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LICs’) reduced significantly, notably in North America, Europe, and in the Middle East and North Africa. In North America, which drove the majority of the decrease, the reduction was due in part to improvements in housing market conditions, 379 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) actions taken to accelerate the continued run-off of the portfolio, and lower levels of newly impaired loans and delinquencies in the CML portfolio. In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, LICs remained at low levels. By contrast, LICs rose in Latin America, particularly in Mexico, due to specific impairments in CMB relating to homebuilders reflecting a change in public housing policy and higher collective impairments in RBWM. In Brazil, although credit quality improved as changes to credit strategies in prior periods took effect, higher charges were required for restructured loan account portfolios in RBWM and CMB, and higher specific impairments in CMB; • the cost efficiency ratio decreased from 62.8% in 2012 to 59.6% in 2013. There was a reduction in legal and regulatory settlement costs, notably in the United States, together with lower customer redress charges and restructuring and related costs. The Group continued to invest in strategic initiatives, risk management and compliance resources. Additional sustainable cost savings were generated to partially offset higher operational costs and general inflation; • we maintained a strong balance sheet, with a ratio of customer advances to customer accounts of 72.9%; • the return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity was 9.2%, up from 8.4% in 2012, primarily reflecting lower adverse movements in the fair value of our own debt attributable to credit spreads and lower operating expenses; • dividends in respect of 2013 were increased from US$0.45 per ordinary share in 2012 to US$0.49 per ordinary share; and • our core tier 1 capital increased to 13.6%, up from 12.3% in 2012 and our estimated CRD IV end point basis common equity tier 1 ratio increased to 10.9%, up from 9.5% in 2012, driven by a combination of capital generation and a reduction in risk-weighted assets from management actions. Major decisions and changes to Directors’ remuneration in 2013 There were no major changes to Directors’ remuneration for 2013. Marc Moses was appointed an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014, reflecting the criticality of the Risk function to HSBC, his leadership of that function and his personal contribution to the Group. His remuneration has therefore been brought in line with the executive Directors’ remuneration policy. Exercise of discretion The Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the annual incentive and GPSP award for the Group CEO from that which a formulaic application of his scorecard would have generated. The details are contained on page 397. Discretion was also applied to reduce variable pay proposed for 2013 for other Group employees by US$22m, including members of senior management, consistent with the approach for the Group CEO. Further, the Committee used its discretion to postpone communication and payment of 2013 variable pay awards and postpone the vesting of unvested deferred awards granted to certain individuals in prior years pending completion of internal reviews of certain Group-wide notable events. The Committee has the authority to reduce or cancel such awards and may use this authority based on the outcome of the on-going reviews. As previously disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, the Committee used its discretion to apply malus provisions to cancel part of the unvested deferred awards granted to certain individuals, in respect of the US regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties. Summary of awards The Group variable pay pool for 2013 was established by reference to the Group’s underlying profit before tax, after excluding movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread and the gains and losses from disposals. For the sake of clarity, the impact of fines, penalties and other items of redress is included in the profit measure used to calibrate the variable pay pool. The table below summarises the variable pay pool outcome for 2013. For details see page 393. Group 2013 2012 US$m US$m Variable pay pool – total 3,920 3,689 – as a percentage of pre-tax profit (pre-variable pay) calculated as described above 15% 17% – percentage of pool deferred 18% 17% The following table summarises awards made to executive Directors for the relevant performance years. A breakdown of the awards and further details can be found within the ‘single figure of remuneration’ section on page 395. Total remuneration Variable pay 2013 2012 2013 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 Douglas Flint 2,427 2,424 – – Stuart Gulliver 8,033 7,532 5,500 4,950 Iain Mackay 4,365 3,887 3,222 2,748 Sir Simon Robertson Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee 24 February 2014 380 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Directors’ remuneration policy The following section sets out HSBC’s remuneration policy for our executive and non-executive Directors which is subject to shareholder approval. Our policy is in accordance with the new CRD IV regulations subject to shareholders’ approval which we will seek at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. If approved, the policy is intended to apply for three years to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017. During the term of the policy, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to determine, where appropriate, the quantum of each element of remuneration up to the maximum opportunity set out in the table below. Information on how the policy will be implemented is given on page 386. There are two main changes from our current remuneration policy: • the introduction of a fixed pay allowance based on role and responsibility; and • variable remuneration opportunity limited to a maximum of 200% of fixed pay. Both of these changes are detailed in the policy table and the accompanying notes below. Remuneration policy – executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive and rewarding on-going contribution to role. Base salary reflects the individual’s role, experience and responsibility. Changes are reviewed and approved by the Committee within the context of local requirements and market competitiveness. Base salaries are benchmarked on an annual basis against relevant comparator groups as set out on page 388. The annual base salary for each executive Director is set out in the table on page 404. Base salaries are set at an appropriate level within the range determined by the benchmark group, reflecting each Director’s role, experience and responsibility. Other than in exceptional circumstances, base salary increases for each of the current executive Directors will not increase by more than 15% of current base salary levels during the duration of this policy (for three years to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017). None Fixed pay allowance1 To deliver fixed pay required to reflect the role, skills, and experience of the Directors and to maintain a competitive total remuneration package for the retention of key talent. Fixed pay allowances are non-pensionable and will be granted in shares that vest immediately on a quarterly basis or in such other frequencies as the Committee deems appropriate. These shares (net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security) will be subject to a retention period. 20% of these shares will be released in March immediately following the end of the financial year in which the shares are granted. The remaining 80% will be subject to a retention period of at least 5 years. Dividends will be paid on the vested shares held during the retention period. Fixed pay allowances are determined based on the role and responsibility of each individual. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the expectation will be that the maximum fixed pay allowance for each executive Director will be the difference between (i) 50% of target total remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the ‘Remuneration scenarios’ chart on page 389 and (ii) the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director2. No performance conditions are attached to the fixed pay allowance. However, to align the interest of the executives with the long-term interest of shareholders, the shares awarded will be subject to a retention period. Pension To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive. Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension entitlements. The policy maximum will be 50% of base salary. None 381 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Remuneration policy – executive Directors (continued) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Adhering to the HSBC Values is a prerequisite for any employee to be considered for any variable pay. The HSBC Values are key to the running of a sound, sustainable bank. Specifically, our most senior employees have a separate HSBC Values rating which directly influences their overall performance rating considered by the Committee following the financial year end and, accordingly, their variable pay. Annual incentive1 To drive and reward performance against annual financial and non-financial measures and adherence to HSBC Values which are consistent with the medium to long-term strategy and align to shareholder interests. Deferral structure provides retention value and the ability to apply malus. Awards are delivered in the form of cash and shares. A minimum of 50% of awards will be made in shares. A minimum of 60% of the total award will be deferred and vest over a period of three years or such other period as determined by the Committee. The share awards (net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security) will be subject to a retention period upon vesting, for such period of time as determined by the Committee using its discretion and taking into account regulatory requirements. In respect of deferred share awards, on the vesting of these awards, an amount (in cash or shares), equal to the dividends paid or payable between the grant date and the vesting of the award may be paid on the number of shares vested. In respect of deferred cash awards, a notional return, determined by reference to the dividend yield on shares or such other rate as determined by the Committee for the period between grant and vest, may be paid on vesting in respect of the amount that vests. Awards are made on a discretionary basis. The Committee can, in appropriate circumstances, apply malus to all or part of an unvested award. It may also determine to introduce and operate clawback, in appropriate circumstances and subject to compliance with applicable local laws and regulations, in respect of incentive awards (whether paid in cash or shares) that have vested and been paid out. See page 388 for more details on malus and clawback. The rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 provide the Committee with the discretion to adjust the vesting period of share awards and/or the number of shares underlying an award on the occurrence of corporate events and other reorganisation events specified in the plan rules. The maximum opportunity for variable pay awards is set at 200% of fixed pay2,3. For the purpose of determining incentive awards, fixed pay consists of base salary, fixed pay allowance and cash allowance in lieu of pension. Other benefits are not included. The maximum annual incentive award will be 1/3 of the maximum variable pay opportunity, resulting in a maximum annual incentive of 67% of fixed pay. Target award is 50% of the maximum annual incentive award.2 The Committee assesses performance against targets set for each performance measure and uses its judgement to determine the level of performance achieved for that measure. The overall payout level could be between 0% and 100% of the maximum amount discussed above. The Committee can reduce (to zero if appropriate) the level of payout of awards as determined based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the level of payout so determined does not properly reflect the overall position and performance of the Company during the performance period. Performance is measured against an annual scorecard, based on targets set for financial and non-financial measures. The scorecards vary by individual. For Stuart Gulliver, the financial measures have a weighting of 60% and non-financial measures have a weighting of 40%. For Iain Mackay and Marc Moses, the performance measures will be based on their respective functional objectives linked to our strategic priorities with a weighting of 90% and people-based objectives with a weighting of 10%. Over the duration of the current remuneration policy, the Committee has the discretion to change the overall weighting of each category based on feedback from shareholders and regulators. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in the ‘Annual report on remuneration’ for the relevant year in question. The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to performance targets to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the measurement period (for example a major transaction). The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments within the ‘Annual report on remuneration’, subject to commercial confidentiality. 382 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’)1 To incentivise sustainable long-term performance through the use of pre-grant performance measures and aligns with shareholder interests by requiring shares to be held for the duration of employment. Five-year vesting period provides retention value and the ability to apply malus. Award levels are determined by considering performance up to the end of the financial year against enduring performance measures set out in the long-term performance scorecard. The award vests after a five year period. On vesting, the shares (net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security) must be retained for the duration of the participant’s employment. On cessation of employment the vested shares for good leavers will be released within 30 days of cessation of employment (for the definition of good leaver, see policy on payments for loss of office section on page 391). For leavers not deemed to be good leavers, the vested shares will be released in three equal instalments on each anniversary of the date of cessation of employment. On the vesting of these awards, an amount (in cash or shares), equal to the dividends paid or payable between the grant date and the vesting of the award may be paid on the number of shares vested. Awards are made on a discretionary basis. The Committee can, in appropriate circumstances, apply malus to all or part of an unvested award. It may also determine to introduce and operate clawback, in appropriate circumstances and subject to compliance with applicable local laws and regulations, in respect of incentive awards (whether paid in cash or shares) that have vested and been paid out. See page 388 for more details on malus and clawback. The rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 provide the Committee with the discretion to adjust the vesting period of share awards and/or the number of shares underlying an award on the occurrence of corporate events and other reorganisation events specified in the plan rules. The maximum opportunity for variable pay awards is set at 200% of fixed pay2,3. For the purpose of determining incentive awards fixed pay consists of base salary, fixed pay allowance and cash in lieu of pension. Other benefits are not included. The maximum GPSP award will be 2/3 of the maximum variable pay opportunity, resulting in a maximum GPSP award of 133% of fixed pay. Target award potential is 50% of the maximum GPSP award.2 The maximum GPSP award for the Group Chairman will be 100% of his fixed pay. Target award potential is 50% of the maximum GPSP award. The Committee assesses performance against targets set for each performance measure and uses its judgement to determine the level of performance achieved for that measure. The overall payout level could be between 0% and 100% of the maximum amount discussed above. The Committee can reduce (to zero if appropriate) the level of payout of awards as determined based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the level of payout so determined does not properly reflect the overall position and performance of the Company during the performance period. Performance is measured against a long-term scorecard with financial (60% weighting) and non-financial (40% weighting) measures. Awards for the Group Chairman will be determined by reference to non-financial and qualitative measures including: monitoring and improving HSBC’s reputation with all stakeholders, and providing leadership and tone to drive improvement in the Group’s compliance, conduct and behaviour with a view to becoming over time one of the most reliably compliant financial institutions. Overall performance is to be judged on achievement of measures in the long-term scorecard during the financial year and adherence to HSBC Values, which acts as a gateway. Over the duration of the current remuneration policy, the Committee has the discretion to change the overall weighting of financial and non-financial categories based on feedback from shareholders and regulators. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in the ‘Annual report on remuneration’ for the relevant year in question. The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to performance targets to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the measurement period (for example a major transaction). The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments within the ‘Annual report on remuneration’, subject to commercial confidentiality. 383 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Remuneration policy – executive Directors (continued) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Benefits To provide benefits in accordance with local market practice On-going benefits take account of local market practice and include the provision of medical insurance, income protection insurance, health assessment, life assurance, club membership, tax assistance, use of company car (including any tax due on the benefit) and travel assistance. Stuart Gulliver is also provided with an accommodation and car benefit in Hong Kong. Any tax due on this benefit is borne by HSBC. Additional benefits may also be provided where an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of his/her time in more than one jurisdiction based on business needs. Such benefits could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits. The maximum for each benefit is determined by the nature of the benefit provided and the cost of benefits may vary from year to year based on market premium rates, the Directors’ personal and/or other external circumstances. None Other Provision in case of regulatory changes In the event that regulatory requirements change, such that HSBC must make changes to remuneration that would be in breach of this policy, HSBC will ensure regulatory compliance, even if a revised policy has not been put to shareholders for approval. Any such change in policy would be put to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting. Not applicable Not applicable 384 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply: 2011 – 2013 GPSP, deferred cash and share awards. Vesting of outstanding deferred cash and share based awards granted in prior years, including restricted shares and GPSP awards granted under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 and HSBC Share Plan, will continue to form part of the remuneration policy until vesting. The awards normally vest over a period of up to five years from the date of grant. On vesting of GPSP awards, the shares (net of any shares sold to cover income tax and social security) will be subject to a retention period as discussed in the table above for GPSP awards. On vesting of the deferred share awards granted in 2011 and 2012, the shares (net of any shares sold to cover income tax and social security) will be subject to a retention period of up to six months as specified at the date of grant. On vesting of the deferred share awards and GPSP awards, an amount (in cash or shares) equal to the dividends paid or payable between grant and vesting would be payable on the number of shares vested. For deferred cash awards, a notional return, determined by reference to the dividend yield on shares or such other rate as determined by the Committee for the period between grant and vest may be paid on vesting in respect of the amount that vests. Award levels have already been determined based on the outcome of relevant performance measures in the relevant prior year. The unvested award would be cancelled if the relevant service condition is not met. Also, the deferred share awards granted in March 2013 would be cancelled if the Committee determines in its absolute discretion that the condition of the satisfactory conclusion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the US Department of Justice (‘DPA’), is not met. The maximum grant in prior years for a deferred share award was £5.20m, £0.84m for a deferred cash award, and £3.75m for a GPSP award. Performance was measured against a long-term scorecard including financial and non-financial measures. The vesting of these awards is subject to a service condition. For the deferred share awards granted in March 2013 as part of the annual incentive awards for financial year 2012, the vesting of the awards is also subject to satisfactory conclusion of the DPA. The DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate. 1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, Douglas Flint. He is not eligible for fixed pay allowance and annual incentive awards but will be eligible for GPSP awards. 2 Maximum award potentials for fixed pay allowances and variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. If shareholder approval is not obtained the maximum fixed pay allowance payable for each executive Director under the policy will be the difference between (i) 50% of maximum total remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the ‘Remuneration scenarios’ chart on page 389 and (ii) the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director. Maximum variable pay award levels will be revised to 100% of fixed pay and the maximum annual incentive and GPSP awards will accordingly be reduced to 1/3 and 2/3 of this amount (i.e. 33% and 67% of fixed pay respectively). The increase in the cap to 200% would enable us to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay, whilst retaining a larger quantum of variable pay that can be subject to malus. 3 Consideration was given to the application of discount factors under the proposed EBA guidelines to compute the value of the GPSP awards for the variable pay cap under CRD IV. Based on the current terms of the EBA guidelines, the Committee considers the impact of the discount factors would be minimal and does not intend to use the discount factors to increase the variable pay cap for executive Directors in order to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure. Notes to the ‘Remuneration policy table – executive Directors’ Differences in policy applied to employees generally The mix of fixed and variable pay granted to an employee is commensurate with the individual’s role, experience and responsibility and the local market. Fixed pay allowances will only be granted to certain material risk takers as defined by the EBA based on their role, function, experience and 385 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) technical expertise. Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers will receive shares with the same release profile as the executive Directors. All other employees will receive the fixed pay allowance in cash when it is below a specified threshold. Where the fixed pay allowance is above the specified threshold, all of it will be received in shares that vest immediately. Any shares delivered (net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security) as part of the fixed pay allowance would be subject to a retention period. 40% of the shares will be released in March following the end of the relevant financial year in which the shares were granted. The remaining 60% will be released in three equal annual tranches on each anniversary of the initial release. Group Managing Directors participate in both the annual incentive and the GPSP. Group General Managers participate in the annual incentive and may receive other long-term awards. Other employees across the Group are eligible to participate in annual incentive arrangements. Choice of performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance measures as they reflect the Group’s financial targets and strategy. The measures were determined in consultation with major shareholders. Performance targets are set taking into account the economic environment, the Group’s strategic priorities and risk appetite. Changes in policy for 2014 from 2013 The requirement in CRD IV to limit the variable pay that can be awarded to 100% of fixed pay or, with shareholders’ approval, 200% of fixed pay (in accordance with the requirement in CRD IV) presents challenges for HSBC to remain competitive commercially with our non-EU based international and domestic competitors and protect our talent and market positions. In order to deal with these challenges we have introduced changes to our remuneration structure for 2014. The table below summarises the changes from the remuneration policy. These changes will be effective from the 2014 Annual General Meeting, subject to shareholders’ approval. UK government legal challenge The UK government has lodged a legal challenge to the variable pay cap in CRD IV with the ECJ. If the legal challenge is successful, depending on the detail of the ECJ’s ruling and the extent and timing of any consequential changes to CRD IV, a revised remuneration policy may need to be submitted to shareholders for approval before the expiry of the current policy at the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting. Changes in remuneration policy for 2014 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performancemetrics Salary No change No change No change (none) Fixed pay allowance1 Introduction of share allowance Maximum fixed pay allowance for each executive Director will be the difference between (i) 50% of target remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the ‘Remuneration scenarios’ chart on page 389 and (ii) the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director. None Benefits No change No change No change (none) Total variable pay No change Maximum at 900% of salary reduced to 200% of fixed pay No change Annual incentive1 No change Maximum incentive reduced from 300% of base salary to 67% of fixed pay See page 382 GPSP1 No change Maximum incentive reduced from 600% of base salary to 133% of fixed pay See page 383 Pension No change No change No change (none) 1 Maximum award potentials for fixed pay allowances and variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. If shareholder approval is not obtained the maximum fixed pay allowance payable for each executive Director under the policy will be the difference between (i) 50% of maximum total remuneration of the executive Director under this policy as shown in the ‘Remuneration scenarios’ chart on page 389 and (ii) the aggregate of the base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension for that executive Director. Maximum variable pay award levels will be revised to 100% of fixed pay and the maximum annual incentive and GPSP awards will accordingly be reduced to 1/3 and 2/3 of this amount (i.e. 33% and 67% of fixed pay respectively). The increase in the cap to 200% would enable us to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and maintain greater flexibility on total pay whilst retaining a larger quantum of variable pay that can be subject to malus. 386 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Remuneration policy - non-executive Directors Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees In accordance with our Articles of Association, Directors are entitled to receive fees for their services as Directors as determined from time to time by HSBC Holdings plc in general meeting. Non-executive Directors, who are not employees, receive such fees but are not entitled to receive a base salary, fixed pay allowance, benefits, pension or any variable pay. The executive Group Chairman and other executive Directors are not eligible to receive fees for their services as Directors. The fee levels payable reflect the time commitment and responsibilities required of a non-executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc. Fees are determined by benchmark against other UK companies and banks in the FTSE 30, and with reference to the fees paid by other non-UK international banks. The Board will review the amount of each component of the fees periodically to assess whether, individually and in aggregate, they remain competitive and appropriate in light of changes in roles, responsibilities, and/or time commitment of the non-executive Directors and to ensure that individuals of the appropriate calibre are able to be retained or appointed. The Board (excluding the non-executive Directors) has discretion to approve changes to the fees. The Board may also introduce any new component of fee for non-executive Directors subject to the principles, parameters and other requirements set out in this remuneration policy. In addition to fees payable by HSBC Holdings plc, certain of the non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services as directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc. Such additional remuneration is determined by the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary and the relevant subsidiary is entitled to make or continue to make such payments to the relevant non-executive Director as the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary, in its discretion, may determine. It is common practice for non-executive Directors to be reimbursed expenses incurred in performing their role and any related tax. Component Approach to the determination of each component of fees Base fee The current base fee for a non-executive Director is £95,000 per annum. The base fee may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the ‘Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees’, provided that the aggregate of any increases in base fee effected over the duration of this remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the current fee level. Fee for the senior independent non-executive Director The current fee for the senior independent non-executive Director is £45,000 per annum. The additional fee may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the ‘Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees’, provided that the aggregate of any increases in additional fee effected over the duration of this remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the current fee level. Committee fees The current fees for non-executive Directors serving on Board committees are as follows: • Group Audit, Group Risk, Group Remuneration, Financial System Vulnerabilities, Conduct & Values Committees: - Chairman: £50,000 per annum; Member: £30,000 per annum • Nomination Committee: - Chairman: £40,000 per annum; Member: £25,000 per annum The committee fees may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the ‘Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees’, provided that the aggregate of any increases in committee fees effected over the duration of this remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the respective current fee levels. If a new Board committee is established or there is a substantial change in the nature or responsibility of an existing Board committee, the fees for such a committee will be determined in line with the ‘Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees’, provided that the committee fees shall not exceed the then fee levels of the Group Audit Committee. Material factors taken into account when setting pay policy The Committee takes into account a variety of factors when determining the remuneration policy for Directors. Internal factors Funding Both the annual incentive and GPSP awards are funded from a single annual variable pay pool from which individual awards are considered. Funding of the Group’s annual variable pay pool is determined in the context of Group profitability, capital strength, and shareholder returns. Details on the calculation of this year’s variable pay pool can be found on page 393. The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share plans comply with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines. Prior to 2012, all equity-settled awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares vesting under the HSBC Share Plans were satisfied by the transfer of existing shares held under a trust. To create additional core tier 1 capital and retain funds within HSBC, vestings of Restricted Share awards are now satisfied by a mixture of existing shares from the trust and newly issued shares. Pay and employment conditions in the Group HSBC considers pay across the Group when determining remuneration levels for its executive Directors. In considering individual awards, a comparison of the pay and employment conditions of 387 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) our employees and senior executives is considered by the Committee. The Committee invites the Head of Group Performance and Reward to present proposals for remuneration for the wider employee population and on any other changes in remuneration policy within the company. The Head of Group Performance and Reward also consults the Committee on the extent to which the different elements of remuneration should be cascaded to other employees. Feedback from employee engagement surveys and HSBC Exchange meetings are taken into account in determining the Group’s remuneration policy. External factors Regulation There is still a wide divergence in local regulations governing remuneration structures globally. This presents significant challenges to HSBC which operates worldwide. In order to deliver long-term sustainable performance, it is important that we have market-competitive remuneration and which is broadly equivalent across geographic boundaries in order to attract, motivate and retain talented and committed employees around the world. We aim to ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned with regulatory practices and the interests of shareholders. HSBC is fully compliant with the Financial Stability Board (‘FSB’), FCA, PRA and Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) guidance and rules on remuneration which apply at the date of this report. Comparator group The Committee considers market data for executive Directors’ remuneration packages from a defined remuneration comparator group. This group consists of nine global financial services companies, namely Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Standard Chartered and UBS. These companies were selected on the basis of their broadly similar business coverage, size and international scope, and are subject to annual review for continuing relevance. The Committee can also review other companies where relevant in determining the remuneration policy. Shareholder views The Chairman of the Committee, the Head of Group Performance and Reward and the Group Company Secretary met with a representative number of key institutional shareholders in October and November 2013. We consider these types of meetings vital to gather views on our current and developing remuneration practices to ensure that our reward strategy continues to be aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders. These shareholders were consulted on the proposed changes to our remuneration policy to be operated from 2014 as a result of the introduction of the cap on variable pay awards under CRD IV. In these meetings we discussed the challenges this cap on variable pay presents to HSBC in retaining talent. We presented and discussed our proposal to increase the fixed pay of affected individuals through the payment of a fixed pay allowance. Overall, the shareholders we met appreciated the importance of retaining talent and acknowledged the competitive disadvantage the variable pay cap in CRD IV has on HSBC relative to a number of our international peers and domestic competitors. Overall, the shareholders were supportive of our need to address the imbalance and our approach to doing so through the use of a fixed pay allowance. In response to feedback received from shareholders, the increase to the fixed pay of all executive Directors, General Managing Directors and Group General Managers will be delivered in shares which will be subject to a retention period to ensure a strong alignment with the long-term interests of our shareholders. Other employees will receive the fixed pay allowance in cash when it is below a specified threshold. The target and maximum total compensation for the executive Directors has been reduced given the increase in fixed pay. Adjustments, malus and clawback In order solely to reward genuine performance, individual awards are made on the basis of a risk-adjusted view of both financial and non-financial performance. In light of this, the Committee has discretion to reduce an employee’s current year variable pay to reflect detrimental conduct or involvement in Group-wide notable events. Further, the Committee can, in appropriate circumstances, reduce or cancel all or part of any unvested awards under the applicable malus provision. Appropriate circumstances include (but are not limited to) conduct detrimental to the business; past performance being materially worse than originally understood; restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; or improper or inadequate risk management. The Committee can also suspend the vesting of unvested deferred awards granted in prior years where the awards are scheduled to vest before the outcome of a review of a Group-wide notable event is known. 388 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Since 2013, following advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, the Committee’s legal adviser on the malus framework, the Committee has implemented a formal policy, with supporting procedures, which will be continuously updated. The Committee may also decide to introduce and operate clawback, in appropriate circumstances and subject to compliance with applicable local laws and regulations, in respect of incentive awards (whether paid in cash or shares) that have vested and been paid out. Risk Risk (including in particular, compliance) is a critical part of the assessment process in determining the performance of senior executives and risk-takers (defined as HSBC Code Staff, which includes executive Directors) and in ensuring that their individual remuneration has been appropriately assessed with regard to risk. The Global Risk function carries out annual reviews for HSBC Code Staff, which determine whether there are any instances of non-compliance with Risk procedures and expected behaviour. Instances of non-compliance are escalated to senior management and the Committee for consideration in variable pay decisions. Consideration is given to whether adjustments, malus and/or clawback should apply and in certain circumstances, whether employment should be continued. Group-wide thematic reviews of risk are also carried out to determine if there are any transgressions which could affect the amount of current year variable pay or any instances where malus of previously awarded variable pay is required. Remuneration scenarios As a result of rebalancing fixed and variable remuneration to meet the requirements of CRD IV, total remuneration for target and maximum performance has been reduced for those executive Directors currently eligible for annual incentive and GPSP awards in order to offset any benefit arising from increases in fixed pay. As noted above and subject to approval of the remuneration policy, the Group Chairman will be eligible for a GPSP award from 2014. The following charts show how the total value of remuneration and its composition would vary under three performance scenarios for executive Directors. The ‘current’ scenario models the 2013 policy for executive Directors and the ‘policy’ scenario models the policy, which will be effective from the date of the Annual General Meeting, subject to shareholders’ approval. Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Marc Moses was promoted to executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014. Douglas Flint Douglas Flint is not eligible for annual incentive awards but is eligible for GPSP awards. 389 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 1 Fixed pay includes base salary, fixed pay allowance and pension allowance for the year. Benefits value is based on the value of all benefits received in 2013. For executive Directors other than Stuart Gulliver, the value of the benefits have been shown together with fixed pay in the above charts given their relatively small impact. 2 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy on the basis that shareholders approve the increase in the CRD IV cap on variable pay awards as a percentage of fixed pay to 200%. Includes deferred portion of award. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. Minimum assumes no annual incentive award. 3 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy on the basis that shareholders approve the increase in the CRD IV cap on variable pay awards as a percentage of fixed pay to 200%. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. The GPSP scorecard has not been designed with a numeric targeted or expected value of performance. Minimum assumes no GPSP award. 4 The maximum award level of the GPSP for Douglas Flint is 100% of fixed pay. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. Minimum assumes no GPSP award. Approach to recruitment remuneration On the recruitment or appointment of a new executive Director the Committee would adhere to the following principles: • remuneration packages should be in line with the policy as outlined on page 381; • remuneration packages must meet any applicable local regulatory requirements; and • where necessary, compensation may be provided in respect of forfeiture of awards from an existing employer (buyout awards). The maximum level of variable remuneration (excluding buyout awards) for any new hires will be 200% of fixed pay, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. Outlined in the following table are all components that would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package of a new executive Director and, for each, the approach that would be adopted. In the case of an internal appointment, any variable element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant. For non-executive Directors recruitment, remuneration will be in line with the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 387. Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director Component Approach taken to each component of remuneration Fixed pay Base salary and fixed pay allowance to reflect the individual’s role, experience and responsibility and be set in the context of market practice. Pension in line with policy as set out in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 381. Benefits Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances but in line with Group policy and ‘Remuneration policy’ table, including the global mobility policy, where applicable, and local regulations. Annual incentive New joiners will be eligible to be considered for an annual incentive award as set out in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 382. Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and must be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group Deferral Policy and performance requirements. GPSP May be considered for GPSP award in year as set out in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 383. Buyout May be offered if the individual holds any outstanding unvested shares which are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer. Group buyout policy is in line with the PRA Remuneration Code which states that both the terms and amount of any replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer. Delivered as HSBC restricted shares with vesting and retention periods to match the terms of forfeited awards with previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant documentation. Where the time to vesting is less than 60 days, deferred cash may be awarded for administrative purposes. Service contracts Executive Directors Our policy is to employ executive Directors on service agreements with 12 months’ notice period. Consistent with the best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise termination payments. Directors may be eligible for a payment in relation to statutory rights. 390 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Director Contract date (rolling) Notice period (Director & HSBC) Douglas Flint 14 February 2011 12 months Stuart Gulliver 10 February 2011 12 months Iain Mackay 4 February 2011 12 months Marc Moses was appointed as an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014. He will receive a new service agreement in line with the remuneration policy table for executive Directors after the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. Other than as set out in the ‘Directors’ remuneration policy’ section on page 381 and the ‘Policy on payments for loss of office’ table below, there are no further obligations which could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office. Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their election or re-election by shareholders at Annual General Meetings. Non-executive Directors have no service contracts, but are bound by their respective letters of appointment issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings plc. Other than as set out in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 387, there are no obligations in any and all of the non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment which could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office. Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment will expire as follows: • in 2014, Safra Catz, Laura Cha, John Coombe1, Rona Fairhead, James Hughes-Hallett1 and Sam Laidlaw; • in 2015, Marvin Cheung, Joachim Faber, John Lipsky, Rachel Lomax and Sir Simon Robertson; • in 2016, Renato Fassbind; and • in 2017, Kathleen Casey and Sir Jonathan Evans. 1 Not seeking re-election. Other directorships Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept appointments as non-executive directors of suitable companies which are not part of HSBC. Approval will not be given for an executive Director to accept a non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company. In addition, with effect from 1 July 2014, Directors will be subject to the following limits on the number of directorships that they may hold under CRD IV. CRD IV states that members of the management body, which includes both executive and non-executive Directors, may not hold more than: • one executive directorship with two non-executive directorships; or • four non-executive directorships. With the consent of the PRA one additional non-executive directorship may be held. When considering a request to accept a non-executive appointment, the Nomination Committee or Board will take into account, amongst other things, the expected time commitment of such appointment. The time commitment for Directors’ external appointments will be reviewed as part of the annual Board review. Any remuneration receivable in respect of an external appointment of an executive Director is normally paid to the Group, unless otherwise approved by the Nomination Committee or the Board. Policy on payments for loss of office Component of remuneration Approach taken Fixed pay and benefits In the event of redundancy, executive Directors employed on service agreements with HSBC Holdings would be entitled to a severance payment which is calculated using a multiplier of a number of weeks’ pay based on their full years’ service. The calculation of a week’s pay in the context of this severance payment is a pro rata proportion of the individual’s base salary, the last paid annual incentive and any ongoing special allowances. This would only be applicable for Douglas Flint, Iain Mackay and Marc Moses. Stuart Gulliver is not entitled to a severance payment under his service agreement. Executive Directors may also be entitled to payments in lieu of: • notice, which shall consist of base salary, pension entitlements and other contractual benefits1 (or an amount in lieu of); and/or • accrued but untaken holiday entitlement. 391 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Component of remuneration Approach taken Annual incentive Executive Directors are not eligible to be considered for or receive an annual incentive award if, on the date of grant, they are no longer employed by the Group or are under notice of termination of employment, other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee based on the individual executive Director’s circumstances. In relation to unvested annual incentives granted in prior years, these may be subject to good leaver rights at the discretion of the Committee (see below for further details on reasons that may qualify for good leaver status). If the executive Director is deemed a good leaver, the following apply: • unvested awards will continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to the share plan rules, malus and clawback provisions (see notes below); or • in the event of Death unvested awards will vest and will be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as practicable. If the executive Director is not deemed a good leaver, all unvested awards will lapse. GPSP Executive Directors are not eligible to be considered for or receive a GPSP award if, on the date of grant, they are no longer employed by the Group or are under notice of termination of employment, other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee based on the individual executive Director’s circumstances. In relation to deferred GPSP awards granted in prior years, these may be subject to good leaver rights at the discretion of the Committee (see below for further details on reasons that may qualify for good leaver status). If the executive Director is deemed a good leaver, the following apply: • vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director on cessation of employment; • unvested awards will continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to the share plan rules, and malus provisions and will be released on the normal vesting dates (see also notes below); or • in the event of death unvested awards will vest and, together with the vested shares, they will be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as practicable. If the executive Director is not deemed a good leaver, the following applies: • vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director in three equal tranches on each of the first, second and third anniversary of cessation of employment; and • all unvested awards will lapse. Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments (including professional and outplacement fees) to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any such payments being made pursuant to a statutory settlement agreement. 1 The other benefits as part of the payment in lieu of notice do not include the taxable value of accommodation, car and chauffeur provided in Hong Kong to Stuart Gulliver. Our policy is for notice periods to be set at 12 months for both the executive Director and HSBC. Subject to the approval of the Committee, an individual would be considered as a good leaver if they cease to be employed by reason of: • redundancy; • sale of business; • retirement from HSBC; • death; • injury, ill health and disability; or • any other reason as determined by the Committee. In respect of GPSP awards, for an individual to be considered as a good leaver by reason of retirement or ‘any other reason’, the Committee needs to be satisfied that the executive has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being employed by any competitor financial services firm. If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the contrary before vesting, the award will lapse. Under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 rules, the Committee has the discretion to determine that the award will vest immediately or on any other date. Annual report on remuneration Role, membership and advisers to the Committee Role Within the authority delegated by the Board, the Committee is responsible for approving the Group’s remuneration policy. The Committee also determines the remuneration of executive Directors, senior employees, employees in positions of significant influence and employees whose activities have or could have an impact on our risk profile and, in 392 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) doing so, takes into account the pay and conditions across the Group. No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. Membership The members of the Group Remuneration Committee during 2013 were Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman, appointed 24 May 2013), John Thornton (retired as a Director on 24 May 2013), John Coombe, Renato Fassbind (appointed 1 March 2013) and Sam Laidlaw. There were 12 meetings of the Committee during 2013. The table on page 360 gives details of Directors attendance at these meetings. Advisers In 2013, the Committee decided not to use external advisers, and in future will only seek external support on remuneration policy as and when necessary. During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided regular briefings to the Committee and the Committee received advice from the Group Managing Director, Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability, Ann Almeida, the Head of Group Performance and Reward, Alexander Lowen (and his predecessor, Tristram Roberts), the Group Chief Risk Officer, Marc Moses, and the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer, Robert Werner, all of whom provided advice as part of their executive role as employees of HSBC. The Committee also received advice and feedback from the Group Risk Committee on risk and compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration and the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. Group variable pay pool Variable pay pool determination The Committee considers many factors in determining the Group’s variable pay pool funding. Performance and Risk Appetite Statement The variable pay pool takes into account the performance of the Group which is considered within the context of our Risk Appetite Statement. This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is shaped by risk considerations and any Group-wide notable events. The Risk Appetite Statement describes and measures the amount and types of risk that HSBC is prepared to take in executing its strategy. It shapes the integrated approach to business, risk and capital management and supports achievement of the Group’s objectives. The Group Chief Risk Officer regularly updates the Committee on the Group’s performance against the Risk Appetite Statement. The Committee uses these updates when considering remuneration to ensure that return, risk and remuneration are aligned. Counter-cyclical funding methodology We use a counter-cyclical funding methodology which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling and the payout ratio reduces as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality risk. The floor recognises that competitive protection is typically required irrespective of performance levels. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is possible to limit reward as it is not necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance. Distribution of profits In addition, our funding methodology considers the relationship between capital, dividends and variable pay to ensure that the distribution of post-tax profits between these three elements is considered appropriate (see page 394 for the 2012, 2013 and target split). Commerciality and affordability Finally, the commercial requirement to remain competitive in the market and overall affordability are considered. Both the annual incentive and GPSP are funded from a single annual variable pay pool from which individual awards are considered. Funding of the Group’s annual variable pay pool is determined in the context of Group profitability, capital strength, and shareholder returns. This approach ensures that performance-related awards for individual global businesses, global functions, geographical regions and levels of staff are considered in a holistic fashion. This year’s variable pay pool was established by reference to the Group’s underlying profit before tax which excludes movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread and the gains and losses from disposals, and includes the costs of fines, penalties and other items of redress. For the purposes of considering the variable pay pool, the normal profits from disposed of businesses up to their actual disposal are included in the calculation. 393 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Taking into account all of the above, the Committee decided that in light of performance, the market environment, risk inputs, and other factors, the underlying pre-tax pre-variable pay profit payout ratio for 2013 would be 15%. Variable pay pool outcome Group Global Banking and Markets 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Total variable pay pool 3,920 3,689 1,327 1,266 % % % % Variable compensation incentive pool as a percentage of pre-tax profit (pre-variable pay)1 15 17 13 13 Percentage of variable pay pool deferred2 18 17 30 28 1 The 2013 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay calculation as described on the previous page. 2 The percentage of variable pay deferred for the Code Staff population is 64%. Relative importance of spend on pay The chart to the right provides a breakdown of total staff pay relative to the amount paid out in dividends. Pro forma post-tax profits allocation On a pro forma basis, attributable post-tax profits (excluding movements in the fair value of own debt and before pay distributions) were allocated in the proportions shown in the chart below. The Group’s target policy is for the vast majority of post-tax profit to be allocated to capital and to shareholders. 1 Dividends per ordinary share in respect of that year. For 2013, this includes the first, second and third interim dividends paid in 2013 of US$5.6bn (gross of scrip) and a fourth interim dividend of US$3.6bn. 2 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments and net of scrip issuance based on an assumption of scrip take up for the fourth quarter of 2013 of 20%. Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of 2013 were US$0.49, an increase of 9% compared with 2012. 3 Total variable pay pool net of tax and portion to be delivered by the award of HSBC shares. 394 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Single figure of remuneration Executive Directors Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Fixed pay Base salary 1,500 1,500 1,250 1,250 700 700 Pension 750 750 625 625 350 350 2,250 2,250 1,875 1,875 1,050 1,050 Benefits 48 64 591 642 33 36 Variable pay Annual incentive – – 1,833 780 1,074 539 GPSP – – 3,667 3,000 2,148 1,400 – – 5,500 3,780 3,222 1,939 Notional return on deferred cash 27 12 – – 7 3 Non-taxable benefits 102 98 67 65 53 50 Total single figure of remuneration 2,427 2,424 8,033 6,362 4,365 3,078 Addendum Annual incentive with performance conditions1 – – – 1,170 – 809 Total single figure of remuneration and annual incentive with performance conditions 2,427 2,424 8,033 7,532 4,365 3,887 1 60% of the 2012 annual incentive for Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report was deferred for five years. The vesting of these awards is subject to service condition and satisfactory completion of the DPA. The DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate. Notes to the single figure of remuneration Base salary • Salary paid in year for executive Directors. No fees were paid to executive Directors. Pension • Pension values generally consist of an allowance of 50% of annual basic salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements. • For 2012, Stuart Gulliver received employer contributions of 4% of base salary into a personal pension plan and a cash allowance of 46% of base salary from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012. From 1 April 2012, he received a cash allowance of 50% of base salary as per above. The employer contributions and the allowance for the whole of 2012 amounted to £625,000. • No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from the Group pension plans. Benefits • All taxable benefits (gross value before payment of tax). Benefits include provision of medical insurance, accommodation and car, club membership, and tax gross up for accommodation and car benefit. The 2012 numbers are restated to be in line with the new final regulations on benefits to be reported in the single figure table. • Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover. • The values of the significant benefits in the above table are as follows: Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Pool cars (UK and Hong Kong) – 1 – 1 79 73 – 1 – 1 Hong Kong bank-owned accommodation2 – – 229 237 – – Tax expense on pool cars and Hong Kong bank-owned accommodation – 1 – 1 266 310 – 1 – 1 Insurance benefit (non-taxable) 78 75 54 53 – 1 – 1 1 The pool car and tax on pool car for Douglas Flint and Iain Mackay is not included in the above table as it was not significant. The insurance benefit for Iain Mackay is not included in the above table as it was not significant. 2 Based on the current market rental value of the bank-owned property, as estimated by an external lease service provider, plus utility costs, rates, the taxable value of furniture and taking into account the business use of the property, the taxable value of the accommodation is considered to be 70% of the total of these amounts. 395 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Annual incentive • Annual incentive awarded (including deferred amounts) as a result of achievement of performance measures for the relevant financial year. 60% of the award is deferred. 50% of both the deferred and non-deferred component of the award is payable in cash and the remaining 50% in shares, subject to a six month retention period on vesting. • The deferred element of the 2013 award pays out over a period of three years, subject to service and malus conditions: 33% vests on the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on the third anniversary of grant. In 2012, there was a one-time change where the deferred element of the 2012 award was extended to pay out 100% cliff vesting subject to the satisfactory completion of the DPA as per footnote 1 of the ‘Addendum to the single figure of remuneration’. During the vesting period the Committee has the authority to cancel all or part of the unvested award. • For the 2013 award the performance measures and the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found on page 397. Outcomes for the 2012 award can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. • The deferred share awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents. Dividend equivalents on deferred share awards are delivered in the form of additional shares, in the same time and in the same manner and in such proportion as the original deferred award that vests. The expected value of these dividend equivalents are included in the value of deferred share awards. • The deferred cash awards also include a right to receive notional returns for the period between grant date and vesting date and determined by reference to the dividend yield on HSBC shares. A payment of notional return is made in the same proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each vesting date. GPSP • GPSP awards where final vesting is determined as a result of achievement of performance conditions over more than one financial year that end in the respective year. Figures shown reflect the face value of awards granted in 2014 and 2013 respectively. • Award levels are determined by considering performance against enduring performance measures set out in the long-term performance scorecard. There are no post-grant performance conditions. • The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to cancel all or part of the award. On vesting, the shares (net of tax) must be retained for the duration of the participant’s employment. • For the 2013 award the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found in the section titled ‘Awards under the GPSP’ on page 399. Outcomes for the 2012 award can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. • The GPSP awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents for the period between the grant and the vesting date. Dividend equivalents on the GPSP awards will be delivered when the GPSP awards vest. There was no vesting of GPSP awards in 2013. The expected value of these dividend equivalents are included in the value of GPSP awards included in the table above. Non-executive Directors Fees Benefits6 Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Safra Catz 95 95 14 11 109 106 Laura Cha1 195 548 47 42 242 590 Marvin Cheung2 197 166 45 59 242 225 John Coombe 205 205 14 17 219 222 Sir Jonathan Evans3 50 – – – 50 – Joachim Faber 137 104 21 15 158 119 Rona Fairhead 202 200 6 1 208 201 Renato Fassbind4 145 – 23 – 168 – James Hughes-Hallett 145 138 1 2 146 140 Sam Laidlaw 125 125 – – 125 125 John Lipsky 150 119 25 26 175 145 Rachel Lomax 155 155 8 5 163 160 Sir Simon Robertson 240 180 1 – 241 180 Total5 2,041 2,035 205 178 2,246 2,213 Total (US$000) 3,191 3,225 320 282 3,511 3,507 1 Includes fees as Director, Deputy Chairman and member of the nomination committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. 2 Includes fees as Director, Chairman of the risk committee and member of the audit committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited. 3 Appointed on 6 August 2013. 4 Appointed on 1 January 2013. 5 Excludes fees and benefits for Jim Comey and John Thornton who were not Directors at 31 December 2013. Jim Comey was appointed a Director on 4 March 2013 and resigned on 4 September 2013. Fees and benefits6 for 2013 were £63,000 and £10,000 respectively. John Thornton retired as a Director on 24 May 2013. Fees (including fees as Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc) for 2013 were £472,000 (£1,092,000 for 2012). Benefits6 for 2013 were £7,000 (£26,000 for 2012). 6 Benefits include travel-related expenses relating to the attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings registered office. Amounts disclosed are estimated and have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant. 396 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Variable pay outcomes Summary of pay outcomes Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Maximum multiple Pre- discretion per- formance outcome Multiple awarded Pre- discretion value Com- mittee discretion Post- discretion value Maximum multiple Post- discretion per- formance outcome Multiple awarded Value £000 £000 £000 £000 Salary 1.00 100% 1.00 1,250 n/a 1,250 1.00 100% 1.00 700 Annual incentive 3.00 60% 1.80 2,250 (417 ) 1,833 3.00 51% 1.53 1,074 GPSP 6.00 60% 3.60 4,500 (833 ) 3,667 5.10 60% 3.07 2,148 Total 8,000 (1,250 ) 6,750 3,922 Determining executive Directors’ annual performance Stuart Gulliver The annual incentive award made to Stuart Gulliver in respect of 2013 reflected the Committee’s assessment of the extent to which he had achieved the personal and corporate objectives set for him within his performance scorecard as agreed by the Board at the beginning of the year. This measurement took into account his performance against both the financial and non-financial measures which had been set to reflect the risk appetite and strategic priorities determined by the Board to be appropriate for 2013. In order for any award of annual incentive to be made under the above performance scorecard, the Committee had to satisfy itself that Stuart Gulliver had personally met and shown leadership in promoting HSBC Values. This overriding test assessed behaviour around the HSBC Values principles of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. A summary of the assessment against specific performance measures is provided in the following table. Stuart Gulliver – Annual assessment Measure Weighting Target Performance Assessment Outcome Pre-tax profit (US$bn)1 17.5% n/a 3 23.8 100% 17.5% Return on equity (%)1 10% 12-15 9.8 0% 0% Cost efficiency ratio (%)1 17.5% 48-52 58.5 0% 0% Dividend payout (%) 10% 40-60 57.1 100% 10% Capital strength (%)2 5% >10 13.6 100% 5% Financial 60% 32.5% Strategy execution 25% Judgement n/a 80% 20% Compliance and reputation 15% Judgement n/a 50% 7.5% Non-financial 40% 27.5% Promoting HSBC Values Over-riding test 100% Total 100% 60% Result of exercise of Committee’s discretion 49% 1 Pre-tax profit, return on equity and cost efficiency ratio excludes from the return the impact of fair value movements on own debt designated at fair value resulting from changes in credit spreads. 2 Capital strength is defined as core tier 1 capital. 3 Specific target not disclosed as deemed to be commercially sensitive. Rationale On HSBC values, independent feedback was taken from the Group Chairman, his executive colleagues and other employees in the organisation. Taking this into account as well as its own experience and observation, the Committee concluded that Stuart Gulliver had exhibited strong leadership and personal behaviour in this area and so met the required standard. 397 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) In aggregate, in assessing the calibration of Stuart Gulliver’s 2013 annual incentive against his theoretical maximum opportunity of three times base salary, an overall score of 60% (2012: 52%) of that maximum opportunity was judged to have been achieved. A summary of the assessment and rationale for the conclusions is set out below. Unless otherwise indicated, the figures in parentheses denote the opportunity within the scorecard. Financial (60% weighting – achieved 32.5%) An opportunity of 17.5% was available in respect of delivering pre-tax profit improvement against the Board approved target and this was judged to have been fully met with the Committee awarding 100% of the available opportunity (17.5% award). The Committee noted that the Group CEO led the restructuring and reshaping of the Group aggressively to meet the imperative of implementing Global Standards, notwithstanding that in the short to medium term this would hold back attainment of the financial metrics against which he was judged. Additionally, the Group CEO promoted a cautious risk appetite as the Group worked through legacy issues that have impacted the Group in terms of customer redress and impairment charges in prior years. Return on equity (weighting of 10%) did not meet the target return. The cost efficiency ratio (weighting of 17.5%) also fell outside the target range, in large part attributable to notable items, including customer redress provisions, restructuring costs and other regulatory provisions. Capital strength (weighting of 5%) and dividend payout (weighting of 10%) remain critically important reflections of financial performance as they encapsulate a number of key factors of importance to shareholders. In essence these elements demonstrate a combination of profit generation, control of capital usage, cash availability at the holding company and regulatory satisfaction with the preceding factors sufficient to support HSBC’s progressive dividend policy. These elements are therefore important indicators of the sustainability of shareholder reward. Reflecting an increased dividend per share, a dividend payout ratio within the target range in 2013 and a strengthened capital position with an improvement in the core tier 1 ratio, the Committee awarded full weighting of these elements of the scorecard. Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 27.5%) An opportunity of 25% in this area related to strategy execution and 80% was judged to have been achieved (20% awarded). Overall, there was significant progress in strategy execution, reflected through growing global business collaboration, maintained leadership in key products and markets, and progress towards HSBC’s digital strategy. There was also progress on effective streamlining and business simplification strategies, which resulted in further disposals and closures, and the run-off of legacy portfolios in the global businesses. The Group CEO led the drive for restructuring and de-risking, including progress towards global implementation of Global Standards and exiting non-core elements of existing businesses. The final opportunity under non-financial measures (15%) related to compliance and reputation. Minimising the long term impact of regulatory and compliance issues remains a top priority and significant progress was made during the year. Recognising the extensive work during the year to restructure the Global Compliance function, including an increase in headcount of 54%, and the launch of the ‘Driving a Values-led high performance culture’ programme, 50% was judged to have been achieved (7.5% awarded); a full award was not made to reflect the significant work still to be delivered. This performance assessment resulted in an overall score of 60%. Notwithstanding this, the Committee subsequently used their discretion to reduce overall variable pay by £1.25m (equivalent to 18.5% of the total annual incentive and GPSP). This adjustment was considered appropriate in the context of overall Group-wide year-over-year profitability and incentive pool funding, Group-wide risk and compliance, market remuneration benchmarks and the remuneration recommendations for the Group CEO’s direct reports. The exercise of discretion by the Committee discretion resulted in a final performance outcome for 2013 of 49%. Iain Mackay The same deliberations and assessments with regard to performance and adherence to HSBC Values were undertaken by the Committee with regard to the performance of Iain Mackay. A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table. 398 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Iain Mackay – Annual assessment Measure Weighting Target Performance Assessment Outcome Manage global functional costs and full-time equivalent (FTE) employee numbers 30% Various 1 n/a 92% 28% Financial 30% 28% Management information and business support 20% Judgement n/a Met Basel III compliance 15% Judgement n/a Met Regulation and compliance 15% Judgement n/a Met Control and governance environment 10% Judgement n/a Met People 10% Judgement n/a Met Non-financial 70% n/a 70% Promoting HSBC Values Overridingtest 100% Total 100% 98% Result of exercise of Committee discretion 51% 1 Specific targets relating to the global function are not disclosed as deemed to be commercially sensitive. The Committee considered that performance against the financial metric of managing global functional costs and the number of FTE employee numbers (30%) had been partially met, giving an outcome of 28%. The Committee considered that performance against the non-financial targets including management information and business support (20%), Basel III compliance (15%), regulation and compliance (15%), control and governance environment (10%) and people (10%) had been met, giving an outcome of 70%. This performance assessment resulted in an overall score of 98%. However, based on an assessment of overall total compensation, the Committee awarded a discretionary annual incentive equal to an assessment of 51%.1 1 This adjustment was considered appropriate in the context of overall year-over-year Group-wide profitability and incentive pool funding and market remuneration benchmarks. Awards under the GPSP Awards to be granted in 2014 in respect of 2013 were assessed against the 2013 long-term scorecard published in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and reproduced below. The performance assessment under the 2013 long-term scorecard took into account achievements under both financial and non-financial objectives, both of which were set within the context of the risk appetite and strategic direction agreed by the Board. Notwithstanding the detail or extent of performance delivery against the objectives, an individual’s eligibility for a GPSP award requires confirmation of adherence to HSBC Values which acts in effect as a gateway to GPSP participation. A summary of the assessment and rationale for the conclusions is set out below. Awards under the GPSP Measure Weighting Long-term target range Actual 2013 performance Assessment Outcome Return on equity (%)1 15% 12-15 9.8 0% 0% Cost efficiency ratio (%)1 15% 48-52 58.5 0% 0% Capital strength (%)1 15% >10 13.6 100% 15% Progressive dividend payout (%) 15% 40-60 57.1 100% 15% Financial 60% 30% Strategy execution 20% Judgement n/a 80% 16% Compliance and reputation 10% Judgement n/a 50% 5% Brand equity2 5% Top 3 rating and improved US$value n/a 100% 5% People 5% Judgement n/a 80% 4% Non-financial 40% 30% Total performance outcome 100% 60% 1 See footnotes in ‘Stuart Gulliver – Annual assessment’ table. 2 Based on results from The Brand Finance ® Banking 500 2014 survey. 399 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Rationale Financial (60% weighting – achieved 30%) The opportunity of 60% was equally split in 2013 between capital strength, progressive dividend payout, return on equity and cost efficiency ratio. While the annual assessment also looked at achievement of the same performance elements in 2013, consideration under the long-term plan looked at the sustainability of short-term performance and reflected on whether to recognise progress made towards stated targets where these had not been met in the current year. The Committee considered favourably the strengthened capital position shown both by the improvement in the year-end core tier 1 ratio and the increase in the estimated end-point position under CRD IV. Having reviewed these factors the Committee awarded the full opportunity (15%). The Committee noted favourably the projected capacity to maintain a progressive dividend policy which was underpinned by the Group’s strong capital position, its distributable reserves, its cash position and its planning assumptions around future performance. The Committee also reflected upon independent research which included forecasts of dividend paying capacity and discussed with management regulatory interactions around the Group’s capital position. Having considered these factors, it awarded the full opportunity (15%). Noting that the Group has not yet reached its target return on equity of 12-15%, the Committee deliberated whether to recognise in the GPSP the cumulative progress that has been made in restructuring and reshaping the Group and the achievement of sustainable cost savings ahead of target. The Committee further considered the on-going redeployment of capital from under-performing and exit portfolios to targeted areas of investment which will enhance future returns. There was also debate around the extent to which account should be taken at this stage of the more sustainable revenue streams that are projected to arise through enhanced controls around compliance and financial crime risk. The Committee concluded that while good progress had been made there was still a great deal to do to embed the improvements underway. The Committee also took into account that shareholders still faced continuing uncertainties from an incomplete regulatory reform agenda, from contingent legal risks from on-going matters of note and from continuing significant customer redress costs. As a consequence, the Committee decided not to make any award under this opportunity (15%). Similarly, under the cost efficiency ratio element of the scorecard the Committee judged that no award could be made under this opportunity (15%).This was despite strong delivery of further sustainable cost savings. The Committee noted that the ratio remained above the target range of 48-52%, and further noted that a notable element of the underperformance related to continuing legal and regulatory fines and penalties and customer redress costs, none of which it could view for the time being as non-recurring. Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 30%) With regard to the execution of strategic priorities laid down by the Board, the Committee reviewed delivery under the programmes for restructuring and de-risking the Group’s businesses. This included, inter alia, the implementation of Global Standards, plans to maintain product leadership and improve digital strategy and steps to enhance global business co-operation and integration. The Committee concluded that it would be an appropriate reflection of management achievement to award 80% of the available opportunity, namely 16%. With regard to compliance and reputation (10%), minimising the long-term impact of regulatory and compliance issues on the Group’s reputation remains a top priority and the Committee noted further progress made in 2013. The continuing work on restructuring the Global Compliance function, investment in greater compliance and financial crime resources and capabilities, the launch of the ‘Driving a Values-led high performance culture’ programme and continued strengthening of governance were all favourably assessed. Reflecting, however, that there was still much to deliver, the Committee concluded to make a 50% achievement against long-term goals, which resulted in a 5% award in the scorecard. Brand equity (5%) scored 100% of the available opportunity as independent research recorded that the value of the HSBC brand had increased. The Committee noted that HSBC had retained its status as one of the world’s strongest banking brands, ranking second in The Brand Finance® Banking 500 2014 survey. In relation to the people aspect of long-term strategy delivery, the Committee looked, inter alia, at progress made in talent development, succession planning and diversity. Recognising the continued progress, the Committee awarded 80% of the available opportunity of 5%, which was 4%. This performance assessment resulted in an overall score of 60%. 400 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) As per Stuart Gulliver’s annual assessment, during its 15 January 2014 meeting the Committee used their discretion to reduce the Group CEO’s overall variable pay by £1.25 million (equivalent to 18.5% of the total annual incentive and GPSP). The result of the Committee discretion was a final performance outcome for 2013 of 49% for the GPSP. Total pension entitlements No employees who served as executive Directors during the year have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension schemes or are entitled to additional benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no retirement age set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for employees is 65. Scheme interests awarded during the year The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded to Directors in 2013 (for performance in 2012) as disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. Scheme interests awarded during the year Type of interest awarded Basis on which award made Dates of award Face value awarded1 £000 Percentage receivable for minimum performance2 Number of shares awarded Share price on date of grant1 End of performance period Stuart Gulliver Deferred cash Annual incentive 2012 11 Mar 2013 585 0% n/a n/a 31 Dec 2012 Stuart Gulliver Restricted shares Annual incentive 2012 11 Mar 2013 585 0% 79,375 £7.37 31 Dec 2012 Stuart Gulliver Restricted shares GPSP 2012 11 Mar 2013 3,000 0% 407,055 £7.37 31 Dec 2012 Iain Mackay Deferred cash Annual incentive 2012 11 Mar 2013 404 0% n/a n/a 31 Dec 2012 Iain Mackay Restricted shares Annual incentive 2012 11 Mar 2013 404 0% 54,874 £7.37 31 Dec 2012 Iain Mackay Restricted shares GPSP 2012 11 Mar 2013 1,400 0% 189,959 £7.37 31 Dec 2012 GPSP awards made based on performance up to the financial year end preceding the grant date with no further performance conditions after grant. Vesting occurs five years after grant date and is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. Any shares (net of tax) which the director becomes entitled to on the vesting date are subject to a retention requirement. 1 Share price used is the closing mid-market price on the last working day preceding the date of grant. 2 Awards determined based on performance achieved during the period to 31 December 2012. The overall award level could have been 0% of the maximum opportunity if minimum performance was achieved for the period to 31 December 2012. After grant, awards are subject to service condition and malus provisions. Summary of performance HSBC TSR and FTSE100 index The following graph shows the TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index for the five-year period ended 31 December 2013. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. Source: Datastream CEO remuneration Historical CEO remuneration The table below summarises the CEO’s single figure remuneration over the past five years together with the outcomes of the respective annual incentive and long term incentive awards. 401 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Historical CEO remuneration CEO Single figure ofremuneration Annual incentive maximum2 Annual incentive paid2 Long term incentive maximum3 Long term incentive paid3 (£000) (% of salary) (% of maximum) (% of salary) (% of maximum) 20091 Michael Geoghegan 7,580 400% 93.5% 700% 25% 20101 Michael Geoghegan 7,932 400% 81.6% 700% 19% 2011 Stuart Gulliver 8,047 300% 57.5% 600% 50% 2012 Stuart Gulliver 7,521 300% 52.0% 600% 40% 2013 Stuart Gulliver 8,032 300% 49.0% 600% 49% 1 The GPSP was introduced in 2011. Prior to this, values shown relate to awards of Performance Shares under the HSBC Share Plan. Under this plan Performance Share awards vest three years after grant subject to performance conditions of total shareholder return, economic profit and earnings per share, and an over-riding ‘sustained improvement’ judgement by the committee. 2 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report which was deferred for five years. The vesting of these awards is subject to service condition and satisfactory completion of the DPA. The DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate. 3 Long term incentive awards are shown in the year where the performance period is deemed to be substantially completed. For performance share awards this is at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant (Performance Share awards shown in 2009 and 2010 therefore relate to awards granted in 2007 and 2008 respectively). For GPSP awards this is at the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant (GPSP awards shown in 2011 to 2013 therefore relate to awards granted in 2012 to 2014). Comparison of Group CEO and all-employee pay The following table gives a comparison of the changes in Group CEO pay to employees between 2012 and 2013: Percentage change in remuneration Base salary Benefits2 Annual incentive3 Group CEO 0.0% (7.9% ) (6.0% ) Employee group1 2.1% 1.4% 6.4% 1 Employee group consists of all employees globally, based on costs included in wages and salaries disclosed in financial reports and staff numbers (full-time equivalents averaged over the financial year). 2 Employee group consists of UK employees only (full-time equivalents averaged over the financial year) as it was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group CEO given varying local requirements. 3 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes the 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report which was deferred for five years. The vesting of these awards is subject to service condition and satisfactory completion of the DPA. The DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate. Employee group consists of all employees globally, based on annual incentive pool less GPSP as disclosed in financial reports and staff numbers (full-time equivalents at the financial year end). Payments to past directors No payments were made to past Directors in 2013. Exit payments made in year No payments for loss of office were made in 2013 to any person serving as a Director in the year or any previous years. Directors’ interests in shares Guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with our shareholders, we have shareholding guidelines, expressed as a number of shares, for executive Directors and Group Managing Directors. The Committee considers that material share ownership by senior executives helps align their interests with that of shareholders. Following a review, the Committee has revised these guidelines as follows: • Increased the number of shares executive Directors and Group Managing Directors are expected to hold. • Unvested shares will no longer count towards the minimum shareholding under the guidelines. The new guidelines will come into effect in 2014 and individuals will be expected to build up the following levels of shareholdings: Number of shares Current guidelines New guidelines Group Chairman 400,000 400,000 Group CEO 600,000 750,000 Other executive Directors 200,000 450,000 Group Managing Directors 125,000 250,000 402 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Individuals will be given five years from 2014 or (if later) their appointment as executive Director or Group Managing Director to build up the recommended levels of shareholding. HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees. As part of this all employees are required to certify each year that they have not entered into any personal hedging strategies. The Committee monitors compliance with the share ownership guidelines annually. The Committee has full discretion in determining any penalties in cases of non-compliance, which could include a reduction of future awards of GPSP and/or an increase in the proportion of the annual variable pay that is deferred into shares. The shareholdings of all persons who were Directors in 2013 (including the shareholdings of their connected persons) at 31 December 2013 or at the time of their retirement are set out below. In 2014, the Committee introduced the shareholding guidelines for non-executive Directors, to help align the long-term interests of shareholders and non-executive Directors. Non-executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding of 15,000 HSBC Holdings plc shares within five years from 2014 or, if later, their appointment as a non-executive Director. Shares At 31 December 2013 or date of retirement Scheme interests Current Shares awarded subject to deferral shareholdingrequirement(number) Total share interests1 (number) Share options2 withoutperformance conditions3 withperformanceconditions Executive Directors Douglas Flint 400,000 442,087 2,016 49,423 – Stuart Gulliver 600,000 4,885,384 – 2,071,952 82,955 Iain Mackay 200,000 678,831 – 556,352 57,349 Group Managing Directors4 125,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a Non-executive Directors5 John Coombe n/a 23,397 n/a n/a n/a Sir Jonathan Evans n/a 1,495 n/a n/a n/a Joachim Faber n/a 10,605 n/a n/a n/a Rona Fairhead n/a 21,660 n/a n/a n/a Sam Laidlaw n/a 35,122 n/a n/a n/a John Lipsky n/a 15,000 n/a n/a n/a Sir Simon Robertson n/a 9,912 n/a n/a n/a 1 For the purposes of our current shareholding guidelines, unvested awards of restricted shares and GPSP awards are included. Under the new guidelines coming into effect in 2014, unvested shares will no longer count towards the expected minimum shareholdings. 2 All share options are unexercised. 3 Includes GPSP awards which are made following an assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December immediately before the grant date but are subject to a five-year vesting period. 4 All of the Group Managing Directors exceed the expected holdings. 5 Those who were non-executive Directors in 2013 but are not in the list above did not hold any shares as at 31 December 2013, or at the time of their retirement, directly or through any connected persons. Share options Exercisable Date of award Exercise price from1 until At 1 Jan 2013 Exercisedin year At 31 Dec 2013 Douglas Flint 25 Apr 2007 6.1760 1 Aug 2012 31 Jan 2013 2,650 – – 2 Douglas Flint 24 Apr 2012 4.4621 1 Aug 2015 31 Jan 2016 2,016 – 2,016 The HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are all-employee share plans under which eligible employees may be granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Employees may make contributions of up to £250 (or equivalent) each month over a period of one, three or five years which may be used on the first, third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the relevant savings contract, at the employee’s election, to exercise the options. The plans help align the interests of employees with the creation of shareholder value. The options were awarded for nil consideration and are exercisable at a 20% discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date. There are no performance criteria conditional upon which the outstanding options are exercisable and there have been no variations to the terms and conditions since the awards were made. The market value per ordinary share at 31 December 2013 was £6.62. The highest and lowest market values per ordinary share 403 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) during the year were £7.70 and £6.47. Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised as unlisted physically settled equity derivatives. 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. retirement. 2 Option lapsed on 31 January 2013 following the end of the exercise period. Shareholder context The table below shows the advisory vote to approve the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting of HSBC Holdings plc held on 24 May 2013. Number of votes cast For Against Withheld Advisory vote on 2012 Remuneration Report 9,331,516,789 8,304,766,707 1,026,750,082 399,765,100 (89.0% ) (11.0% ) Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The table below summarises how each element of pay will be implemented in 2014. Purpose and link to strategy Operation and planned changes to policy Fixed pay Base salary Base salary levels for Douglas Flint, Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay remain unchanged from their 2013 levels. Following his appointment to executive Director, the base salary for Marc Moses has been set in line with his new role. Base salary levels to apply in 2014 are: • Douglas Flint: £1,500,000 • Stuart Gulliver: £1,250,000 • Iain Mackay: £700,000 • Marc Moses: £700,000 Fixed pay allowance1 Executive Directors will receive a fixed pay allowance as follows2: • Douglas Flint: Nil • Stuart Gulliver: £1,700,000 • Iain Mackay: £950,000 • Marc Moses: £950,000 Fixed pay allowances will be paid in shares. The first delivery of shares as part of the fixed pay allowance for 2014, including those in respect of the first and second quarter, will be in the third quarter of 2014. Thereafter, shares will be awarded and delivered on a quarterly basis in arrears. The shares will vest immediately but the shares (net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security) will be subject to a retention period. 20% of these shares will be released in March 2015 and the remaining 80% will be released on or after December 2019. Pension No changes proposed. Directors will continue to receive a cash allowance of 50% of salary in lieu of pension entitlements. Pension received by Marc Moses will be bought in line with this policy. Benefits Benefits No changes are proposed to the benefits package for 2014. Variable pay Annual incentive1 Changes are proposed to the maximum annual incentive opportunity for the 2014 performance year, as part of the rebalancing of fixed pay and variable pay to comply with CRD IV: • Maximum variable pay potential is set at 200% of fixed pay. The maximum annual incentive award will be 1/3 of this amount, resulting in a maximum annual incentive of 67% of fixed pay2. • The scorecards to apply are as outlined in the below table. • The operation is unchanged and will be as outlined in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 382. GPSP Changes are proposed to the maximum opportunity for the 2014 performance year, as part of rebalancing of fixed pay and variable pay to comply with CRD IV: • Maximum variable pay potential is set at 200% of fixed pay. The maximum GPSP award will be 2/3 of this amount, resulting in a maximum GPSP of 133% of fixed pay2. • The scorecards to apply are as outlined in the below table. • The Group Chairman would be eligible for a GPSP award. • The operation is unchanged and will be as outlined in the ‘Remuneration policy’ table on page 383. 1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, Douglas Flint, who is not eligible for a fixed pay allowance or annual incentive awards. 404 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 2 Award levels for fixed pay allowances and maximum variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014. If approval is not obtained the fixed pay allowance for 2014 will increase to £3,488,000 for Stuart Gulliver, £1,950,000 for Iain Mackay, and £1,950,000 for Marc Moses. The maximum variable pay award level will be revised to 100% of fixed pay and the annual incentive and GPSP awards will accordingly be reduced to 1/3 and 2/3 of this amount (i.e. 33% and 67% of fixed pay, respectively). The requested increase in the cap to 200% would give us the ability to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay. Annual bonus scorecards The measures and weightings of the performance measures to apply to the 2014 annual incentive for Stuart Gulliver, Iain Mackay and Marc Moses are given below. Douglas Flint is not included as he will not be eligible for an annual incentive award in the 2014 performance year. The Committee is of the opinion that the performance targets for the annual incentive are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the company to disclose them before the start of the financial year. Subject to commercial sensitivity, the targets will be disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in that year’s remuneration report. 2014 annual incentive scorecards Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Measures Weighting Functional measures linked to Weighting Functional measures linked to Weighting Underlying pre-tax profit 17.5% Grow both business and dividends 15% Grow both business and dividends 20% Return on equity 10% Risk and compliance including Global Standards 50% Risk and compliance including Global Standards 50% Cost efficiency 17.5% Streamline processes and procedures 25% Streamline processes and procedures 20% Capital 5% Dividends 10% Financial 60% Strategic priorities 90% Strategic priorities 90% Strategy execution 20% People 10% People 10% Risk and compliance 20% Non-financial 40% People 10% People 10% Promoting HSBC Values Over-riding test Promoting HSBC Values Over-riding test Promoting HSBC Values Over-riding test Total 100% Total 100% Total 100% 2014 Group GPSP scorecard Measure Long-term target range Weighting Return on equity 12% – 15% 15% Cost efficiency ratio Mid 50s, positive jaws1 15% Capital strength >10% 15% Progressive dividend payout 40% – 60% 15% Financial 60% Strategy execution Judgement 20% Risk and compliance Judgement 15% People Judgement 5% Non-financial 40% Total 100% 1 Revenue growth less operating expense growth. GPSP awards for the Group Chairman will be determined by reference to non-financial and qualitative measures including: monitoring and improving HSBC’s reputation with all stakeholders, and providing leadership and tone to drive improvement in the Group’s compliance, conduct and behaviour with a view to becoming over time one of the most reliably compliant financial institutions. 405 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report Additional disclosures This appendix provides disclosures required under the Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong Listing Rules, Project Merlin agreement, and the US Securities and Exchange Commission Form 20-F disclosures. Employee Compensation and Benefits Emoluments of Directors Set out below are details of emoluments paid to executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013. Douglas Flint£000 Stuart Gulliver£000 Iain Mackay£000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 2,400 2,533 1,136 Pension contributions – – – Performance-related pay paid or receivable – 5,500 3,222 Inducements to join paid or receivable – – – Compensation for loss of office – – – Total 2,400 8,033 4,358 Total (US$000) 3,752 12,558 6,813 Total 2012 (US$000) 3,771 11,775 6,071 The aggregate amount of Directors emoluments (including both executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the year ended 2013 was US$27,149,418, including no pension payments. No payments were made in respect of loss of office. Emoluments of senior management Set out below are details of emoluments paid to senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) for the year ended 31 December 2013 or for the period of appointment as a Director or Group Managing Director. Emoluments of senior management Senior management £000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 17,369 Pension contributions 458 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 42,318 Inducements to join paid or receivable - Compensation for loss of office - Total 60,145 Total (US$000) 94,024 The aggregate emoluments of senior management for the year ended 31 December 2013 was US$94,023,875. The emoluments of senior management were within the following bands: Number senior management £0 –£1,000,000 1 £1,000,001 – £2,000,000 3 £2,000,001 – £3,000,000 5 £3,000,001 – £4,000,000 5 £4,000,001 – £5,000,000 1 £5,000,001 – £6,000,000 1 £7,000,001 – £8,000,000 1 £8,000,001 – £9,000,000 1 The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for executive Directors and senior management for the year ended 31 December 2013 was US$715,710. 406 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Emoluments of five highest paid employees Set out below are details of remuneration paid to the five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in HSBC (including two executive Directors and two Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings), for the year ended 31 December 2013. Emoluments of the five highest paid employees 5 highest paid employees £000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 6,282 Pension contributions 141 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 22,531 Inducements to join paid or receivable - Compensation for loss of office - Total 28,954 Total (US$000) 45,263 The emoluments of the five highest paid employees were within the following bands: Number of 5 highest paid employees £4,300,001 – £4,400,000 2 £5,000,001 – £5,100,000 1 £7,100,001 – £7,200,000 1 £8,000,001 – £8,100,000 1 Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives Set out below are details of the remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executives (including members of the GMB, but not Directors of HSBC Holdings): Employee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Fixed Cash based 650 641 650 650 798 700 650 650 Total fixed 650 641 650 650 798 700 650 650 Annual incentive1 Cash 641 353 215 344 296 287 292 288 Non-deferred shares2 641 353 215 344 296 287 292 288 Deferred cash3 961 529 322 515 444 431 439 433 Deferred shares3 961 529 322 515 444 431 439 433 Total annual incentive 3,204 1,764 1,074 1,718 1,480 1,436 1,462 1,442 GPSP Deferred shares 3,203 1,763 2,148 859 739 718 731 721 Total variable pay 6,407 3,527 3,222 2,577 2,219 2,154 2,193 2,163 Total remuneration 7,057 4,168 3,872 3,227 3,017 2,854 2,843 2,813 US$000 Total remuneration 11,030 6,514 6,052 5,045 4,716 4,464 4,444 4,398 1 Annual incentive in respect of performance year 2013. 2 Awards vested, subject to a six-month retention period. 3 Awards vest over a three year period, 33% vests on the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on third anniversary of grant. 407 Table of Contents These pages are intentionally left blank. 408 and 409 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiary undertakings (together ‘HSBC’) on pages 417 to 564 which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated income statements, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated statements of changes in equity, for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2013, including the disclosures marked ‘audited’ within each of the critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ section on pages 134 to 297, and the ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ section on pages 299 to 328. We have also audited HSBC’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on the framework for Directors’ internal control evaluation contained within Internal control: Revised guidance for directors on the Combined Code (Turnbull Guidance), and the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). HSBC’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying ‘Management’s Assessment of Internal Controls’. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of HSBC as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2013, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Also, in our opinion, HSBC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on the framework for Directors’ internal control evaluation contained within Internal control: Revised guidance for directors on the Combined Code (Turnbull Guidance), and the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). KPMG Audit Plc London, England 24 February 2014 410 Table of Contents These pages are intentionally left blank. 411 to 415 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements Financial Statements and Notes on the Financial Statements Page Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 417 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 418 Consolidated balance sheet 419 Consolidated statement of cash flows 420 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 421 HSBC Holdings balance sheet 424 HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 425 HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity 426 Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation 428 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 432 3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 450 4 Net earned insurance premiums 451 5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders 451 6 Operating profit 452 7 Employee compensation and benefits 453 8 Auditors’ remuneration 465 9 Tax 466 10 Dividends 471 11 Earnings per share 471 12 Segmental analysis 472 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis 477 14 Trading assets 481 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 482 16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 495 17 Financial assets designated at fair value 498 Page 18 Derivatives 479 19 Financial investments 504 20 Transfers of financial assets 506 21 Interests in associates and joint ventures 508 22 Goodwill and intangible assets 512 23 Property, plant and equipment 518 24 Investments in subsidiaries 519 25 Assets held for sale and other assets 521 26 Trading liabilities 522 27 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 523 28 Debt securities in issue 523 29 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities 524 30 Liabilities under insurance contracts 525 31 Provisions 526 32 Subordinated liabilities 528 33 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 532 34 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities 540 35 Foreign exchange exposures 542 36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets 542 37 Non-controlling interests 543 38 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 544 39 Notes on the statement of cash flows 546 40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 548 41 Lease commitments 549 42 Structured entities 550 43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 554 44 Related party transactions 562 45 Events after the balance sheet date 564 46 Non-statutory accounts 564 416 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Interest income 51,192 56,702 63,005 Interest expense (15,653 ) (19,030 ) (22,343 ) Net interest income 35,539 37,672 40,662 Fee income 19,973 20,149 21,497 Fee expense (3,539 ) (3,719 ) (4,337 ) Net fee income 16,434 16,430 17,160 Trading income excluding net interest income 6,643 4,408 3,283 Net interest income on trading activities 2,047 2,683 3,223 Net trading income 8,690 7,091 6,506 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives (1,228 ) (4,327 ) 4,161 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 1,996 2,101 (722 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 3 768 (2,226 ) 3,439 Gains less losses from financial investments 2,012 1,189 907 Dividend income 322 221 149 Net earned insurance premiums 4 11,940 13,044 12,872 Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd (‘Ping An’) 25 – 7,024 – Other operating income 2,632 2,100 1,766 Total operating income 78,337 82,545 83,461 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders 5 (13,692 ) (14,215 ) (11,181 ) Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 64,645 68,330 72,280 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 6 (5,849 ) (8,311 ) (12,127 ) Net operating income 58,796 60,019 60,153 Employee compensation and benefits 7 (19,196 ) (20,491 ) (21,166 ) General and administrative expenses (17,065 ) (19,983 ) (17,459 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 23 (1,364 ) (1,484 ) (1,570 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 22 (931 ) (969 ) (1,350 ) Total operating expenses (38,556 ) (42,927 ) (41,545 ) Operating profit 6 20,240 17,092 18,608 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 21 2,325 3,557 3,264 Profit before tax 22,565 20,649 21,872 Tax expense 9 (4,765 ) (5,315 ) (3,928 ) Profit for the year 17,800 15,334 17,944 Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 16,204 14,027 16,797 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,596 1,307 1,147 US$ US$ US$ Basic earnings per ordinary share 11 0.84 0.74 0.92 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 11 0.84 0.74 0.91 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 427. 417 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Profit for the year 17,800 15,334 17,944 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Available-for-sale investments2 (1,718 ) 5,070 674 – fair value gains/(losses) (1,787 ) 6,396 1,279 – fair value gains transferred to the income statement on disposal (1,277 ) (1,872 ) (820 ) – amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of impairment losses 286 1,002 583 – income taxes 1,060 (456 ) (368 ) Cash flow hedges (128 ) 109 187 – fair value gains/(losses) 776 552 (581 ) – fair value (gains)/losses transferred to the income statement (894 ) (423 ) 788 – income taxes (10 ) (20 ) (20 ) Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures (71 ) 533 (710 ) – share for the year (35 ) 311 (710 ) – reclassified to income statement on disposal (36 ) 222 – Exchange differences (1,444 ) 1,017 (2,865 ) – foreign exchange gains reclassified to income statement on disposal of a foreign operation (290 ) (1,128 ) – – other exchange differences (1,154 ) 2,145 (2,865 ) Income tax attributable to exchange differences 72 – 165 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability (458 ) (195 ) 1,009 – before income taxes (601 ) (391 ) 1,267 – income taxes 143 196 (258 ) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (3,747 ) 6,534 (1,540 ) Total comprehensive income for the year 14,053 21,868 16,404 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: – shareholders of the parent company 12,644 20,455 15,366 – non-controlling interests 1,409 1,413 1,038 14,053 21,868 16,404 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 427. 418 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2013 Notes 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 166,599 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,021 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 25,220 22,743 Trading assets 14 303,192 408,811 Financial assets designated at fair value 17 38,430 33,582 Derivatives 18 282,265 357,450 Loans and advances to banks 211,521 152,546 Loans and advances to customers 1,080,304 997,623 Financial investments 19 425,925 421,101 Assets held for sale 25 4,050 19,269 Other assets 25 50,939 54,716 Current tax assets 985 515 Prepayments and accrued income 11,006 9,502 Interests in associates and joint ventures 21 16,640 17,834 Goodwill and intangible assets 22 29,918 29,853 Property, plant and equipment 23 10,847 10,588 Deferred tax assets 9 7,456 7,570 Total assets 2,671,318 2,692,538 Liabilities and equity Liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 25,220 22,742 Deposits by banks 129,212 107,429 Customer accounts 1,482,812 1,340,014 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 6,910 7,138 Trading liabilities 26 207,025 304,563 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 27 89,084 87,720 Derivatives 18 274,284 358,886 Debt securities in issue 28 104,080 119,461 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 29 2,804 5,018 Other liabilities 29 30,421 33,862 Current tax liabilities 607 1,452 Liabilities under insurance contracts 30 74,181 68,195 Accruals and deferred income 16,185 13,184 Provisions 31 5,217 5,252 Deferred tax liabilities 9 910 1,109 Retirement benefit liabilities 7 2,931 3,905 Subordinated liabilities 32 28,976 29,479 Total liabilities 2,480,859 2,509,409 Equity Called up share capital 38 9,415 9,238 Share premium account 11,135 10,084 Other equity instruments 5,851 5,851 Other reserves 26,742 29,722 Retained earnings 128,728 120,347 Total shareholders’ equity 181,871 175,242 Non-controlling interests 37 8,588 7,887 Total equity 190,459 183,129 Total equity and liabilities 2,671,318 2,692,538 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 427. D J Flint, Group Chairman 419 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 22,565 20,649 21,872 Adjustments for: – net gain from investing activities (1,458 ) (2,094 ) (1,196 ) – share of profits in associates and joint ventures (2,325 ) (3,557 ) (3,264 ) – gain on disposal of associates, joint ventures, subsidiaries and businesses (1,173 ) (7,024 ) – – other non-cash items included in profit before tax 39 11,995 19,778 19,878 – change in operating assets 39 (148,899 ) (116,521 ) (7,412 ) – change in operating liabilities 39 164,757 89,070 44,012 – elimination of exchange differences3 4,479 (3,626 ) 10,840 – dividends received from associates 694 489 304 – contributions paid to defined benefit plans (962 ) (733 ) (1,177 ) – tax paid (4,696 ) (5,587 ) (4,095 ) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 44,977 (9,156 ) 79,762 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of financial investments (363,979 ) (342,974 ) (319,008 ) Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 342,539 329,926 311,702 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,952 ) (1,318 ) (1,505 ) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 441 241 300 Proceeds from the sale of loan portfolios 6,518 – – Net purchase of intangible assets (834 ) (1,008 ) (1,571 ) Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US cards business – 20,905 – Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of other subsidiaries and businesses 2,918 (863 ) 216 Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of associates (26 ) (1,804 ) (90 ) Proceeds from disposal of Ping An 7,413 1,954 – Proceeds from disposal of other associates and joint ventures 377 594 25 Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (6,585 ) 5,653 (9,931 ) Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 297 594 96 Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and investment purposes (32 ) (25 ) (225 ) Net sales/(purchases) of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards – – (136 ) Subordinated loan capital issued 1,989 37 7 Subordinated loan capital repaid (1,662 ) (1,754 ) (3,777 ) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from change in stake in subsidiaries – (14 ) 104 Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company (6,414 ) (5,925 ) (5,014 ) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (586 ) (572 ) (568 ) Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments (573 ) (573 ) (573 ) Net cash used in financing activities (6,981 ) (8,232 ) (10,086 ) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 31,411 (11,735 ) 59,745 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 315,308 325,449 274,076 Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents (438 ) 1,594 (8,372 ) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 39 346,281 315,308 325,449 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 427. 420 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 Other reserves Called up share capital US$m Share premium4US$m Other equity instru- mentsUS$m Retained earnings5,6US$m Available- for-sale fair value reserveUS$m Cash flow hedging reserve7US$m Foreign exchange reserveUS$m Merger reserve5,8US$m Total share- holders’ equityUS$m Non- controlling interestsUS$m Total equityUS$m At 1 January 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649 13 752 27,308 175,242 7,887 183,129 Profit for the year – – – 16,204 – – – – 16,204 1,596 17,800 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – (561 ) (1,577 ) (128 ) (1,294 ) – (3,560 ) (187 ) (3,747 ) Available-for-sale investments – – – – (1,577 ) – – – (1,577 ) (141 ) (1,718 ) Cash flow hedges – – – – – (128 ) – – (128 ) – (128 ) Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability – – – (490 ) – – – – (490 ) 32 (458 ) Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures – – – (71 ) – – – – (71 ) – (71 ) Exchange differences – – – – – – (1,294 ) – (1,294 ) (78 ) (1,372 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 15,643 (1,577 ) (128 ) (1,294 ) – 12,644 1,409 14,053 Shares issued under employee remuneration and share plans 60 1,168 – (931 ) – – – – 297 – 297 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 117 (117 ) – 2,523 – – – – 2,523 – 2,523 Dividends to shareholders9 – – – (9,510 ) – – – – (9,510 ) (718 ) (10,228 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 42 – – – – 42 – 42 Own shares adjustment – – – (36 ) – – – – (36 ) – (36 ) Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 630 – – – – 630 – 630 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 2 – – – – 2 – 2 Other movements – – – 18 25 (6 ) – – 37 19 56 Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (24 ) (24 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – – – – – – – 15 15 At 31 December 9,415 11,135 5,851 128,728 97 (121 ) (542 ) 27,308 181,871 8,588 190,459 421 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 (continued) 2012 Other reserves Called up share capital US$m Share premium4 US$m Other equity instru- ments US$m Retained earnings5,6 US$m Available- for-sale fair value reserve US$m Cash flow hedging reserve7 US$m Foreign exchange reserve US$m Merger reserve5,8 US$m Total share- holders’ equity US$m Non- controlling interests US$m Total equity US$m At 1 January 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361 ) (95 ) (237 ) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093 Profit for the year – – – 14,027 – – – – 14,027 1,307 15,334 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – 321 5,010 108 989 – 6,428 106 6,534 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 5,010 – – – 5,010 60 5,070 Cash flow hedges – – – – – 108 – – 108 1 109 Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability – – – (212 ) – – – – (212 ) 17 (195 ) Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 533 533 533 Exchange differences – – – – – – 989 – 989 28 1,017 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 14,348 5,010 108 989 – 20,455 1,413 21,868 Shares issued under employee remuneration and share plans 119 1,812 – (1,337 ) – – – – 594 – 594 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 185 (185 ) – 2,429 – – – – 2,429 – 2,429 Dividends to shareholders9 – – – (8,042 ) – – – – (8,042 ) (707 ) (8,749 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 32 – – – – 32 – 32 Own shares adjustment – – – 2 – – – – 2 – 2 Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 988 – – – – 988 – 988 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 42 – – – – 42 – 42 Other movements – – – (26 ) – – – – (26 ) (20 ) (46 ) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (108 ) (108 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – 43 – – – – 43 (59 ) (16 ) At 31 December 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649 13 752 27,308 175,242 7,887 183,129 422 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) 2011 Other reserves Called up share capital US$m Share premium4 US$m Other equity instru- ments US$m Retained earnings5,6 US$m Available- for-sale fair value reserve US$m Cash flow hedging reserve7 US$m Foreign exchange reserve US$m Merger reserve5,8 US$m Total share- holders’ equity US$m Non- controlling interests US$m Total equity US$m At 1 January 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077 ) (285 ) 2,468 27,308 147,667 7,248 154,915 Profit for the year – – – 16,797 – – – – 16,797 1,147 17,944 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – 368 716 190 (2,705 ) – (1,431 ) (109 ) (1,540 ) Available-for-sale investments – – – – 716 – – – 716 (42 ) 674 Cash flow hedges – – – – – 190 – – 190 (3 ) 187 Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability – – – 1,078 – – – – 1,078 (69 ) 1,009 Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures – – – (710 ) – – – – (710 ) – (710 ) Exchange differences – – – – – (2,705 ) – (2,705 ) 5 (2,700 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 17,165 716 190 (2,705 ) – 15,366 1,038 16,404 Shares issued under employee share plans 6 90 – – – – – – 96 – 96 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 85 (87 ) – 2,232 – – – – 2,230 – 2,230 Dividends to shareholders9 – – – (7,501 ) – – – – (7,501 ) (815 ) (8,316 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 128 – – – – 128 128 Own shares adjustment – – – (361 ) – – – – (361 ) – (361 ) Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 1,154 – – – – 1,154 – 1,154 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 21 – – – – 21 – 21 Other movements – – – (75 ) – – – – (75 ) 28 (47 ) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (252 ) (252 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – – – – – – – 121 121 At 31 December 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361 ) (95 ) (237 ) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 427. 423 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2013 Notes 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 407 353 Derivatives 18 2,789 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 53,344 41,675 Financial investments 1,210 1,208 Current tax assets 245 147 Prepayments and accrued income 130 82 Investments in subsidiaries 24 92,695 92,234 Property, plant and equipment 3 3 Deferred tax assets 9 13 14 Total assets 150,836 139,484 Liabilities and equity Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 11,685 12,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 27 21,027 23,195 Derivatives 18 704 760 Debt securities in issue 28 2,791 2,691 Other liabilities 29 61 30 Current tax liabilities 48 - Accruals and deferred income 1,266 1,018 Subordinated liabilities 32 14,167 11,907 Total liabilities 51,749 52,457 Equity Called up share capital 38 9,415 9,238 Share premium account 11,135 10,084 Other equity instruments 5,828 5,828 Other reserves 37,303 37,170 Retained earnings 35,406 24,707 Total equity 99,087 87,027 Total equity and liabilities 150,836 139,484 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 427. D J Flint, Group Chairman 424 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 17,725 8,679 Adjustments for: – non-cash items included in profit before tax 39 74 535 – change in operating assets 39 (10,795 ) (4,011 ) – change in operating liabilities 39 (1,061 ) 2,951 – tax received/(paid) 156 (549 ) Net cash generated from operating activities 6,099 7,605 Cash flows from investing activities Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries (665 ) (1,973 ) Net cash used in investing activities (665 ) (1,973 ) Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 1,192 1,905 Sales of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards 44 178 Subordinated loan capital issued 1,989 – Subordinated loan capital repaid (1,618 ) (760 ) Debt securities issued – 2,000 Debt securities repaid – (2,420 ) Dividends paid (6,414 ) (5,925 ) Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments (573 ) (573 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,380 ) (5,595 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 54 37 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 353 316 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 39 407 353 The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 427. 425 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 Other reserves Called up share capital US$m Share premium4 US$m Other equity instru- ments US$m Retained earnings10 US$m Available- for-sale fair value reserve US$m Other paid-in capital11 US$m Merger and other reserves8 US$m Total share- holders’ equity US$m At 1 January 2013 9,238 10,084 5,828 24,707 114 1,929 35,127 87,027 Profit for the year – – – 17,882 – – – 17,882 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – – 10 – – 10 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 2 – – 2 Income tax – – – – 8 – – 8 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 17,882 10 – – 17,892 Shares issued under employee share plans 60 1,168 – (36 ) – – – 1,192 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 117 (117 ) – 2,523 – – – 2,523 Dividends to shareholders9 – – – (9,510 ) – – – (9,510 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 42 – – – 42 Own shares adjustment – – – 222 – – – 222 Exercise and lapse of share options – – – (123 ) – 123 – – Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 49 – – – 49 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – – – – – – Equity investments granted to employees of subsidiaries under employee share plans – – – (350 ) – – – (350 ) At 31 December 2013 9,415 11,135 5,828 35,406 124 2,052 35,127 99,087 At 1 January 2012 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 Profit for the year – – – 8,082 – – – 8,082 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – – 102 – – 102 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 129 – – 129 Income tax – – – – (27 ) – – (27 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 8,082 102 – – 8,184 Shares issued under employee share plans 119 1,812 – (26 ) – – – 1,905 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 185 (185 ) – 2,429 – – – 2,429 Dividends to shareholders9 – – – (8,042 ) – – – (8,042 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 32 – – – 32 Own shares adjustment – – – 379 – – – 379 Exercise and lapse of share options – – – (219 ) – 219 – – Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 55 – – – 55 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 10 – – – 10 Equity investments granted to employees of subsidiaries under employee share plans – – – (108 ) – – – (108 ) At 31 December 2012 9,238 10,084 5,828 24,707 114 1,929 35,127 87,027 Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2013 were US$0.48 (2012: US$0.41; 2011: US$0.39). The accompanying notes on pages 428 to 564 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 427. 426 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Footnotes to Financial Statements 1 The ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 72 to 76, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 134 to 297 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 298 to 328 are also an integral part of these financial statements. 2 Available-for-sale investments include nil in respect of the investment in Ping An classified as ‘Assets held for sale’ (2012: US$737m). 3 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 4 Share premium includes no deduction in respect of issuance costs incurred during the year (2012: nil; 2011: US$2m). 5 Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138m has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including US$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of US$1,669m has been charged against retained earnings. 6 Retained earnings include 85,997,271 (US$915m) of own shares held within HSBC’s Insurance business, retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets (2012: 86,394,826 (US$874m); 2011: 98,498,019 (US$1,320m)). 7 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include a gain of US$223m (2012: US$43m gain; 2011: US$104m gain) taken to ‘Net interest income’ and a gain of US$671m (2012: US$380m gain; 2011: US$893m loss) taken to ‘Net trading income’. 8 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Act’) was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only. In HSBC’s consolidated financial statements the fair value differences of US$8,290m in respect of HSBC France and US$12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), following a number of intra-group reorganisations. During 2009, pursuant to Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and US$15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve includes the deduction of US$614m in respect of costs relating to the rights issue, of which US$149m was subsequently transferred to the income statement. Of this US$149m, US$121m was a loss arising from accounting for the agreement with the underwriters as a contingent forward contract. The merger reserve excludes the loss of US$344m on a forward foreign exchange contract associated with hedging the proceeds of the rights issue. 9 Including distributions paid on preference shares and capital securities classified as equity. 10 Retained earnings include 330,030 (US$5m) (2012: 3,903,901 (US$57m))of own shares held to fund employee share plans. 11 Other paid-in capital arises from the exercise and lapse of share options granted to employees of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries. 427 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 1 Basis of preparation (a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU. At 31 December 2013, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2013 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) and its predecessor body. Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2013 On 1 January 2013, HSBC adopted the following significant new standards and amendments to standards. The financial effect of these new standards and amendments is insignificant to these consolidated financial statements: • IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’, IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ and amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 ‘Transition Guidance’ are required to be applied retrospectively. • Under IFRS 10, there is one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concepts of power, variability of returns and their linkage. This replaces the approach which applied to previous financial statements which emphasised legal control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the entity. HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns by exercising its power over the entity. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, we reviewed the population of investments in entities as at 1 January 2013 to determine whether entities previously consolidated or unconsolidated in accordance with IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’ changed their consolidation status as a result of applying IFRS 10. The result of this review was that the effect of applying the requirements of IFRS 10 did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements. Therefore no restatements are necessary on application of IFRS 10. IFRS 11 places more focus on the investors’ rights and obligations than on the structure of the arrangement when determining the type of joint arrangement with which HSBC is involved, unlike the previous approach, and introduces the concept of a joint operation. The application of IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ did not have a material effect on these consolidated financial statements. • IFRS 12 is a comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including for unconsolidated structured entities. The disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application. New disclosures are provided in Note 42. • IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and introduces new requirements for disclosure of fair value measurements. IFRS 13 is required to be applied prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied. The disclosure requirements of IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application. Disclosures are provided in Notes 15 and 16. • Amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ requires disclosure of the effect or potential effects of netting arrangements on an entity’s financial position. The amendment requires disclosure of recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master 428 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) netting arrangement or similar agreement. The amendments have been applied retrospectively. Disclosures are provided in Note 34. • The amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (‘IAS 19 revised’) are required to be applied retrospectively. The main effect of IAS 19 revised for HSBC is that it replaces the interest cost on the plan liability and expected return on plan assets with a finance cost comprising the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. This finance cost is determined by applying to the net defined benefit liability or asset the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the return included in the finance cost component reflected in the income statement is presented in other comprehensive income. The effect of this change is to increase or decrease the pension expense by the difference between the current expected return on plan assets and the return calculated by applying the relevant discount rate. During 2013, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. (b) Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements. (c) Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited sections of the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 134 to 297. Capital disclosures under IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ have been included in the audited sections of ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ on pages 298 to 328. Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited section of ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 134 to 297. In accordance with HSBC’s policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Group’s performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules. In particular, HSBC provides additional disclosures having regard to the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force (‘EDTF’) report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’ issued in October 2012. The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information about banks’ risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting. The recommendations for disclosure improvement focused on the principal risks faced by the banking industry, and included disclosures about risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity, funding, credit risk, market risk and other risks. In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers’ Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure (‘the BBA Code’). The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance. In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate. In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency. HSBC Holdings’ functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities. 429 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. (d) Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions. The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates; actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared. Management believes that HSBC’s critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, interests in associates, deferred tax assets and provisions for liabilities. See ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 72 to 76, which form an integral part of these financial statements. Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the Notes on the Financial Statements. (e) Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations. Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually. HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. HSBC is considered to have power over an entity when it has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities. For HSBC to have power over an entity, it must have the practical ability to exercise those rights. In the rare situations where potential voting rights exist, these are taken into account if HSBC has the practical ability to exercise those rights. Where voting rights are not relevant in deciding whether HSBC has power over an entity, the assessment of control is based on all facts and circumstances. Where it is not immediately clear where control rests, an analysis of the purpose and design of the entity, including determining which party has power over the activities which most affect its returns and whether there are any additional rights held that may confer such power, is undertaken. When assessing whether to consolidate investment funds, HSBC reviews all facts and circumstances to determine whether HSBC, as fund manager, is acting as agent or principal. HSBC is deemed to be a principal, and hence controls and consolidates the funds, when it acts as fund manager and cannot be removed without cause, has variable returns through significant unit holdings and/or a guarantee, and is able to influence the returns of the funds by exercising its power. The acquisition method of accounting is used when subsidiaries are acquired by HSBC. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement. In the event that the amount of net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement. Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated from the date HSBC gains control and cease to be consolidated on the date HSBC loses control of the entities. 430 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the facts and circumstances determining the control of entities. All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates. These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications, which is included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September. This is equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Group’s reporting timetable. HSBC has taken into account the effect of any significant transactions or events that occurred in the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material effect on its results. Disclosures of interests in unconsolidated structured entities provide information on involvement in these entities which exposes HSBC to variability of returns from the performance of the other entity. Involvement is considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the nature of the entity’s activity. This could include holding debt and equity instruments, or the provision of structured derivatives, but excludes involvement that exist only because of typical customer supplier relationships, such as market-making transactions to facilitate secondary trading or senior lending in the normal course of business. (f) Future accounting developments In addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, discussed below, the IASB is continuing to work on projects on insurance and lease accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future. Amendments issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ which clarified the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and addressed inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with early adoption permitted and are required to be applied retrospectively. We do not expect the amendments to IAS 32 to have a material effect on HSBC’s financial statements. Standards and amendments issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU During 2012 and 2013, the IASB issued various amendments to IFRS that are effective from 1 January 2014 and which are expected to have an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC. In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ which introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. In October 2010, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 incorporating requirements for financial liabilities. Together, these changes represent the first phase in the IASB’s planned replacement of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.’ IFRS 9 classification and measurement requirements are to be applied retrospectively but prior periods need not be restated. In November 2012, the IASB issued proposed amendments to IFRS 9 in respect of classification and measurement. Since the final requirements for classification and measurement are uncertain, it remains impracticable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 as at the date of the publication of these financial statements. The second phase in the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 will address the impairment of financial assets. It is proposed to replace the ‘incurred loss’ approach to the impairment of financial assets carried at amortised cost in IAS 39 with an expected credit loss approach, and require that the expected credit loss approach be applied to other categories of financial instrument, including loan commitments and financial guarantees. The final requirements for impairment of financial assets are expected to be published in 2014. The third phase of the project addresses general hedge accounting. Macro hedging is not included in the IFRS 9 project and will be considered separately. In November 2013, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 in respect of the general hedge accounting requirements, transition and effective date. As a result of these amendments, it is confirmed that all phases of IFRS 9 (except for changes to the presentation of gains and losses for certain 431 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) liabilities measured at fair value) must be applied from the same effective date. The IASB has tentatively decided that the effective date is 1 January 2018. The revised hedge accounting requirements are applied prospectively and HSBC is currently assessing the impact they may have on the financial statements. 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (a) Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value (except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities) are recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability (or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit losses. The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. (b) Non-interest income Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers. Fee income is accounted for as follows: – income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed (for example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities); – income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided (for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees); and – income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate (for example, certain loan commitment fees) and recorded in ‘Interest income’. Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends. Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: – all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, including liabilities under investment contracts; – all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss; and – interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: – financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss; and – derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. (Note 2a). Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity securities. 432 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (c) Operating segments HSBC has a matrix management structure. HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker regularly reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. HSBC considers that geographical operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic environments in which it operates. This reflects the importance of geographic factors on business strategy and performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional management in executing strategy. As a result, HSBC’s operating segments are considered to be geographical regions. Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted on arm’s length terms and conditions. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost of carrying on a business and being headquartered in the UK. (d) Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. In the normal course of business, the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates. When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the financial instrument, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value. When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in fair value from the transaction price as indicated by the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income statement. Instead, it is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, when the inputs become observable, the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction. The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured by the individual financial instrument. However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and financial liabilities according to its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, HSBC measures the fair value of the group of financial instruments on a net basis, but presents the underlying financial assets and liabilities separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria as described on page 74. Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value are measured in accordance with HSBC’s valuation methodologies, which are described in Notes 15 and 16. (e) Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Such investments are normally those with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates of deposit. (f) Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified as held for trading or designated at fair value. Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower. They are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any reduction from impairment or uncollectibility. Where exposures are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment relating only to the hedged risk. 433 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Loans and advances are reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ when their carrying amounts are to be recovered principally through sale, they are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable (Note 2ab); however, such loans and advances continue to be measured in accordance with the policy described above. HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC. Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss. On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss. Where it is not HSBC’s intention to trade but hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss. This may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower than the cost of funding. On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. For certain transactions, such as leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced is not necessarily the best evidence of the fair value of the loan. For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced (for example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest), the write-down is charged to the income statement. The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income using the effective interest method, unless the loan becomes impaired. The write-down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income. (g) Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred. Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively. Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement. The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts. Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised. Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include: – the size of the loan; – the number of loans in the portfolio; and – the importance of the individual loan relationship, and how this is managed. Loans that meet the above criteria will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective assessment methodology. Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers and are for larger amounts, which are managed on an individual relationship basis. Retail lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios generally consist of large pools of homogeneous loans. For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. The criteria used by HSBC to determine that there is such objective evidence include: – known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower; – contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days; – the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation; – a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is not insignificant; and – there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to repay is considered doubtful. For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: 434 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) – HSBC’s aggregate exposure to the customer; – the viability of the customer’s business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations; – the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries; – the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy; – the extent of other creditors’ commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company; – the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident; – the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and likelihood of successful repossession; – the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding; – the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency; and – when available, the secondary market price of the debt. The realisable value of security is determined based on the current market value when the impairment assessment is performed. The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices; however, adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts. Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which includes expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loan’s original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. The impairment allowances on individually significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require. This normally encompasses re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral held and the timing and amount of actual and anticipated receipts. Individually assessed impairment allowances are only released when there is reasonable and objective evidence of a reduction in the established loss estimate. Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: – to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment; and – for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant. Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective impairment. These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors. This reflects impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. These losses will only be individually identified in the future. As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis for impairment. The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: – historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics (for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product); – the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan; and – management’s experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience. The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio. The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer 435 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. As it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis the estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification may vary over time as these factors change. Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable. Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at which point they are removed from the group. The methods that are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis are as follows: – When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology. This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable. In addition to the delinquency groupings, loans are segmented according to their credit characteristics as described above. In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring and its discovery, for example through a missed payment, (known as the emergence period) and the period of time between discovery and write-off (known as the outcome period). Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss. The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio. In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics. – When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model. Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss occurring and its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is typically between six and twelve months. The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data observations, which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends. When the most recent trends arising from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in the statistical models, they are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the statistical models to reflect these changes as at the balance sheet date. These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features (such as the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges), economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, changes in laws and regulations and other factors which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters. These risk factors, where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience. Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. Write-off of loans and advances Loans (and the related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier. 436 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly. The write-back is recognised in the income statement. Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in ‘Other assets’ if the carrying amounts of the assets are recovered principally through sale, the assets are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan (net of impairment allowance) at the date of exchange. No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale. Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in ‘Other operating income’. Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in ‘Other operating income’, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal. Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments required have been received. Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment, to reflect their risk profile. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired. The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition. A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms, or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified, such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument. (h) Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity securities, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. These financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell the financial instruments, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. (i) Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management. HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: – eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different bases. Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues. The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on ‘receive fixed/pay variable’ interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy. An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement. By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement. 437 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked insurance and unit-linked investment contracts. Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement. If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available for sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded in other comprehensive income. These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis. Designation at fair value of the financial assets and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line; – applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis. Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under non-linked insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated. HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks. Reports are provided to management on the fair value of the assets. Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations; and – relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held. The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable. Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. (j) Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value, are classified as available for sale or held to maturity. Financial investments are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations. (i) Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income in ‘Available-for-sale investments – fair value gains/(losses)’ until the financial assets are either sold or become impaired. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’. Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated over the asset’s expected life. Premiums and/or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates. Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established. At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset. Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated. If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial asset’s acquisition cost (net of any principal repayments and amortisation) and the current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement. 438 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within ‘Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions’ in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity securities are recognised within ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’ in the income statement. The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below. – Available-for-sale debt securities. When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in recovery of future cash flows. These events may include a significant financial difficulty of the issuer, a breach of contract such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, or the disappearance of an active market for the debt security because of financial difficulties relating to the issuer. These types of specific event and other factors such as information about the issuers’ liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment of a debt security. In addition, when assessing available-for-sale asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) for objective evidence of impairment, HSBC considers the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of market price declines. Changes in credit ratings are considered but a downgrade of a security’s credit rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment. The primary indicators of potential impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security. ABS impairment methodologies are described in more detail in ‘Impairment methodologies’ on page 275. – Available-for-sale equity securities. Objective evidence of impairment for available-for sale equity securities may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment. In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition. Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the available-for-sale financial asset concerned: – for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income. If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. If there is no longer objective evidence that the debt security is impaired, the impairment loss is also reversed through the income statement; – for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement. Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost of the equity security. (ii) Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold to maturity. Held-to-maturity investments 439 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. (k) Sale and repurchase agreements (including stock lending and borrowing) When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to sell (‘reverse repos’) are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in ‘Loans and advances to banks’, ‘Loans and advances to customers’ or ‘Trading assets’ as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement for loans and advances to banks and customers. For trading assets, the interest and other fair value movements on the instrument are shown in net trading income. Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received. The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally reflected on the balance sheet. Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively. Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet. If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in ‘Net trading income’. (l) Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value. Fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices. Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models. Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option. Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract; the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract; and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis. The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged. All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement. When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: (i) hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (‘fair value hedges’); (ii) hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction (‘cash flow hedges’); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (‘net investment hedges’). Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met. Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge. HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in ‘Net interest income’. 440 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk. If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately. Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income within ‘Cash flow hedges – fair value gains/(losses)’. Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement. Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income; a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation. Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective (prospective effectiveness), and demonstrate actual effectiveness (retrospective effectiveness) on an ongoing basis. The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed. The method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy. For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated. For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80% to 125%. Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement. These gains and losses are reported in ‘Net trading income’, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value (other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC), in which case gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC which are designated at fair value is recognised in 441 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) ‘Interest expense’. All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting include non-qualifying hedges entered into as part of documented interest rate management strategies for which hedge accounting was not, or could not, be applied. The size and direction of changes in fair value of non-qualifying hedges can be volatile from year to year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented management strategies for both the non-qualifying hedge instruments and the assets and liabilities to which the documented interest rate strategies relate. Non-qualifying hedges therefore operate as economic hedges of the related assets and liabilities. (m) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired; or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: – substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred; or – HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control. Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled, or expires. (n) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (o) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries. Investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control of an arrangement set up to undertake an economic activity are classified as joint ventures. HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates. HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses. Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are reversed through the income statement if, and only if, there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary since the last impairment loss was recognised. Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBC’s share of net assets. Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBC’s interest in the respective associates or joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBC’s interest in the associates or joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, and key activities are directed by contractual agreement. Structured entities often have restricted activities and a narrow and well defined objective. Examples of structured entities include investment funds, securitisation vehicles and asset backed financings. Involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is disclosed in Note 42. For the purposes of disclosure, HSBC would be considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or in bringing together the relevant counterparties so that the transaction, which is the purpose of the entity, could occur. This would generally include situations where HSBC initially sets up an entity for a structured transaction. HSBC would not be considered a sponsor once our initial involvement in setting up the structured entity had ceased if we were 442 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) subsequently involved with the entity only to the extent of providing arm’s length services, for example through the provision of senior lending in the ordinary course of business. (p) Goodwill and intangible assets (i) Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. If the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the cost of investment exceeds HSBC’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s or joint venture’s identifiable assets and liabilities. Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’s) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s cash-generating units are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. Impairment testing is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the CGU may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount. The carrying amount of a CGU is based on the assets and liabilities of each CGU, including attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of the expected future cash flows from a cash-generating unit. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in ‘Interests in associates and joint ventures’ and is not tested separately for impairment. At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBC’s share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained. (ii) Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships. Computer software includes both purchased and internally generated software. The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately as incurred. Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where: – intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually. This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year. An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year; and – intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life. The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within ‘Net fee income’. For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business (see Note 2y). 443 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (iii) Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful lives as follows: Trade names 10 years Mortgage servicing rights generally between 5 and 12 years Internally generated software between 3 and 5 years Purchased software between 3 and 5 years Customer/merchant relationships between 3 and 10 years Other generally 10 years (q) Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (‘deemed cost’), less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: – freehold land is not depreciated; – freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their remaining useful lives; and – leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their remaining useful lives. Equipment, fixtures and fittings (including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor) are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation, is calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years. Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both. Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques. (r) Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases. When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in ‘Loans and advances to banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’, as appropriate. The finance income receivable is recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in ‘Other liabilities’. A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance charges payable are recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and accounts for them accordingly. Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is thereby impaired. When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet. Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in ‘General and administrative expenses’ and ‘Other operating income’, respectively. 444 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (s) Income tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears. Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists. Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset. Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other comprehensive income. Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense. Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, is also charged or credited to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. (t) Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world. These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare. Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBC’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render service. The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the schemes’ actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability and is presented in operating expenses. Service cost comprises current service cost, past service cost, and gain or loss on settlement. The past service cost which is charged immediately to the income statement, is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior periods, resulting from a plan amendment (the introduction or withdrawal of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan) or curtailment (a significant reduction by the entity in the number of employees covered by a plan). A settlement is a transaction that eliminates all further legal and constructive obligations for part or all of the benefits provided under a defined benefit plan, other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, employees that is set out in the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred), as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. 445 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The defined benefit liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans. (u) Share-based payments HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for services provided by employees. Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle employees to receive equity instruments of HSBC. Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle employees to receive cash or other assets based on the price or value of the equity instruments of HSBC. The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to ‘Retained earnings’. The vesting period is the period during which all the specified vesting conditions of the arrangement are to be satisfied. The fair value of equity instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed immediately. For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability, as the employees render service. Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award. Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance conditions; any other features of the arrangement are non-vesting conditions. Market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether these conditions are satisfied, provided all other vesting conditions are satisfied. Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date. They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest. On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions. Where an award has been modified, as a minimum, the expense of the original award continues to be recognised as if it had not been modified. Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award of the extra equity instruments is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the modified vesting period. A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period. Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, the cost is recognised in ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ and credited to the ‘Retained earnings’ over the vesting period. When a subsidiary funds the share-based payment arrangement, ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ is reduced by the fair value of the equity instruments. (v) Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBC’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at 446 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined. Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income. Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement. In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period. Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income. Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements. In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised. (w) Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC; or are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote. (x) Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable. Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations. HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities. Where it has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract in HSBC Holdings’ financial statements. This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each contract is irrevocable. Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities. (y) Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. 447 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Insurance premiums Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established. Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period. The unearned premium (the proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance sheet date) is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis. Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate. Insurance claims and reinsurance recoveries Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration. Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims. Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment. Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities. Death claims are recognised when notified. Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding claims liabilities. Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles. Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claim-handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques. A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows. When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability. When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement. Future profit participation on insurance contracts with discretionary participation features Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders. These provisions reflect actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and management expectation on the future performance in connection with the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate. This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy. Investment contracts Unit linked and non-linked Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value. Movements in fair value are recognised in ‘Net income from financial investments designated at fair value’. Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts. 448 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision of the investment management services, in ‘Net fee income’. The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided. Investment contracts with discretionary participation features While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. The Group therefore recognises the premiums for those contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability. In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets. In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable. Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement. Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term investment contracts with discretionary participating features (‘DPF’) and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset. The asset represents the present value of the equity holders’ interest in the issuing insurance companies’ profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date. The present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with DPF, referred to as ‘PVIF’, is determined by discounting the equity holders’ interest in future profits expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts. The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees. The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in ‘Other operating income’ on a gross of tax basis. (z) Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the instrument. (aa) Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled. When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects. 449 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (ab) Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups (including both the assets and liabilities of the disposal groups) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale, they are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except for those assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ such as deferred taxes, financial instruments, investment properties, insurance contracts and assets and liabilities arising from employee benefits. These are measured in accordance with the accounting policies described above. Immediately before the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the asset (or assets and liabilities in the disposal group) are measured in accordance with applicable IFRSs. On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities noted above that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 are remeasured in accordance with applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group is determined. 3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: • all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, including liabilities under investment contracts; • all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and • interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: – financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and – derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising from HSBC’s issued debt securities and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Net income/(expense) arising on: – financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 3,170 2,980 (933 ) – other financial assets designated at fair value 118 83 1,050 – derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets designated at fair value (26 ) 35 (182 ) 3,262 3,098 (65 ) – liabilities to customers under investment contracts (1,237 ) (996 ) 231 – HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives (1,228 ) (4,327 ) 4,161 – changes in own credit spread on long-term debt (1,246 ) (5,215 ) 3,933 – derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC’s issued debt securities (3,743 ) 431 3,165 – other changes in fair value 3,761 457 (2,937 ) – other financial liabilities designated at fair value (39 ) (23 ) (911 ) – derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities designated at fair value 10 22 23 (2,494 ) (5,324 ) 3,504 768 (2,226 ) 3,439 450 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Net income/(expense) arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Net income/(expense) arising on: – changes in own credit spread on long-term debt (695 ) (2,260 ) 1,657 – derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities (1,558 ) 456 1,368 – other changes in fair value 1,213 (474 ) (1,113 ) (1,040 ) (2,278 ) 1,912 4 Net earned insurance premiums Non-linked insurance1 Linked life insurance Investment contracts with DPF2 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 Gross earned premiums 7,002 3,012 2,384 12,398 – gross written premiums 6,963 3,012 2,384 12,359 – movement in unearned premiums 39 – – 39 Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (450) (8 ) – (458 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (427) (8 ) – (435 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums (23) – – (23 ) 6,552 3,004 2,384 11,940 2012 Gross earned premiums 7,578 3,325 2,699 13,602 – gross written premiums 7,575 3,325 2,699 13,599 – movement in unearned premiums 3 – – 3 Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (550) (8 ) – (558 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (512) (8 ) – (520 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums (38) – – (38 ) 7,028 3,317 2,699 13,044 2011 Gross earned premiums 7,382 2,801 3,155 13,338 – gross written premiums 7,382 2,804 3,155 13,341 – movement in unearned premiums – (3 ) – (3 ) Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (458) (8 ) – (466 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (437) (8 ) – (445 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums (21) – – (21 ) 6,924 2,793 3,155 12,872 1 Includes non-life insurance. 2 Discretionary participation features. 5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders Non-linked insurance1 Linked life insurance Investment contracts with DPF2 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 6,892 3,379 3,677 13,948 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,014 1,976 2,308 7,298 – movement in liabilities 3,878 1,403 1,369 6,650 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (367) 111 – (256 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (164) (426 ) – (590 ) – movement in liabilities (203) 537 – 334 6,525 3,490 3,677 13,692 451 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (continued) Non-linked insurance1 Linked life insurance Investment contracts with DPF2 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 6,900 3,984 3,645 14,529 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 1,905 1,810 2,525 6,240 – movement in liabilities 4,995 2,174 1,120 8,289 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (537) 223 – (314 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (217) (681 ) – (898 ) – movement in liabilities (320) 904 – 584 6,363 4,207 3,645 14,215 2011 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 6,164 2,462 3,005 11,631 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,424 1,129 2,628 6,181 – movement in liabilities 3,740 1,333 377 5,450 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (339) (111 ) – (450 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (245) (56 ) – (301 ) – movement in liabilities (94) (55 ) – (149 ) 5,825 2,351 3,005 11,181 1 Includes non-life insurance. 2 Discretionary participation features. 6 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses, and loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions: 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets 1,261 1,261 1,604 Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities 9,799 10,042 11,318 Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers 3,176 2,897 3,072 Income from listed investments 5,432 5,850 8,283 Income from unlisted investments 6,860 7,677 8,031 Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value (14,610 ) (17,625 ) (20,965 ) Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities (1,396 ) (1,501 ) (1,697 ) Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers (171 ) (170 ) (182 ) UK bank levy (916 ) (472 ) (570 ) Auditors’ remuneration (see Note 8) (45 ) (49 ) (51 ) Gains/(losses) Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities (175 ) (420 ) (177 ) Gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale (729 ) 485 55 Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and non-financial investments 178 187 57 Gains on disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A . 1,107 – – Net gains arising from dilution of interest in Industrial Bank and other associates and joint ventures 1,051 – 208 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (5,849 ) (8,311 ) (12,127 ) Net impairment charge on loans and advances (6,048 ) (8,160 ) (11,505 ) Release/(impairment) of available-for-sale debt securities 211 (99 ) (631 ) Release/(impairment) in respect of other credit risk provisions (12 ) (52 ) 9 452 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 7 Employee compensation and benefits 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Wages and salaries 16,879 17,780 18,923 Social security costs 1,594 1,633 1,754 Post-employment benefits 723 1,078 489 19,196 20,491 21,166 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 2013 2012 2011 Europe 75,334 77,204 81,263 Hong Kong 28,540 28,764 30,323 Rest of Asia-Pacific 85,676 88,015 92,685 Middle East and North Africa 9,181 8,645 8,816 North America 22,568 27,396 34,871 Latin America 47,496 54,162 58,026 268,795 284,186 305,984 Included in ‘Wages and salaries’ above are share-based payments arrangements, as follows: Share-based payments income statement charge 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Restricted and performance share awards1 599 912 1,041 Savings-related and other share award option plans2 63 96 121 662 1,008 1,162 Equity-settled share-based payments 630 988 1,154 Cash-settled share-based payments 32 20 8 1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). 2 Includes US$1m relating to the HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan. This new broad-based employee plan was launched in Hong Kong in September 2013. The above ‘Share-based payments income statement charge’ includes US$542m (2012: US$837m; 2011: US$974m) relating to deferred share awards. These awards are generally granted to employees early in the year following the year to which the award relates. The charge for these awards is recognised from the start of the period to which the service relates to the end of the vesting period. The vesting period is the period over which the employee satisfies certain service conditions in order to become entitled to the award. Due to the staggered vesting profile of certain deferred share awards, the employee becomes entitled to a portion of the award on an annual basis during the vesting period. The income statement charge reflects this vesting profile. In addition, ‘Wages and salaries’ also includes US$154m (2012: US$111m; 2011: US$88m) in respect of deferred cash awards for current and prior performance years. The reconciliation of total incentive awards (both deferred and non-deferred) to income statement charge is as follows: Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to incentive awards in employee compensation and benefits 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year1 3,920 3,689 3,966 Less: deferred bonuses awarded for the current year but not amortised (436 ) (355 ) (369 ) Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,484 3,334 3,597 Current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 427 671 897 Other2 (164 ) (28 ) (261 ) Total incentive awards for the current year included in employee compensation and benefits 3,747 3,977 4,233 1 This represents the amount of the Group variable pay pool that has been approved and granted. The total amount of Group variable pay pool approved by the Group Remuneration Committee is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 380. 453 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 2 This mainly comprises incentive awards paid to employees acting as selling agents, which form an integral part of the effective interest of a financial instrument, recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate and recorded in ‘Interest income’. The following table identifies the charge recognised in the current year, or expected to be recognised in future years, in relation to deferred bonus awards from the current year and prior year bonus pools. Income statement charge for current and prior year bonus pools Current year bonus pool1 Prior year bonus pools Total US$m US$m US$m 2013 Charge recognised in 2013 269 427 696 Deferred share awards 188 354 542 Deferred cash awards 81 73 154 Charge expected to be recognised in 2014 or later 436 306 742 Deferred share awards 356 259 615 Deferred cash awards 80 47 127 2012 Charge recognised in 2012 277 671 948 Deferred share awards 224 613 837 Deferred cash awards 53 58 111 Charge expected to be recognised in 2013 or later 355 376 731 Deferred share awards 315 335 650 Deferred cash awards 40 41 81 2011 Charge recognised in 2011 165 897 1,062 Deferred share awards 131 843 974 Deferred cash awards 34 54 88 Charge expected to be recognised in 2012 or later 369 731 1,100 Deferred share awards 289 652 941 Deferred cash awards 80 79 159 1 Current year bonus pool relates to the bonus pool declared for the reporting period (2013 for the current year, 2012 for the 2012 comparatives and 2011 for the 2011 comparatives). Share-based payments HSBC share awards Award Policy Purpose Restricted share awards (including GPSP awards) • Vesting of awards generally subject to continued employment with HSBC. • Vesting is generally staggered over three years. GPSP awards vest after five years. • Certain shares subject to a retention requirement post-vesting. In the case of GPSP awards retention applies until cessation of employment. • Awards generally not subject to performance conditions. • Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to clawback provision prior to vesting. • Rewards employee performance and potential and supports retention of key employees. • To defer variable pay. 454 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement on HSBC share awards Restricted share awards1 2013 2012 Number(000s) Number(000s) Outstanding at 1 January 165,589 262,241 Additions during the year 59,261 107,928 Released in the year (99,820 ) (193,692 ) Forfeited in the year (8,098 ) (10,888 ) Outstanding at 31 December 116,932 165,589 Weighted average fair value of awards granted (US$) 10.95 8.93 1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Purpose Savings-related share option plans • Two plans: the UK plan and the International Plan. The last grant of options under the International Plan was in 2012. • Eligible employees save up to £250 per month (or for options granted prior to 2013, the equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros), with the option to use the savings to acquire shares. • Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversaries of the commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively, (or for options granted prior to 2013, three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract). • The exercise price is set at a 20% (2012: 20%) discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation (except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan prior to 2013 where a 15% discount was applied). • To align the interests of all employees with the creation of shareholder value. HSBC Holdings Group share option plan • Plan ceased in May 2005. • Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant. • Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and 2005 during which certain HSBC employees were awarded share options. The table on page 456 shows the movement on HSBC share option plans during the year. Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options at the date of grant of the option are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant. Significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted Savings-related share option plans 1-year plan 3-year plans 5-year plans 2013 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) n/a 0.91 1.73 Expected life (years) n/a 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) n/a 20 20 Share price at grant date (£) n/a 6.89 6.89 2012 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) 0.4 0.6 1.2 Expected life (years) 1 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) 25 25 25 Share price at grant date (£) 5.46 5.46 5.46 2011 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) 0.8 1.7 2.5 Expected life (years) 1 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) 25 25 25 Share price at grant date (£) 6.37 6.37 6.37 455 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve. A similar yield curve was used for the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International. 2 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded options over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options. The expected US dollar denominated dividend yield was determined to be 4.5% per annum in line with consensus analyst forecasts (2012: 5.0%; 2011: 4.5%). HSBC subsidiary company share option plans There are employee share option plans relating to HSBC Bank Bermuda as a result of the acquisition of this entity. Options granted prior to public announcement of the acquisition vested on acquisition and are not included in the table below. Full details of the options under these plans that lapsed during 2013 can be found in Note 38. There were no options outstanding under these plans as at 31 December 2013. Movement on HSBC share option plans Savings-related share option plans HSBC Holdings Group share option plan Number(000s) WAEP1 £ Number(000s) WAEP1 £ 2013 Outstanding at 1 January 112,752 4.04 87,173 6.94 Granted during the year2 8,679 5.47 – – Exercised during the year3 (17,968 ) 4.56 (17,595 ) 6.21 Expired during the year (9,703 ) 4.47 (14,552 ) 4.21 Outstanding at 31 December 93,760 4.04 55,026 7.23 At 31 December 2013 Exercise price range (£): 3.00 – 4.50 76,091 – 4.51 – 6.00 17,669 – 6.01 – 7.50 – 54,744 7.51 – 7.96 – 282 Of which exercisable 873 55,026 Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 1.80 0.45 2012 Outstanding at 1 January 153,465 3.80 120,792 7.02 Granted during the year2 44,868 4.44 – – Exercised during the year3 (63,954 ) 3.47 (1,606 ) 6.02 Expired during the year (21,627 ) 4.82 (32,013 ) 7.29 Outstanding at 31 December 112,752 4.04 87,173 6.94 At 31 December 2012 Exercise price range (£): 3.00 – 4.50 95,333 – 4.51 – 6.00 16,129 – 6.01 – 7.50 1,290 82,278 7.51 – 9.29 – 4,895 Of which exercisable 4,538 87,173 Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2.26 1.11 1 Weighted average exercise price. 2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$2.98 (2012: US$1.63). 3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$10.86 (2012: US$8.78) and US$10.93 (2012: US$9.00) for the savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively. 456 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Post-employment benefit plans Income statement charge 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Defined benefit pension plans 54 427 (172 ) – HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (312 ) 169 (428 ) – other plans 366 258 256 Defined contribution pension plans 597 599 626 651 1,026 454 Defined benefit healthcare plans 67 49 32 Defined contribution healthcare plans 5 3 3 723 1,078 489 Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Defined benefit pension plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2,036 2,617 – fair value of plan assets 31,665 29,092 – present value of defined benefit obligations (29,629 ) (26,475 ) Other plans (1,911 ) (2,585 ) – fair value of plan assets 8,957 9,015 – present value of defined benefit obligations (10,838 ) (11,581 ) – effect of limit on plan surpluses (30 ) (19 ) 125 32 Defined benefit healthcare plans – fair value of plan assets 190 189 – present value of defined benefit obligations (1,106 ) (1,280 ) (916 ) (1,091 ) Fair value of plan assets 40,812 38,296 Present value of defined benefit obligations (41,573 ) (39,336 ) Effect of limit on plan surpluses (30 ) (19 ) (791 ) (1,059 ) Total employee benefit liabilities (2,931 ) (3,905 ) Total employee benefit assets 2,140 2,846 Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 1 January (3,844 ) (3,453 ) (4,720 ) HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (1,524 ) 208 1,945 Other plans 796 (440 ) (642 ) Healthcare plans 143 (154 ) (61 ) Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses1 (16 ) (5 ) 25 Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income (601 ) (391 ) 1,267 At 31 December2 (4,445 ) (3,844 ) (3,453 ) 1 Excludes exchange gain of US$5m (2012: US$4m loss; 2011: US$4m loss). 2 Includes cumulative movements related to the limit on plan surpluses. This limit was US$30m at 31 December 2013 (2012: US$19m; 2011: US$18m). 457 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC pension plans 2013 2012 2011 Number of plans worldwide 216 225 230 % % % Percentage of HSBC employees: – enrolled in defined contribution plans 64 62 64 – enrolled in defined benefit plans 23 23 25 – covered by HSBC pension plans 87 85 89 HSBC has been progressively offering all new employees membership of defined contribution plans. The majority of the Group’s defined benefit plans are funded plans. The assets of most of the larger plans are held in trusts or similar funds separate from HSBC. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the plans are situated. At 31 December 2013, the present values of the defined benefit obligations of The HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme was US$29,629m (2012: US$26,475m), The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme was US$1,326m (2012:US$1,476m) and the HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan was US$3,892m (2012: US$4,374m). These defined benefit pension plans covered 12% of HSBC’s employees and represented 84% of the Group’s present value of defined benefit obligations. The Pension Risk section on page 260 and the Appendix to Risk on page 266 contain details about the characteristics and risks and amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows and policies and practices associated with these three schemes. The determinations described in the Pension Risk section on page 260 for actuarial funding valuation purposes are based on different methods and assumptions from those used for financial reporting purposes, and as a result should neither be compared nor related to other determinations included in these financial statements. There is no actuarial deficit in the Principal plan. HSBC healthcare benefits plans HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Bermuda, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded. The majority of post-employment healthcare benefits plans are defined benefit plans and are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated. At 31 December 2013, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of HSBC’s healthcare benefit plans was US$1,106m (2012: US$1,280m). In aggregate, healthcare benefit plans comprised 3% of HSBC’s present value of defined benefit obligations. 458 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Defined benefit pension plans Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans Fair value ofplan assets Present value ofdefined benefitobligations Effect of the asset ceiling Net definedbenefit liability HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net defined benefit liability At 1 January 2013 29,092 9,015 (26,475 ) (11,581 ) – (19 ) 2,617 (2,585 ) Current service cost – – (259 ) (249 ) – – (259 ) (249 ) Past service cost and gains/(losses) from settlements – (3 ) 438 (41 ) – – 438 (44 ) – plan amendments – – 438 – – – 438 – – curtailments – – – 7 – – – 7 – settlements1 – (3 ) – 14 – – – 11 – past service cost and gains and losses from settlement occurring together – – – (62 ) – – – (62 ) Service cost – (3 ) 179 (290 ) – – 179 (293 ) Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit liability 1,260 156 (1,127 ) (229 ) – – 133 (73 ) Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 817 21 (2,341 ) 775 – (16 ) (1,524 ) 780 – return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 817 21 – – – – 817 21 – actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in demographic assumptions – – 159 (95 ) – – 159 (95 ) – actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in financial assumptions – – (2,453 ) 829 – – (2,453 ) 829 – actuarial gains/(losses) from experience – – (47 ) 41 – – (47 ) 41 – changes in the effect of limit on plan surpluses2 – – – – – (16) – (16 ) Exchange differences 766 (59 ) (740 ) 23 – 5 26 (31 ) Contributions by HSBC 605 336 – – – – 605 336 – normal 399 274 – – – – 399 274 – special 206 62 – – – – 206 62 Contributions by employees 38 17 (38 ) (17 ) – – – – Benefits paid (876 ) (513 ) 876 452 – – – (61 ) Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan (37 ) (13 ) 37 13 – – – – Disposals – – – 16 – – – 16 At 31 December 2013 31,665 8,957 (29,629 ) (10,838 ) – (30 ) 2,036 (1,911 ) Retirement benefit liabilities recognised on the balance sheet – (2,015 ) Retirement benefit assets recognised on the balance sheet (within ‘Other assets’) 2,036 104 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: – actives (8,896 ) (5,465 ) – deferreds (8,358 ) (2,144 ) – pensioners (12,375 ) (3,229 ) 459 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans (continued) Fair value ofplan assets Present value ofdefined benefitobligations Effect of the asset ceiling Net definedbenefit liability HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net defined benefit liability3 26,604 8,232 (24,367 ) (10,659 ) – (18 ) 2,237 (2,445 ) At 1 January 2012 Current service cost – – (236 ) (310 ) – – (236 ) (310 ) Past service cost and gains/(losses) from settlements – (16 ) (14 ) – – – (30 ) – plan amendments – – – (51 ) – – – (51 ) – curtailments – – – 11 – – – 11 – settlements1 – (16 ) – 26 – – – 10 – past service cost and gains and losses from settlement occurring together – – – – – – – – Service cost – (16 ) (236 ) (334 ) – – (236 ) (340 ) Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit liability 1,245 486 (1,178 ) (404 ) – – 67 82 Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 680 410 (472 ) (850 ) – (5 ) 208 (445 ) – return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 680 410 – – – – 680 410 – actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in demographic assumptions – – (612 ) (160 ) – – (612 ) (160 ) – actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in financial assumptions – – (740 ) (746 ) – – (740 ) (746 ) – actuarial gains/(losses) from experience – – 880 56 – – 880 56 – changes in the effect of limit on plan surpluses2 – – – – – (5 ) (5 ) Exchange differences 1,195 38 (1,092 ) (66 ) – 4 103 (24 ) Contributions by HSBC 238 475 – – – – 238 475 – normal 238 191 – – – – 238 191 – special – 284 – – – – – 284 Contributions by employees 37 20 (36 ) (21 ) – – 1 (1 ) Benefits paid (876 ) (618 ) 875 731 – – (1 ) 113 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan (31 ) (12 ) 31 12 – – – – Disposals – – – – – – – – At 31 December 2012 29,092 9,015 (26,475 ) (11,581 ) – (19 ) 2,617 (2,585 ) Retirement benefit liabilities recognised on the balance sheet – (2,814 ) Retirement benefit assets recognised on the balance sheet (within ‘Other assets’) 2,617 229 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: – actives (7,625 ) (5,572 ) – deferreds (7,094 ) (2,290 ) – pensioners (11,756 ) (3,719 ) 1 (Gains) and losses from settlements arise as the difference between assets distributed and liabilities extinguished on settlements. 2 IAS 19 discloses how the maximum economic benefit available under the effect of the asset ceiling was determined, i.e. are benefits available in the form of refunds, reductions in future contributions or a combination of both. 460 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 3 On transition to IAS 19 Revised, unrecognised past service cost of US$19m at 31 December 2012 has been recognised as an actuarial experience gain. HSBC expects to make US$655m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2014. Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: Benefits expected to be paid from plans 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019-2023 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme1 995 1,028 1,063 1,098 1,134 6,424 Other plans1 524 523 542 585 613 3,530 1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.5 years for the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme under the disclosure assumptions adopted (2012: 19.3 years) and 13.7 years for all other plans combined (2012: 14.6 years). Included within ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ are components of net periodic benefit cost related to HSBC’s defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefits, as follows: Total (income)/expense recognised in the income statement in ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ 2013 2012 US$m US$m Defined benefit pension plans Current service cost 458 503 Net interest income on the net defined benefit asset/liability (60 ) (149 ) Past service cost and (gains)/losses on settlements (394 ) 30 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan1 50 43 54 427 Defined benefit healthcare plans 67 49 Total (income)/expense 121 476 1 Amounts previously disclosed within ‘Current service cost’ disclosed separately under the requirements of IAS 19 revised. In 2013, following consultation on various employee benefit proposals, HSBC announced to employees in the UK that the future service accrual for active members of the Defined Benefit Section (‘DBS’) would cease with effect from 30 June 2015. As a result, defined benefit pensions based on service to 30 June 2015 will continue to be linked to final salary on retirement (underpinned by increases in CPI) but all active members of the DBS will become members of the Defined Contribution Section from 1 July 2015. As part of these amendments, the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) will cease to deliver ill-health benefits to active members of the DBS and these benefits will, instead, be covered via insurance policies from 1 January 2015, consistent with other UK employees. This resulted in a reduction in the defined benefit obligation of the Scheme and a corresponding gain of US$430m, recorded in ‘Past service cost and (gains)/losses on settlements’ in the table above. 461 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair value of plan assets by asset classes 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Value Quoted market price in active market No quoted market price in active market Thereof HSBC1 Value Quoted market price in active market No quoted market price in active market Thereof HSBC1 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Fair value of plan assets 31,665 26,520 5,145 2,827 29,092 22,441 6,651 5,226 Equities 4,655 3,667 988 – 3,899 3,899 – – Bonds 17,708 17,708 – – 13,868 13,868 – – Contractually linked instruments 2,936 2,936 – – 1,582 1,582 – – Property 1,330 – 1,330 – 1,425 – 1,425 – Derivatives 2,827 – 2,827 2,827 5,226 – 5,226 5,226 Other 2,209 2,209 – – 3,092 3,092 – – Other plans Fair value of plan assets 8,957 7,731 1,226 574 9,021 8,359 662 640 Equities 2,854 2,789 65 14 2,688 2,688 – 20 Bonds 4,892 4,409 483 9 4,963 4,963 – – Contractually linked instruments 3 – 3 – – – – – Property 104 36 68 – 108 – 108 – Derivatives 399 – 399 399 328 – 328 328 Other 705 497 208 152 934 708 226 292 1 This column shows equities, bonds and contractually linked instruments issued by HSBC, property used by HSBC and derivatives entered into with HSBC. The fair value of plan assets included derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc by the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme and the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme with positive fair values of US$2,827m at 31 December 2013 (2012: US$5,226m) and US$399m (2012: US$328m), respectively. Further details of these swap arrangements are included in Note 44. The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 31 December 2013 was a positive return of US$2,254m (2012: positive US$2,784m). Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations disaggregated by the nature of the benefits provided. 2013 2012 Final salary Cash Final salary Cash pension lump sum balance pension lump sum balance HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 25,970 3,659 – 23,430 3,045 – Hong Kong – 1,362 – – 1,476 – US 3,423 233 236 3,781 318 275 The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s obligations for the largest defined benefit pension plans at 31 December for each year, and used as the basis for measuring periodic costs under the plans in the following years, were as follows: 462 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate Inflation rate Rate of increase for pensions1 Rate of pay increase Interest credit rate % % % % % At 31 December 2013 UK2 4.45 3.60 3.30 4.10 n/a Hong Kong 2.15 n/a n/a 4.00 n/a US 4.80 2.50 n/a n/a 4.75 At 31 December 2012 UK2 4.50 3.10 2.90 3.60 n/a Hong Kong 0.60 n/a n/a 4.00 n/a US 3.95 2.50 n/a 2.75 4.75 At 31 December 2011 UK2 4.80 3.20 3.10 3.70 n/a Hong Kong 1.47 n/a n/a 5.00 n/a US 4.60 2.50 n/a 2.75 4.75 1 Rate of increase for pensions in payments and deferred pensions (except for the UK). 2 Rate of increase for pensions in the UK is for pensions in payment only, capped at 5%. Deferred pensions are projected to increase in line with the CPI, capped at 5%. For 2010, deferred pensions were projected to increase in line with the RPI, capped at 5%. HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality (AA rated or equivalent) debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations. In countries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds, government bond yields are used. The yield curve is extrapolated when the term of the liabilities is longer than the duration of available bonds, in which case the discount rate takes into account the term of the liabilities and the shape of the yield curve. When determining the discount rate with reference to a bond index, an appropriate index for the specific region is used. Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 Mortality table Life expectancy at age 65 for a male member currently: Life expectancy at age 65 for a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 At 31 December 2013 UK SAPS S11 23.6 25.2 24.9 26.8 Hong Kong2 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a US RP 2000 fully generational 21.2 23.2 23.3 25.1 At 31 December 2012 UK SAPS S11 23.9 25.6 25.4 27.7 Hong Kong2 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a US RP 2000 fully generational 21.1 23.1 23.2 25.0 1 SAPS S1 with Continuous Mortality Investigation 2013 improvements (2012:2011improvements) and a 1.25% long-term allowance improvement. Light table with 1.01 rating for male pensioners and 1.02 rating for female pensioners. 2 The significant plans in Hong Kong are lump sum plans which do not use a post-retirement mortality table. Actuarial assumption sensitivities The discount rate is sensitive to changes in market conditions arising during the reporting period. The mortality rates used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile. The following table shows the effect of changes in these and the other key assumptions on the principal defined benefit pension plan: 463 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2013 2012 US$m US$m Discount rate Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase (1,352) (1,191) Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease 1,450 1,275 Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps increase (83) (78) Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 79 76 Rate of inflation Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 994 881 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (1,137) (842) Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps increase 53 48 Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (68) (47) Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 1,301 719 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (1,225) (692) Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps increase 66 36 Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (64) (34) Rate of pay increase Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 212 175 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (205) (173) Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps increase 15 15 Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (15) (13) Mortality Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 712 663 The effect of changes in the discount rate and in mortality rates on plans other than the principal plan Other plans 2013 2012 US$m US$m Change in defined benefit obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase in discount rate (364) (379) Change in 2014 pension cost from a 25bps increase in discount rate (18) (17) Increase in defined benefit obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 207 174 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2013 amounted to US$542m (2012: US$439m). The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2013 was 1,525 (2012: 1,323). Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the Trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due. Directors’ emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 were: 2013 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fees 4,027 5,435 5,108 Salaries and other emoluments 9,488 10,316 12,906 Annual incentives 7,357 13,983 12,516 Total 20,872 29,734 30,530 Vesting of long-term incentive awards – 5,733 2,596 464 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,198,744 (2012: US$1,171,796). The provision at 31 December 2013 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$19,729,103 (2012: US$19,285,971). During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were nil (2012: US$29,078). Discretionary annual incentives for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration Committee. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 are included in the ‘Directors’ Remuneration Report’ on page 378 to 407. 8 Auditors’ remuneration 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Audit fees payable to KPMG1 43.4 47.2 48.8 Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities 1.1 1.4 1.9 Total auditors’ remuneration 44.5 48.6 50.7 1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit and audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation. The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Group’s principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates (together ‘KPMG’): Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit1 12.9 13.2 12.7 – relating to current year 12.6 12.8 12.4 – relating to prior year 0.3 0.4 0.3 Fees for other services provided to HSBC 67.5 67.3 74.4 Audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries2 30.5 34.0 36.1 Audit-related assurance services3 27.4 23.6 25.7 Taxation-related services: – taxation compliance services 1.3 2.1 2.8 – taxation advisory services 1.3 1.3 1.5 Other assurance services 0.5 1.1 1.3 Other non-audit services4 6.5 5.2 7.0 Total fees payable 80.4 80.5 87.1 1 Fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion. Until 2012, these fees were included in ‘Fees for other services provided to HSBC’. Comparative information has been updated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Fees for other services provided to HSBC’ and increased ‘Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit’ by US$10.5m in 2011. There was no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share following the change. 2 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBC’s subsidiaries. 3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews. 4 Including valuation and actuarial services, translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, review of financial models, advice on IT security and business continuity, corporate finance transactions and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures. No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, services related to litigation and recruitment and remuneration. 465 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG 2013 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes 379 256 248 Audit related assurance services 5 Taxation-related services – – 11 – taxation advisory services – – 11 Total fees payable 384 256 259 No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: audit related assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology. In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$5.3m (2012: US$3.3m; 2011: US$8.6m) by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing KPMG. These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC. Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group. 9 Tax Tax expense 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Current tax UK corporation tax (8 ) 250 820 – for this year 103 60 462 – adjustments in respect of prior years (111 ) 190 358 Overseas tax1 3,949 5,560 4,255 – for this year 3,947 5,421 4,155 – adjustments in respect of prior years 2 139 100 3,941 5,810 5,075 Deferred tax 824 (495 ) (1,147 ) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 739 (269 ) (1,178 ) Effect of changes in tax rates 93 66 (3 ) Adjustments in respect of prior years (8 ) (292 ) 34 Tax expense 4,765 5,315 3,928 1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,133m (2012: US$1,049m; 2011: US$997m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2012: 16.5%; 2011: 16.5%). Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate. 466 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs to the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2013 2012 2011 US$m % US$m % US$m % Profit before tax 22,565 20,649 21,872 Tax at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%; 2011: 26.5%) 5,246 23.25 5,057 24.5 5,796 26.5 Effect of differently taxed overseas profits (177 ) (0.8 ) (57 ) (0.3 ) (492 ) (2.2 ) Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities (117 ) (0.5 ) 37 0.2 495 2.3 Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised/(previously not recognised) 332 1.5 374 1.8 (923 ) (4.2 ) Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures (543 ) (2.4 ) (872 ) (4.3 ) (865 ) (4.0 ) Tax effect of disposal of Ping An (111 ) (0.5 ) (204 ) (1.0 ) – – Tax effect of reclassification of Industrial Bank (317 ) (1.4 ) – – – – Non-taxable income and gains (871 ) (3.9 ) (542 ) (2.6 ) (613 ) (2.8 ) Permanent disallowables 647 2.9 1,092 5.3 467 2.1 Change in tax rates 93 0.4 78 0.4 (3 ) – Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 551 2.4 581 2.8 267 1.2 Other items 32 0.1 (229 ) (1.1 ) (201 ) (0.9 ) Tax expense 4,765 21.1 5,315 25.7 3,928 18.0 The effective tax rate for the year was 21.1% compared with 25.7% for 2012. The effective tax rate for the year benefited from the non-taxable gain on the reclassification of Industrial Bank as a financial investment and the disposal of our operations in Panama and our investment in Ping An. The effective tax rate in 2012 was higher because of the non tax deductible effect of fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanction laws. The UK Government announced that the main rate of corporation tax for the year beginning 1 April 2013 will reduce from 24% to 23%, to be followed by a further 2% reduction to 21% for the year beginning 1 April 2014 and a 1% reduction to 20% for the year beginning 1 April 2015. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 23%, which was enacted through the 2012 Finance Act, and this resulted in a weighted average rate of 23.25% for 2013 (2012: 24.5%; 2011: 26.5%). The reductions to 21% and 20% that were announced in the 2012 Autumn Statement and 2013 Budget, respectively, became enacted through the 2013 Finance Act on 17 July 2013. It is not expected that the future rate reductions will have a significant effect on the Group. The Group’s legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the Group operates. The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters. Deferred taxation The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle on a net basis. The net deferred tax assets totalled US$6.5bn at 31 December 2013 (2012: US$6.5bn). The main items to note are: US The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the US was US$4.4bn (2012: US$4.6bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits of US$0.7bn (2012: nil), deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$1.2bn (2012: US$2.0bn) and other temporary differences of US$2.5bn (2012: US$2.6bn). Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, or if earlier, when the impaired loan is sold. The tax deduction is often in the period subsequent to that in which the 467 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC Holdings’ commitment to continue to retain sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets. Management projections of profits from the US operations are prepared for a ten year period and include assumptions about future house prices and US economic conditions, including unemployment levels. Management projections of profits from the US operations currently indicate that tax losses and tax credits will be fully recovered by 2017. The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances and other deductible temporary differences is projected to reduce over the ten year period. As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBC’s US operations, management’s analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support. The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to increase levels of taxable income. As financial performance in our US operations improves it is anticipated that projected future profits from US operations will be relied on in the evaluation of the recognition of the deferred tax asset in future periods. Brazil The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Brazil was US$1.0bn (2012: US$0.9bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses of US$0.1bn (2012: nil), deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.7bn (2012: US$0.9bn) and other temporary differences of US$0.2bn (2012: nil). Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. Management projections of profits from the Brazilian operations currently indicate that the tax losses will be fully recovered within the next five years and that the other temporary differences will be recovered within the next ten years. Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within two years of the accounting recognition. On the evidence available, including historic levels of profitability, management projections of income and the state of the Brazilian economy, it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets when deductible for tax purposes. Mexico The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Mexico was US$0.5bn (2012: US$0.6bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions for the loan portfolio. The annual deduction for loan impairment charges was historically capped under Mexican legislation at 2.5% of the average qualifying loan portfolio. The balance is carried forward to future years without expiry. Following the clarification of tax law by the Mexican fiscal authority during the second quarter of the year, which led to a write down of the deferred tax assets on loan impairments of US$0.3bn, management’s analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets now relies on the primary strategy of selling certain loan portfolios, the losses on which are deductible for tax in Mexico when sold. Any such deductions for tax would lead to the reversal of the carried forward loan impairment provision recognised for deferred tax purposes. On the evidence available, including historical and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, it is anticipated that the business will now realise these assets over a shorter period, within the next 6 years, than originally was the case under the previous strategy of projecting loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, which anticipated that the assets would be realised within the next 15 years. 468 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting balances within countries Retirement benefits Loan impairment provisions Unused tax losses and tax credits Accelerated capital allowances and assets leased to customers Available- for-sale investments Cash flow hedges Share- based payments Fee income Derivatives, FVOD1 and other investments Insurance technical provisions Expense provisions Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 Assets 469 3,912 617 473 – 285 305 – 1,530 – 1457 (22 ) 9,026 Liabilities – – – (226 ) (1,203 ) (44 ) – (105 ) (162 ) (815 ) – (10 ) (2,565 ) At 1 January 469 3,912 617 247 (1,203 ) 241 305 (105 ) 1,368 (815 ) 1,457 (32 ) 6,461 Acquisitions and disposals – – (9 ) – (3 ) 1 – – – – – (26 ) (37 ) Income statement (419 ) (985 ) 399 123 (53 ) (91 ) (49 ) 42 (165 ) (72 ) 47 399 (824 ) Other comprehensive income 169 – – – 1,026 38 – – (12 ) – – – 1,221 Equity – – – – – – (2 ) – – – – – (2 ) Foreign exchange and other adjustments 55 (90 ) (29 ) 35 (65 ) (2 ) (1 ) 4 (21 ) 47 (106 ) (100 ) (273 ) At 31 December 274 2,837 978 405 (298 ) 187 253 (59 ) 1,170 (840 ) 1,398 241 6,546 Assets 274 2,837 978 549 – 211 253 – 1,383 – 1,398 461 8,344 Liabilities – – – (144 ) (298 ) (24 ) – (59 ) (213 ) (840 ) – (220 ) (1,798 ) 2012 Assets 742 4,448 1,328 131 – 487 286 – 302 35 1,389 (17 ) 9,131 Liabilities (107 ) – – (595 ) (557 ) (137 ) – (737 ) (329 ) (627 ) (68 ) 234 (2,923 ) At 1 January 635 4,448 1,328 (464 ) (557 ) 350 286 (737 ) (27 ) (592 ) 1,321 217 6,208 Acquisitions and disposals – – – – – – – (2 ) (1 ) (4 ) 10 3 Income statement (313 ) (590 ) (692 ) 737 (270 ) (9 ) (52 ) 616 1,337 (214 ) 102 (157 ) 495 Other comprehensive income 174 – (33 ) – (395 ) (90 ) – – – – – – (344 ) Equity – – – – – – 45 – – – – – 45 Foreign exchange and other adjustments (27 ) 54 14 (26 ) 19 (10 ) 26 16 60 (8 ) 38 (102 ) 54 At 31 December 469 3,912 617 247 (1,203 ) 241 305 (105 ) 1,368 (815 ) 1,457 (32 ) 6,461 Assets 469 3,912 617 473 – 285 305 – 1,530 – 1457 (22 ) 9,026 Liabilities – – – (226 ) (1,203 ) (44 ) – (105 ) (162 ) (815 ) – (10 ) (2,565 ) 1 Fair value of own debt. 469 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) On 8 September 2013, the Mexican Government proposed a number of tax reforms that were approved by the Chamber of Senate on 31 October 2013 and published in the Official Gazette on 11 December 2013. The tax reforms include a new basis of tax deduction for loan impairment charges that will allow banks to recognise tax deductions as and when loans are written off the balance sheet. The reforms also brought in transitional rules to allow banks to continue to claim any unclaimed deductions with regard to the 2.5% pool as at 31 December 2013. These transitional rules are subject to further clarification by the Mexican fiscal authority. It is not expected that the tax reform will have a significant effect on the deferred tax assets held in HSBC’s operations in Mexico. There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in Mexico. UK The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the UK was US$0.4bn (2012: US$0.3bn). The deferred tax asset in respect of the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits reversed in full during the year (2012: US$0.3bn). The closing net deferred tax asset represents other temporary differences of US$0.4bn (2012: nil). On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability and management projections of future income it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to recover the net deferred tax asset within the next ten years. Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$22.0bn (2012: US$16.6bn). These amounts included unused state losses arising in our US operations of US$17.3bn (2012: US$12.6bn). Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$5.0bn (2012: US$3.9bn) had no expiry date, US$1.0bn (2012: US$0.3bn) was scheduled to expire within ten years and the remaining will expire after ten years. Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise. No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2013 and 2012 temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse. Deferred tax of US$20m (2012: US$269m) has, however, been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract withholding tax. HSBC Holdings Movement of deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances Short-termtimingdifferences Available-for-saleinvestments Fair valuedassets andliabilities Share-basedpayments Unusedtaxlosses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 At 1 January 2 – (31 ) 31 12 – 14 Income statement – 4 – (12 ) (1 ) – (9 ) Other comprehensive income – – 8 – – – 8 Equity – – – – – – – At 31 December 2 4 (23 ) 19 11 – 13 2012 At 1 January – – (4 ) 46 9 40 91 Income statement 2 – – (15 ) (7 ) (40 ) (60 ) Other comprehensive income – – (27 ) – – – (27 ) Equity – – – – 10 – 10 At 31 December 2 – (31 ) 31 12 – 14 The amount of unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$3,405m (2012: US$1,775m) of which US$9m (2012: US$9m) relate to capital losses. The losses have no expiry date. 470 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 10 Dividends Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 2013 2012 2011 PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m Dividends declared on ordinary shares In respect of previous year: – fourth interim dividend 0.18 3,339 540 0.14 2,535 259 0.12 2,119 1,130 In respect of current year: – first interim dividend 0.10 1,861 167 0.09 1,633 748 0.09 1,601 204 – second interim dividend 0.10 1,864 952 0.09 1,646 783 0.09 1,603 178 – third interim dividend 0.10 1,873 864 0.09 1,655 639 0.09 1,605 720 0.48 8,937 2,523 0.41 7,469 2,429 0.39 6,928 2,232 Quarterly dividends on preference shares classified as equity March dividend 15.50 22 15.50 22 15.50 22 June dividend 15.50 23 15.50 23 15.50 23 September dividend 15.50 22 15.50 22 15.50 22 December dividend 15.50 23 15.50 23 15.50 23 62.00 90 62.00 90 62.00 90 Quarterly coupons on capital securities classified as equity1 2013 2012 2011 Per share Total Per share Total Per share Total US$ US$m US$ US$m US$ US$m January coupon 0.508 44 0.508 44 0.508 44 March coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.500 76 April coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 June coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.500 76 July coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 September coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.500 76 October coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 December coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.500 76 4.032 483 4.032 483 4.032 483 1 HSBC Holdings issued Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities of US$3,800m in June 2010 and US$2,200m in April 2008 which are classified as equity under IFRSs. The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of US$0.19 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$3,578m. The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 30 April 2014 to holders of record on 13 March 2014 on the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register and 14 March 2014 on the Principal Register in the UK or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2013. On 15 January 2014, HSBC paid a further coupon on the capital securities of US$0.508 per security, a distribution of US$44m. No liability is recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 in respect of this coupon payment. 11 Earnings per share ‘Basic earnings per ordinary share’ is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. ‘Diluted earnings per ordinary share’ is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares. 471 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2013US$m 2012US$m 2011US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 16,204 14,027 16,797 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity (90 ) (90 ) (90 ) Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity (483 ) (483 ) (483 ) Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 15,631 13,454 16,224 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2013 2012 2011 ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) Per share US$ ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) PershareUS$ ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) PershareUS$ Basic1 15,631 18,530 0.84 13,454 18,125 0.74 16,224 17,700 0.92 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 124 146 222 – Savings-related Share Option Plan 36 23 45 – Other plans 88 123 177 Diluted1 15,631 18,654 0.84 13,454 18,271 0.74 16,224 17,922 0.91 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted). The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excluded 60m employee share options that were anti-dilutive (2012: 103m; 2011: 151m). 12 Segmental analysis HSBC’s operates a matrix management structure which includes geographical regions, global businesses and global functions. HSBC’s operating segments are Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa (‘MENA’), North America and Latin America. These geographical operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best evaluate the nature and financial effects of HSBC’s business activities and the economic environments in which it operates. Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board. Information provided to GMB to make decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, operating segments is measured in accordance with IFRSs. The financial information shown below includes the effects of intra-HSBC transactions between operating segments which are conducted on an arm’s length basis and are eliminated in arriving at the total. Shared costs are included in operating segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. Products and services HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its six geographical regions. The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business. • Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’) offers a broad range of products and services to meet the personal banking and wealth management needs of individual customers. Typically, customer offerings include personal banking products (current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services) and wealth management services (insurance and investment products, global asset management services and financial planning services). • Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and investments. CMB also offers its customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, for example Global 472 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Banking & Markets (‘GB&M’), which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services. • GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including financing, advisory and transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, money markets and securities services, and principal investment activities. • Global Private Banking (‘GPB’) provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with complex and international needs within the Group’s priority markets. Financial information In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders’ funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures. Profit/(loss) for the year EuropeUS$m Hong Kong US$m Rest of Asia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m North AmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m Intra- HSBC itemsUS$m Total US$m 2013 Net interest income 10,693 5,993 5,439 1,486 5,742 6,186 – 35,539 Net fee income 6,032 3,877 2,059 622 2,143 1,701 – 16,434 Net trading income/(expense) 4,423 1,570 456 357 948 936 – 8,690 Other income /(expense) (181 ) 1,763 4,024 38 (30 ) 1,745 (3,377 ) 3,982 Net operating income1 20,967 13,203 11,978 2,503 8,803 10,568 (3,377 ) 64,645 Loan impairment charges and othercredit risk provisions (1,530 ) (137 ) (361 ) 42 (1,197 ) (2,666 ) – (5,849 ) Net operating income 19,437 13,066 11,617 2,545 7,606 7,902 (3,377 ) 58,796 Employee compensation and benefits (7,175 ) (2,624 ) (3,042 ) (634 ) (3,098 ) (2,623 ) – (19,196 ) General and administrative expenses (9,479 ) (2,019 ) (2,390 ) (607 ) (3,051 ) (2,896 ) 3,377 (17,065 ) Depreciation and impairment ofproperty, plant and equipment (559 ) (225 ) (167 ) (35 ) (176 ) (202 ) – (1,364 ) Amortisation and impairment ofintangible assets (400 ) (177 ) (41 ) (13 ) (91 ) (209 ) – (931 ) Total operating expenses (17,613 ) (5,045 ) (5,640 ) (1,289 ) (6,416 ) (5,930 ) 3,377 (38,556 ) Operating profit 1,824 8,021 5,977 1,256 1,190 1,972 – 20,240 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 1 68 1,787 438 31 – – 2,325 Profit before tax 1,825 8,089 7,764 1,694 1,221 1,972 – 22,565 Tax expense (1,279 ) (1,312 ) (858 ) (328 ) (313 ) (675 ) – (4,765 ) Profit for the year 546 6,777 6,906 1,366 908 1,297 – 17,800 473 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Profit/(loss) for the year (continued) Europe US$m Hong Kong US$m Rest of Asia- Pacific US$m MENA US$m North America US$m Latin America US$m Intra- HSBC items US$m Total US$m 2012 Net interest income 10,394 5,316 5,391 1,470 8,117 6,984 – 37,672 Net fee income 6,169 3,335 2,083 595 2,513 1,735 – 16,430 Net trading income 2,707 1,463 1,053 390 507 971 – 7,091 Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An – – 3,012 – 4,012 – – 7,024 Other income/(expense) (1,662 ) 2,308 2,045 (25 ) (456 ) 1,261 (3,358 ) 113 Net operating income1 17,608 12,422 13,584 2,430 14,693 10,951 (3,358 ) 68,330 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,921 ) (74 ) (436 ) (286 ) (3,457 ) (2,137 ) – (8,311 ) Net operating income 15,687 12,348 13,148 2,144 11,236 8,814 (3,358 ) 60,019 Employee compensation and benefits (8,070 ) (2,572 ) (3,140 ) (652 ) (3,243 ) (2,814 ) – (20,491 ) General and administrative expenses (10,059 ) (1,860 ) (2,433 ) (459 ) (5,413 ) (3,117 ) 3,358 (19,983 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (597 ) (236 ) (191 ) (44 ) (195 ) (221 ) – (1,484 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (369 ) (180 ) (42 ) (11 ) (89 ) (278 ) – (969 ) Total operating expenses (19,095 ) (4,848 ) (5,806 ) (1,166 ) (8,940 ) (6,430 ) 3,358 (42,927 ) Operating profit/(loss) (3,408 ) 7,500 7,342 978 2,296 2,384 – 17,092 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures (6 ) 82 3,106 372 3 – – 3,557 Profit/(loss) before tax (3,414 ) 7,582 10,448 1,350 2,299 2,384 – 20,649 Tax expense (173 ) (1,095 ) (1,616 ) (254 ) (1,313 ) (864 ) – (5,315 ) Profit/(loss) for the year (3,587 ) 6,487 8,832 1,096 986 1,520 – 15,334 EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest of Asia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m North AmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m Intra- HSBC itemsUS$m TotalUS$m 2011 Net interest income 11,001 4,691 5,102 1,432 11,480 6,956 – 40,662 Net fee income 6,236 3,097 2,111 627 3,308 1,781 – 17,160 Net trading income/(expense) 2,161 1,189 1,658 482 (362 ) 1,378 – 6,506 Other income 4,848 1,705 1,842 66 1,574 1,338 (3,421 ) 7,952 Net operating income1 24,246 10,682 10,713 2,607 16,000 11,453 (3,421 ) 72,280 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (2,512 ) (156 ) (267 ) (293 ) (7,016 ) (1,883 ) – (12,127 ) Net operating income 21,734 10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570 (3,421 ) 60,153 Employee compensation and benefits (7,621 ) (2,610 ) (3,179 ) (659 ) (3,928 ) (3,169 ) – (21,166 ) General and administrative expenses (8,473 ) (1,724 ) (2,378 ) (458 ) (4,404 ) (3,443 ) 3,421 (17,459 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (581 ) (245 ) (198 ) (36 ) (261 ) (249 ) – (1,570 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (394 ) (179 ) (51 ) (6 ) (326 ) (394 ) – (1,350 ) Total operating expenses (17,069 ) (4,758 ) (5,806 ) (1,159 ) (8,919 ) (7,255 ) 3,421 (41,545 ) Operating profit 4,665 5,768 4,640 1,155 65 2,315 – 18,608 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 6 55 2,831 337 35 – – 3,264 Profit before tax 4,671 5,823 7,471 1,492 100 2,315 – 21,872 Tax income/(expense) (1,589 ) (1,043 ) (1,315 ) (266 ) 958 (673 ) – (3,928 ) Profit for the year 3,082 4,780 6,156 1,226 1,058 1,642 – 17,944 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 474 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other information about the profit/(loss) for the year EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest of Asia- Pacific US$m MENA US$m North AmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m Intra- HSBC items US$m Total US$m 2013 Net operating income1 20,967 13,203 11,978 2,503 8,803 10,568 (3,377 ) 64,645 External 20,108 12,031 10,822 2,497 8,569 10,618 – 64,645 Inter-segment 859 1,172 1,156 6 234 (50 ) (3,377 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 957 402 208 48 303 412 – 2,330 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 2,165 172 493 45 1,321 2,949 – 7,145 Impairment of financial investments (61 ) – 4 – 15 6 – (36 ) Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives (936 ) – (1 ) (3 ) (288 ) – – (1,228 ) Restructuring costs 211 5 74 3 100 42 – 435 2012 Net operating income1 17,608 12,422 13,584 2,430 14,693 10,951 (3,358 ) 68,330 External 16,405 11,307 12,586 2,455 14,566 11,011 – 68,330 Inter-segment 1,203 1,115 998 (25 ) 127 (60 ) (3,358 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 966 416 233 55 363 499 – 2,532 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 2,329 105 586 361 3,587 2,489 – 9,457 Impairment of financial investments 420 (21 ) 83 1 32 4 – 519 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives (3,091 ) – (4 ) (13 ) (1,219 ) – – (4,327 ) Restructuring costs 292 21 107 27 219 94 – 760 2011 Net operating income1 24,246 10,682 10,713 2,607 16,000 11,453 (3,421 ) 72,280 External 23,188 9,598 9,663 2,609 15,760 11,462 – 72,280 Inter-segment 1,058 1,084 1,050 (2 ) 240 (9 ) (3,421 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 975 424 249 42 802 643 – 3,135 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 3,085 202 453 395 7,147 2,271 – 13,553 Impairment of financial investments 705 55 25 13 9 1 – 808 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 3,180 – 4 10 967 – – 4,161 Restructuring costs 357 47 34 27 73 259 – 797 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 475 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Balance sheet information Europe Hong Kong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA North America Latin America Intra- HSBC items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Loans and advances to customers (net) 504,200 195,547 147,797 27,211 161,629 43,920 – 1,080,304 Interests in associates and joint ventures 169 275 13,547 2,575 74 – – 16,640 Total assets 1,392,959 555,413 335,937 60,810 432,035 113,999 (219,835 ) 2,671,318 Customer accounts 644,816 365,993 182,626 38,683 196,495 54,199 – 1,482,812 Total liabilities 1,326,537 523,579 306,918 50,706 393,635 99,319 (219,835 ) 2,480,859 Capital expenditure incurred1 907 1,124 112 32 265 385 – 2,825 At 31 December 2012 Loans and advances to customers (net) 463,440 173,613 138,119 28,086 140,756 53,609 – 997,623 Interests in associates and joint ventures 178 224 15,085 2,262 85 – – 17,834 Total assets 1,389,240 518,334 342,269 62,605 490,247 131,277 (241,434 ) 2,692,538 Customer accounts 555,009 346,208 183,621 39,583 149,037 66,556 – 1,340,014 Total liabilities 1,327,487 496,640 308,815 53,498 450,480 113,923 (241,434 ) 2,509,409 Capital expenditure incurred1 925 336 208 102 248 458 – 2,277 At 31 December 2011 Loans and advances to customers (net) 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 – 940,429 Interests in associates and joint ventures 150 196 17,916 2,036 101 – – 20,399 Total assets 1,281,945 473,024 317,816 57,464 504,302 144,889 (223,861 ) 2,555,579 Customer accounts 493,404 315,345 174,012 36,422 155,982 78,760 – 1,253,925 Total liabilities 1,224,386 458,179 288,485 49,005 464,990 128,302 (223,861 ) 2,389,486 Capital expenditure incurred1 1,177 432 207 29 342 951 – 3,138 1 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. Excludes assets acquired as part of business combinations and goodwill. 476 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other financial information Net operating income by global business RBWM CMB GB&M GPB Other1 Intra-HSBCitems Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 Net operating income2 26,740 16,365 19,176 2,439 5,651 (5,726 ) 64,645 External 25,038 17,241 20,767 1,955 (356 ) – 64,645 Internal 1,702 (876 ) (1,591 ) 484 6,007 (5,726 ) – 2012 Net operating income2 33,861 16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332 (5,859 ) 68,330 External 31,980 17,295 20,410 2,413 (3,768 ) – 68,330 Internal 1,881 (744 ) (2,137 ) 759 6,100 (5,859 ) – 2011 Net operating income2 33,533 15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145 (6,358 ) 72,280 External 32,024 15,362 19,881 2,207 2,806 – 72,280 Internal 1,509 249 (2,824 ) 1,085 6,339 (6,358 ) – 1 The main items reported in the ‘Other’ category are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, movements in fair value of own debt and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The ‘Other’ category also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units. 2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. Information by country 2013 2012 2011 External net operating income1,2US$m Non- current assets3US$m External net operating income1,2US$m Non- current assets3US$m External net operating income1,2US$m Non- current assets3US$m UK 13,347 17,481 9,149 18,391 16,058 21,414 Hong Kong 12,031 12,170 11,307 11,657 9,600 6,257 USA 6,121 4,189 11,779 6,718 12,972 3,830 France 3,111 11,565 2,881 11,074 2,747 10,790 Brazil 5,364 1,715 6,395 2,017 6,637 2,149 Other countries 24,671 27,879 26,819 30,078 24,266 31,590 64,645 74,999 68,330 79,935 72,280 76,030 1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. 2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 3 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures and certain other assets expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost. The summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading. 477 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis HSBC At 31 December 2013 Held fortradingUS$m Designatedat fair valueUS$m Held-to- maturity securitiesUS$m Available- for-sale securities US$m Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost US$m Derivativesdesignatedas fair valuehedginginstrumentsUS$m Derivativesdesignatedas cash flowhedginginstrumentsUS$m TotalUS$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 166,599 – – 166,599 Items in the course of collection from other banks – – – – 6,021 – – 6,021 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness – – – – 25,220 – – 25,220 Trading assets 303,192 – – – – – – 303,192 Financial assets designated at fair value – 38,430 – – – – – 38,430 Derivatives 277,709 – – – – 1,168 3,388 282,265 Loans and advances to banks – – – – 211,521 – – 211,521 Loans and advances to customers – – – – 1,080,304 – – 1,080,304 Financial investments – – 25,084 400,841 – – – 425,925 Assets held for sale 22 – 4 965 2,511 – – 3,502 Other assets – – – – 23,957 – – 23,957 Accrued income – – – – 10,176 – – 10,176 580,923 38,430 25,088 401,806 1,526,309 1,168 3,388 2,577,112 Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation – – – – 25,220 – – 25,220 Deposits by banks – – – – 129,212 – – 129,212 Customer accounts – – – – 1,482,812 – – 1,482,812 Items in the course of transmission to other banks – – – – 6,910 – – 6,910 Trading liabilities 207,025 – – – – – – 207,025 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 89,084 – – – – – 89,084 Derivatives 269,739 – – – – 2,889 1,656 274,284 Debt securities in issue – – – – 104,080 – – 104,080 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 1 – – – 2,764 – – 2,765 Other liabilities – – – – 28,925 – – 28,925 Accruals – – – – 14,568 – – 14,568 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 28,976 – – 28,976 476,765 89,084 – – 1,823,467 2,889 1,656 2,393,861 478 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC At 31 December 2012 Held fortrading Designatedat fair value Held-to-maturitysecurities Available-for-salesecurities Financialassets andliabilities atamortisedcost Derivativesdesignatedas fair valuehedginginstruments Derivativesdesignatedas cash flowhedginginstruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 141,532 – – 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks – – – – 7,303 – – 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness – – – – 22,743 – – 22,743 Trading assets 408,811 – – – – – – 408,811 Financial assets designated at fair value – 33,582 – – – – – 33,582 Derivatives 353,803 – – – – 199 3,448 357,450 Loans and advances to banks – – – – 152,546 – – 152,546 Loans and advances to customers – – – – 997,623 – – 997,623 Financial investments – – 23,413 397,688 – – – 421,101 Assets held for sale 9 72 – 10,700 7,341 – – 18,122 Other assets – – – – 23,584 – – 23,584 Accrued income – – – – 8,540 – – 8,540 762,623 33,654 23,413 408,388 1,361,212 199 3,448 2,592,937 Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation – – – – 22,742 – – 22,742 Deposits by banks – – – – 107,429 – – 107,429 Customer accounts – – – – 1,340,014 – – 1,340,014 Items in the course of transmission to other banks – – – – 7,138 – – 7,138 Trading liabilities 304,563 – – – – – – 304,563 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 87,720 – – – – – 87,720 Derivatives 352,195 – – – – 4,450 2,241 358,886 Debt securities in issue – – – – 119,461 – – 119,461 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 8 23 – – 3,772 – – 3,803 Other liabilities – – – – 32,417 – – 32,417 Accruals – – – – 11,663 – – 11,663 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 29,479 – – 29,479 656,766 87,743 – – 1,674,115 4,450 2,241 2,425,315 479 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Held fortrading Designatedat fair value Available-for-salesecurities Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand – – – 407 407 Derivatives 2,789 – – – 2,789 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings – – – 53,344 53,344 Financial investments – – 1,210 – 1,210 Other assets – – – 10 10 2,789 – 1,210 53,761 57,760 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings – – – 11,685 11,685 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 21,027 – – 21,027 Derivatives 704 – – – 704 Debt securities in issue – – – 2,791 2,791 Accruals – – – 1,169 1,169 Subordinated liabilities – – – 14,167 14,167 704 21,027 – 29,812 51,543 At 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand – – – 353 353 Derivatives 3,768 – – – 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings – – – 41,675 41,675 Financial investments – – 1,208 – 1,208 Other assets – – – 4 4 3,768 – 1,208 42,032 47,008 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings – – – 12,856 12,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 23,195 – – 23,195 Derivatives 760 – – – 760 Debt securities in issue – – – 2,691 2,691 Accruals – – – 605 605 Subordinated liabilities – – – 11,907 11,907 760 23,195 – 28,059 52,014 480 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 14 Trading assets 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Trading assets: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 201,492 305,312 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 101,700 103,499 303,192 408,811 Treasury and other eligible bills 21,584 26,282 Debt securities 141,644 144,677 Equity securities 63,891 41,634 Trading securities at fair value 227,119 212,593 Loans and advances to banks 27,885 78,271 Loans and advances to customers 48,188 117,947 303,192 408,811 Trading securities valued at fair value1 Fair value 2013 US$m 2012 US$m US Treasury and US Government agencies2 23,450 28,405 UK Government 11,591 11,688 Hong Kong Government 5,909 6,228 Other government 86,714 91,498 Asset-backed securities3 2,736 2,896 Corporate debt and other securities 32,828 30,244 Equity securities 63,891 41,634 227,119 212,593 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$22,989m (2012: US$20,274m), of which US$3,973m (2012: US$3,469m) are guaranteed by various governments. 2 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 3 Exclude asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. Trading securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible bills Debt securities Equity securities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value at 31 December 2013 Listed1 194 85,821 62,724 148,739 Unlisted2 21,390 55,823 1,167 78,380 21,584 141,644 63,891 227,119 Fair value at 31 December 2012 Listed1 606 82,732 39,945 123,283 Unlisted2 25,676 61,945 1,689 89,310 26,282 144,677 41,634 212,593 1 Included within listed investments are US$3,836m (2012: US$2,828m) of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong. 2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a liquid market. Loans and advances to banks held for trading 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Reverse repos1 2,940 45,015 Settlement accounts 7,572 6,324 Stock borrowing 2,323 5,361 Other 15,050 21,571 27,885 78,271 481 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Loans and advances to customers held for trading 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Reverse repos1 7,180 73,666 Settlement accounts 11,863 8,186 Stock borrowing 7,995 10,710 Other 21,150 25,385 48,188 117,947 1 In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages repo and reverse repo activities in the Credit and Rates businesses as set out on page 220. This led to a reduction in the amount of reverse repos classified as trading assets. 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value The accounting policies which determine the classification of financial instruments and the use of assumptions and estimation in valuing them are described on pages 432 to 450 and page 74. The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on the basis of the individual financial instrument. However, when HSBC manages a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, it measures the fair value of the group of financial instruments on a net basis, but presents the underlying financial assets and liabilities separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRSs offsetting criteria as described on page 442. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The following table sets out the financial instruments carried at fair value. Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation Valuation techniques Quoted market price Level 1 Using observable inputs Level 2 With significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Recurring fair value measurements At 31 December 2013 Assets Trading assets 182,721 115,124 5,347 303,192 Financial assets designated at fair value 30,173 7,649 608 38,430 Derivatives 2,539 277,224 2,502 282,265 Financial investments: available for sale 262,836 130,760 7,245 400,841 Liabilities Trading liabilities 88,935 110,576 7,514 207,025 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 10,482 78,602 – 89,084 Derivatives 4,508 267,441 2,335 274,284 At 31 December 2012 Assets Trading assets 198,843 205,590 4,378 408,811 Financial assets designated at fair value 25,575 7,594 413 33,582 Derivatives 1,431 352,960 3,059 357,450 Financial investments: available for sale 253,246 135,931 8,511 397,688 Liabilities Trading liabilities 116,550 180,543 7,470 304,563 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 10,703 77,017 – 87,720 Derivatives 1,506 354,375 3,005 358,886 The decrease in Level 2 trading assets and liabilities reflects the change in the way GB&M manages repo and reverse repo activities described on page 220. Movement in derivative balances is described in Note 18. 482 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Availablefor sale Held fortrading Designatedat fair value through profit or loss Derivatives Held fortrading Designated at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 110 24,140 – 18 35,274 – 17 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 1,275 1,264 423 – – – – Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period. Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 reflect the reclassification of settlement balances and cash collateral following reassessment of the application of levelling criteria to these balances. Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 related to increased liquidity in certain emerging market government bonds. Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk-taker. For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised. In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible. In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market information to validate the financial instrument’s fair value, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: • the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices; • the degree of similarity between financial instruments; • the degree of consistency between different sources; • the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data; • the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date; and • the manner in which the data was sourced. For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework may include, as applicable, development or validation by independent support functions of (i) the logic within valuation models; (ii) the inputs to those models; (iii) any adjustments required outside the valuation models; and (iv) where possible, model outputs. Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M. GB&M’s fair value governance structure is illustrated below as an example: 483 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Determination of fair value Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: • Level 1 – quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date. • Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable. • Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market. The fair values of financial instruments that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued. Where a financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market, the fair value of the total holding of the financial instrument is calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price. In the event that the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used. The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid/offer spreads. The bid/offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared with the price at which they would be willing to sell. In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the instrument requires additional work during the valuation process. Valuation techniques Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their valuations. A range of valuation techniques is employed, dependent on the instrument type and available market data. Most valuation techniques are based upon discounted cash flow analyses, in which expected future cash flows are calculated and discounted to present value using a discounting curve. Prior to considering credit risk, the expected future cash flows may be known, as would be the case for the fixed leg of an interest rate swap, or may be uncertain and require projection, as would be the case for the floating leg of an interest rate swap. ‘Projection’ utilises market forward curves, if available. In option models, the probability of different potential future outcomes must be considered. In addition, the value of some products are dependent on more than one market factor, and in these cases it will typically be necessary to consider how movements in one market factor may affect the other market factors. The model inputs necessary to perform such calculations include interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, correlations, prepayment and default rates. For interest rate derivatives with collateralised counterparties and in significant currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that reflects the overnight interest rate (‘OIS discounting’). The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental. An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s inception profit (‘day 1 gain or loss’) or greater than 5% of the instrument’s valuation is driven by unobservable inputs. ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for example, be used). All fair value adjustments are included within the levelling determination. In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned, where available. An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with interest rate derivatives. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar 484 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) securities for the same issuer. Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities. Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value. The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes. Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount. Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process. This process disaggregates changes in fair value into three high level categories; (i) portfolio changes, such as new transactions or maturing transactions, (ii) market movements, such as changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices, and (iii) other, such as changes in fair value adjustments, discussed below. Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered by a market participant which are not incorporated within the valuation model. HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments relate to GB&M. Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement. For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss. Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments At 31 December 2013 US$m At 31 December 2012 US$m Type of adjustment Risk-related 1,565 2,013 Bid-offer 561 638 Uncertainty 343 142 Credit valuation adjustment 1,274 1,747 Debit valuation adjustment (616 ) (518 ) Other 3 4 Model-related 202 162 Model limitation 199 161 Other 3 1 Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) (Note 18) 167 181 1,934 2,356 Fair value adjustments declined by US$422m during the year. The most significant movement was a decline of US$473m in respect of the credit valuation adjustment, as a result of both reduced derivative counterparty exposures and general narrowing of CDS spreads. Risk-related adjustments Bid-offer IFRS 13 requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value. Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position. 485 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and/or the choice of model itself may be more subjective. In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model. Credit valuation adjustment The credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions (see below). Debit valuation adjustment The debit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions (see below). Model-related adjustments Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture all material market characteristics. Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions. In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted. As model development progresses, model limitations are addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed. Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 433. An analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 501. Credit valuation adjustment/debit valuation adjustment methodology HSBC calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) and debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. The calculation of the monoline credit valuation adjustment is described on page 208. HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBC’s expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure. For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty. This incorporates a range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty over the life of the portfolio. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty. A standard loss given default (‘LGD’) assumption of 60% is generally adopted for developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures. Alternative loss given default assumptions may be adopted when both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this. For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts alternative methodologies. These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool or, where the mapping approach is not appropriate, using a simplified methodology which generally follows the same principles as the simulation methodology. The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than is used in the simulation methodology. 486 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk arises when the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default by the counterparty. When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within the valuation. With the exception of certain central clearing parties, HSBC includes all third-party counterparties in the CVA and DVA calculations and does not net these adjustments across Group entities. During the year, HSBC refined the methodologies used to calculate the CVA and DVA to more accurately reflect the impact of ratings downgrade triggers on credit mitigation. HSBC reviews and refines the CVA and DVA methodologies on an ongoing basis. Valuation of uncollateralised derivatives HSBC values uncollateralised derivatives by discounting expected future cash flows at a benchmark interest rate, typically Libor or its equivalent. This approach has historically been adopted across the industry, and has therefore been an appropriate basis for fair value. HSBC and other industry participants are currently considering whether this approach appropriately reflects the manner in which the derivatives are funded, which may occur at rates other than interbank offer rates. No consensus has yet emerged on how such funding should be reflected in the fair value measurement for uncollateralised derivatives. In the future, and possibly in 2014, HSBC may adopt a ‘funding fair value adjustment’ to reflect funding of uncollateralised derivatives at rates other than interbank offer rates. Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 Assets Liabilities Available for sale US$m Held for trading US$m At fair value1 US$m Deriv- atives US$m Total US$m Held for trading US$m At fair value1 US$m Deriv- atives US$m Total US$m At 31 December 2013 Private equity including strategic investments 3,729 103 420 – 4,252 – – – – Asset-backed securities 1,677 643 – – 2,320 – – – – Loans held for securitisation – 83 – – 83 – – – – Structured notes – 14 – – 14 7,514 – – 7,514 Derivatives with monolines – – – 320 320 – – – – Other derivatives – – – 2,182 2,182 – – 2,335 2,335 Other portfolios 1,839 4,504 188 – 6,531 – – – – 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 15,702 7,514 – 2,335 9,849 At 31 December 2012 Private equity including strategic investments 3,582 92 377 – 4,051 – – – – Asset-backed securities 2,288 652 – – 2,940 – – – – Loans held for securitisation – 547 – – 547 – – – – Structured notes – 23 – – 23 6,987 – – 6,987 Derivatives with monolines – – – 630 630 – – – – Other derivatives – – – 2,429 2,429 – – 3,005 3,005 Other portfolios 2,641 3,064 36 – 5,741 483 – – 483 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 16,361 7,470 – 3,005 10,475 1 Designated at fair value through profit or loss. Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses. Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain ‘other derivatives’ and all level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy. HSBC has the capability to hold these positions. Private equity and strategic investments HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership. 487 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required. For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature. Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and/or market data consensus providers when available. In the absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques. These techniques include discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities. Structured notes The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives. Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs principally comprised equity-linked structured notes which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios. The notes are classified as Level 3 due to the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Derivatives OTC (i.e. non-exchange traded) derivatives are valued using valuation models. Valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla derivative products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. The valuation of derivatives with monolines is discussed on page 208. Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions. Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives. Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions. Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 financial instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: 488 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Available for sale US$m Held for trading US$m Designated at fair value through profit or loss US$m Derivatives US$m Held for trading US$m Designated at fair value through profit or loss US$m Derivatives US$m At 1 January 2013 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss (52 ) 343 36 (205 ) (747 ) – 393 – trading income excluding net interest income – 343 – (205 ) (747 ) – 393 – net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value – – 36 – – – – – gains less losses from financial investments (66 ) – – – – – – – loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 14 – – – – – – Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income1 487 20 – (7 ) 9 – 57 – available-for-sale investments: fair value gains/(losses) 568 – – – – – – – cash flow hedges: fair value gains/(losses) – – – (11 ) – – – – exchange differences (81 ) 20 – 4 9 – 57 Purchases 1,838 1,293 56 – (482 ) – – New issuances – – – – 3,161 – – Sales (766 ) (1,821 ) (4 ) – (14 ) – – Settlements (756 ) (473 ) (27 ) (311 ) (1,150 ) – (1,004 ) Transfers out (3,121 ) (385 ) (68 ) (171 ) (1,051 ) – (160 ) Transfers in 1,104 1,992 202 137 318 – 44 At 31 December 2013 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 7,514 – 2,335 Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2013 (166 ) 362 41 (297 ) (401 ) – 72 – trading income excluding net interest income – 362 – (297 ) (401 ) – 72 – net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value – – 41 – – – – – loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (166 ) – – – – – – At 1 January 2012 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss (414 ) 356 10 (974 ) 319 – 10 Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income1 472 78 (32 ) 92 143 – 84 Purchases 1,738 942 113 – (368 ) – – New issuances – – – – 2,852 – – Sales (840 ) (1,408 ) (69 ) – – – – Settlements (367 ) (617 ) (25 ) (14 ) (1,604 ) – 18 Transfers out (2,944 ) (298 ) (350 ) (571 ) (1,901 ) (567 ) (291 ) Transfers in 1,745 545 50 77 202 – 55 At 31 December 2012 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2012 166 339 9 (1,294 ) 384 – (395 ) 1 Included in ‘Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains/(losses)’ and ‘Exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 489 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Purchases of Level 3 available-for-sale assets primarily reflect the acquisition of certain less liquid emerging market government and corporate debt. Transfers in of Level 3 available-for-sale securities reflect decreased confidence in the pricing of certain ABS assets. This is offset by transfers out reflecting increased confidence in the pricing of certain other ABS assets and increased liquidity in certain emerging market sovereign and corporate debt. Sales of Level 3 trading assets reflect the unwind of certain legacy monoline and structured credit exposures. New issuances of trading liabilities reflect structured note issuances, predominantly equity-linked notes. Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives The following table shows the sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in other comprehensive income Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m At 31 December 2013 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities1 350 (285 ) – – Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 32 (51 ) – – Financial investments: available for sale – – 434 (673 ) 382 (336 ) 434 (673 ) At 31 December 2012 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities1 465 (384 ) – – Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 41 (41 ) – – Financial investments: available for sale – – 680 (710 ) 506 (425 ) 680 (710 ) 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed. The decrease in the effect of favourable and unfavourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities reflects a reduction in exposures and reduced market data dispersion as market volatility generally declined over the year. The reduction in the effect of favourable changes in financial investments primarily reflects a decline in private equity, following a reassessment of potential upside. Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in other comprehensive income Favourable changesUS$m UnfavourablechangesUS$m Favourable changesUS$m Unfavourable changes US$m At 31 December 2013 Private equity including strategic investments 31 (61 ) 226 (436 ) Asset-backed securities 60 (27 ) 113 (99 ) Loans held for securitisation 3 (3 ) – – Structured notes 16 (9 ) – – Derivatives with monolines 25 (16 ) – – Other derivatives 212 (164 ) – – Other portfolios 35 (56 ) 95 (138 ) 382 (336 ) 434 (673 ) At 31 December 2012 Private equity including strategic investments 62 (62 ) 353 (353 ) Asset-backed securities 41 (27 ) 143 (139 ) Loans held for securitisation 3 (3 ) – – Structured notes 4 (5 ) – – Derivatives with monolines 36 (20 ) – – Other derivatives 320 (267 ) – – Other portfolios 40 (41 ) 184 (218 ) 506 (425 ) 680 (710 ) Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval. Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of 490 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) observable proxy and historical data. When the available data is not amenable to statistical analysis, the quantification of uncertainty is judgemental, but remains guided by the 95% confidence interval. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually. Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments The table below lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments, and provides the range of those inputs as at 31 December 2013. The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall. A further description of the categories of key unobservable inputs is given below. Private equity including strategic investments HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership. Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs. Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date. Prepayment rates are an important input into modelled values of ABSs. A modelled price may be used where insufficient observable market prices exist to enable a market price to be determined directly. Prepayment rates are also an important input into the valuation of derivatives linked to securitisations. For example, so-called securitisation swaps have a notional value that is linked to the size of the outstanding loan portfolio in a securitisation, which may fall as prepayments occur. Prepayment rates vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio, and expectations of future market conditions. For example, current prepayment rates in US residential mortgage-backed securities would generally be expected to rise as the US economy improves. Prepayment rates may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historic prepayment rates and macro-economic modelling. Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument for which specific market pricing is not available, but evidence is available in respect of instruments that have some characteristics in common. In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence. For example, in the collateralised loan obligation market it may be possible to establish that A-rated securities exhibit prices in a range, and to isolate key factors that influence position within the range. Application of this to a specific A-rated security within HSBC’s portfolio allows assignment of a price. The range of prices used as inputs into a market proxy pricing methodology may therefore be wide. This range is not indicative of the uncertainty associated with the price derived for an individual security. Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. Volatility tends to increase in stressed market conditions, and decrease in calmer market conditions. Volatility is an important input in the pricing of options. In general, the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be. This reflects both the higher probability of an increased return from the option, and the potentially higher costs that HSBC may incur in hedging the risks associated with the option. If option prices become more expensive, this will increase the value of HSBC’s long option positions (i.e. the positions in which HSBC has purchased options), while HSBC’s short option positions (i.e. the positions in which HSBC has sold options) will suffer losses. 491 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations Fair value Assets Liabilities Key unobservable Full range of inputs Core range of inputs US$m US$m Valuation technique inputs Lower Higher Lower Higher At 31 December 2013 Private equity including strategic investments 4,252 – See notes on page 491 See notes on page 491 n/a n/a n/a n/a Asset-backed securities 2,320 – CLO/CDO1 1,180 – Model –Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 0% 5% 0% 5% Market proxy Bid quotes 0 102 46 95 Other ABSs 1,140 – Loans held for securitisation 83 – Structured notes 14 7,514 Equity-linked notes – 5,750 Model – Option model Equity volatility 6% 73% 13% 39% Model – Option model Equity correlation 51% 59% 52% 57% Fund-linked notes – 717 Model – Option model Fund volatility 18% 22% 20% 21% FX-linked notes 14 662 Model – Option model FX volatility 0.1% 28% 5% 15% Other – 385 Derivatives with monolines 320 – Model – Discounted cash flow Credit spread 3% 5% 4% 5% Other derivatives 2,182 2,335 Interest rate derivatives: – securitisation swaps 275 1,127 Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 0% 22% 2% 20% – long-dated swaptions 655 185 Model – Option model IR volatility 3% 160% 13% 41% – other 540 265 FX derivatives: – FX options 114 151 Model – Option model FX volatility 0.1% 75% 7% 18% – other 69 51 Equity derivatives: – long-dated single stock options 218 247 Model – Option model Equity volatility 6% 73% 15% 36% – other 24 151 Credit derivatives: – other 287 158 Other portfolios 6,531 – Structured certificates 3,800 – Model –Discounted cash flow Credit volatility 1% 3% 1% 3% EM corporate debt 2,073 – Market proxy Credit spread 0.2% 17% 1% 7% Market proxy Bid quotes 57 141 100 134 Other2 658 – 15,702 9,849 1 Collateralised loan obligation/collateralised debt obligation. 2 Includes a range of smaller asset holdings. 492 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Volatility varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option. Volatility also varies over time. As a result, it is difficult to make general statements regarding volatility levels. For example, while it is generally the case that foreign exchange volatilities are lower than equity volatilities, there may be examples in particular currency pairs or for particular equities where this is not the case. Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable. The unobservable volatility is then estimated from observable data. For example, longer-dated volatilities may be extrapolated from shorter-dated volatilities. The range of unobservable volatilities quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price. For example, foreign exchange volatilities for a pegged currency may be very low, whereas for non-managed currencies the foreign exchange volatility may be higher. As a further example, volatilities for deep-in-the-money or deep-out-of-the-money equity options may be significantly higher than at-the-money options. The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio. For any single unobservable volatility, the uncertainty in the volatility determination is significantly less than the range quoted above. Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices. Correlation is a number between minus one and one. A positive correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in the same direction, with a correlation of one implying that they always move in the same direction. A negative correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in opposite directions, with a correlation of minus one implying that the two market prices always move in opposite directions. Correlation is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price. For example, an equity basket option has a payout that is dependent upon the performance of a basket of single stocks, and the correlation between the price movements of those stocks will be an input to the valuation. This is referred to as equity-equity correlation. There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations (e.g. equity-equity correlation) and cross-asset correlations (e.g. foreign exchange rate-interest rate correlation) used. In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations. Correlation may be unobservable. Unobservable correlations may be estimated on the basis of a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships. The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair. For any single unobservable correlation, the uncertainty in the correlation determination is likely to be less than the range quoted above. Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality. In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset. Credit spreads may be implied from market prices. Credit spreads may not be observable in more illiquid markets. Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other. As described above, market variables may be correlated. This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events. For example, improving economic conditions may lead to a ‘risk on’ market, in which prices of risky assets such as equities and high yield bonds rise, while ‘safe haven’ assets such as gold and US Treasuries decline. Furthermore, the impact of changing market variables upon the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBC’s net risk position in respect of each variable. For example, increasing high-yield bond prices will benefit long high-yield bond positions, but the value of any credit derivative protection held against these bonds will fall. 493 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements: Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets Derivatives 2,789 3,768 Available for sale 1,210 1,208 Liabilities Designated at fair value 21,027 23,195 Derivatives 704 760 Financial instruments measured at fair value – Level 3 Financial instruments measured using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) comprised fixed-rate preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings. The unobservable elements of the valuation technique included the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions. Movement in Level 3 financial instruments available for sale 2013US$m 2012US$m At 1 January – 1,078 Total gains or losses: – recognised in profit or loss – – – recognised in other comprehensive income – 130 Settlements – – Transfers out – (1,208 ) At 31 December – – Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 December – – 494 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. Fair values of financial instruments which are not carried at fair value and bases of valuation At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Fair value Valuation techniques Carrying amount US$m Quoted market price Level 1 US$m Using observable inputs Level 2 US$m With significant unobserv- able inputs Level 3 US$m Total US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Assets and liabilities not held for sale Assets Loans and advances to banks 211,521 – 201,643 9,858 211,501 152,546 152,823 Loans and advances to customers1 1,080,304 – 98,932 971,555 1,070,487 997,623 973,741 Financial investments: debt securities 25,084 1,432 23,960 25 25,417 23,413 25,458 Liabilities Deposits by banks 129,212 – 129,144 52 129,196 107,429 107,392 Customer accounts 1,482,812 – 1,467,812 14,622 1,482,434 1,340,014 1,340,521 Debt securities in issue 104,080 166 101,551 2,941 104,658 119,461 120,779 Subordinated liabilities 28,976 – 29,704 1,309 31,013 29,479 32,159 Loans and advances and customer accounts held for sale2 Loans and advances to banks and customers 1,973 – 249 1,731 1,980 6,632 6,387 Customer accounts 2,187 – 2,186 – 2,186 2,990 2,990 1 Level 2 fair value amounts primarily include reverse repos. 2 Including financial instruments within disposal groups held for sale. Fair values are determined according to the hierarchy set out in Note 15. The following is a list of financial instruments whose carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: Assets Cash and balances at central banks Items in the course of collection from other banks Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness Endorsements and acceptances Short-term receivables within ‘Other assets’ Liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation Items in the course of transmission to other banks Investment contracts with discretionary participation features within ‘Liabilities under insurance contracts’ Endorsements and acceptances Short-term payables within ‘Other liabilities’ 495 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Carrying amount and fair value of loans and advances to customers by industry sector Carrying amount at 31 December Not impairedUS$m Impaired US$m Impairment allowances1 US$m Total US$m 2013 Loans and advances to customers 1,059,019 36,428 (15,143 ) 1,080,304 – personal 391,930 18,798 (6,602 ) 404,126 – corporate and commercial 529,661 16,877 (8,059 ) 538,479 – financial 137,428 753 (482 ) 137,699 2012 Loans and advances to customers 975,064 38,671 (16,112 ) 997,623 – personal 391,342 23,751 (8,212 ) 406,881 – corporate and commercial 503,291 14,093 (7,346 ) 510,038 – financial 80,431 827 (554 ) 80,704 Fair value at 31 December Not impaired US$m Impaired US$m Total US$m 2013 Loans and advances to customers 1,045,900 24,587 1,070,487 – personal 379,353 13,774 393,127 – corporate and commercial 529,586 10,340 539,926 – financial 136,961 473 137,434 2012 Loans and advances to customers 948,822 24,919 973,741 – personal 369,692 15,369 385,061 – corporate and commercial 499,261 9,158 508,419 – financial 79,869 392 80,261 1 Impairment allowances relate to both impaired and not impaired loans and advances. Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Carrying amountUS$m Fair valueUS$m Carrying amountUS$m Fair valueUS$m Loans and advances to customers Europe 504,201 501,422 463,440 453,382 Hong Kong 195,549 194,081 173,613 171,926 Rest of Asia-Pacific 147,796 147,488 138,119 138,015 Middle East and North Africa 27,211 26,891 28,086 27,954 North America 161,629 156,500 140,756 128,637 Latin America 43,918 44,105 53,609 53,827 1,080,304 1,070,487 997,623 973,741 Valuation The fair value measurement is HSBC’s estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments’ cash flows over their expected future lives. Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available. The fair values of loans and advances to customers in the US are substantially lower than their carrying amount, reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date. The secondary market demand and estimated value for US loans and advances have been heavily influenced by the challenging economic conditions during the past number of years, including house price depreciation, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, changes in discount rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of loans and advances. Many investors are non-bank financial institutions or hedge funds with high equity levels and a high cost of debt. For certain consumer loans, investors take a more conservative view of future performance than HSBC. As a result, third parties are likely to assume higher charge-off levels and/or slower voluntary prepayment speeds than HSBC believes will ultimately be the case. The investor discount rates reflect this difference in the overall cost of capital as well as the potential 496 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) volatility in the underlying cash flow assumptions, the combination of which may yield a significant pricing discount from HSBC’s intrinsic value. The relative fair value of loans and advances to customers increased during 2013 largely due to improved conditions in the housing industry driven by increased property values and, to a lesser extent, lower required market yields and increased investor demand for these types of loans and advances. The fair value of loans and advances to customers has improved in Europe relative to carrying amounts, primarily in the UK mortgage market where increased competition and Central Bank policies to stimulate lending have reduced interest rates and increased fair values accordingly. The overall improvement in fair value has also benefited from higher valuations of ABSs classified as loans and advances following improved market appetite for such securities. The fair values of loans and advances to customers in Latin America are higher than their carrying amount, primarily driven by mortgages where the market interest rate remains below the historic average. Fair values of the following assets and liabilities are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as described below: Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available. In the absence of observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using valuation models that incorporate a range of input assumptions. These assumptions may include value estimates from third party brokers which reflect over-the-counter trading activity, forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions which HSBC believes are consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans, and trading inputs from other market participants which includes observed primary and secondary trades. Loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous groups and stratified by loans with similar characteristics to improve the accuracy of estimated valuation outputs. The stratification of a loan book considers all material factors including vintage, origination period, estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, loan-to-value ratios, the quality of collateral, default probability, and internal credit risk ratings. Valuation techniques are calibrated on a regular basis and tested for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or are based on any available observable market data. The fair value of a loan reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date. Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities. Deposits by banks and customer accounts For the purpose of estimating fair value, deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by remaining contractual maturity. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities. The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is approximated by its carrying value. Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments. The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments. In many cases, it would not be possible to realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size of the portfolios measured. Accordingly, these fair values do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern. 497 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above. The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet: Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Carrying amountUS$m Fair value1 US$m Carrying amountUS$m Fair value US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 53,344 55,332 41,675 42,843 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 11,685 11,868 12,856 13,133 Debt securities in issue 2,791 3,124 2,691 3,188 Subordinated liabilities 14,167 16,633 11,907 14,865 1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2). 17 Financial assets designated at fair value At 31 December 2013US$m 2012US$m Financial assets designated at fair value: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 38,062 33,562 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 368 20 38,430 33,582 Treasury and other eligible bills 50 54 Debt securities 12,589 12,551 Equity securities 25,711 20,868 Securities designated at fair value 38,350 33,473 Loans and advances to banks 76 55 Loans and advances to customers 4 54 38,430 33,582 Securities designated at fair value1 At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012US$m Fair value US Treasury and US Government agencies2 34 37 UK Government 534 625 Hong Kong Government 113 135 Other government 4,097 4,508 Asset-backed securities3 140 158 Corporate debt and other securities 7,721 7,142 Equities 25,711 20,868 38,350 33,473 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$4,419m (2012: US$3,509m), of which US$92m (2012: US$5m) are guaranteed by various governments. 2 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 3 Exclude asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 498 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible bills Debt securities Equitysecurities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value at 31 December 2013 Listed1 – 2,773 18,235 21,008 Unlisted 50 9,816 7,476 17,342 50 12,589 25,711 38,350 Fair value at 31 December 2012 Listed1 – 3,007 14,063 17,070 Unlisted 54 9,544 6,805 16,403 54 12,551 20,868 33,473 1 Included within listed investments are US$1,148m of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong (2012: US$931m). 18 Derivatives Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Assets Liabilities TradingUS$m HedgingUS$m TotalUS$m TradingUS$m HedgingUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2013 Foreign exchange 78,652 2,262 80,914 75,350 448 75,798 Interest rate 456,282 2,294 458,576 448,434 4,097 452,531 Equity 18,389 – 18,389 22,573 – 22,573 Credit 9,092 – 9,092 8,926 – 8,926 Commodity and other 2,624 – 2,624 1,786 – 1,786 Gross total fair values 565,039 4,556 569,595 557,069 4,545 561,614 Offset (287,330 ) (287,330 ) Total 282,265 274,284 At 31 December 2012 Foreign exchange 68,277 1,227 69,504 70,944 239 71,183 Interest rate 628,162 2,417 630,579 618,808 6,491 625,299 Equity 15,413 – 15,413 19,889 – 19,889 Credit 12,740 – 12,740 13,508 – 13,508 Commodity and other 1,443 – 1,443 1,236 – 1,236 Gross total fair values 726,035 3,644 729,679 724,385 6,730 731,115 Offset (372,229 ) (372,229 ) Total 357,450 358,886 Derivative assets and liabilities decreased during the year, driven by a decrease in the fair value of interest rate derivatives as yield curves in major currencies steepened. This resulted in the decrease in gross fair values and a commensurate decrease in the offset amount. 499 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries Assets Liabilities Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Foreign exchange 1,774 45 1,819 471 – 471 Interest rate 955 15 970 233 – 233 2,729 60 2,789 704 – 704 At 31 December 2012 Foreign exchange 1,636 – 1,636 760 – 760 Interest rate 2,132 – 2,132 – – – 3,768 – 3,768 760 – 760 Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices. Derivatives enable users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks. Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities. A description of how the fair value of derivatives is derived is set out on page 488. Derivative assets and liabilities are only offset and reported net in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis. Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks. Derivatives (except for derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39) are held for trading. Within the held-for-trading classification are two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting. The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. These activities are described more fully below. HSBC’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels. When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management framework to assess and approve potential credit exposures that it uses for traditional lending. Trading derivatives Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities include market-making and risk management. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume. Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client margin. Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness. Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Trading derivatives also include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in ‘Net trading income’ except for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items. Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt. Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value. 500 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. The 23% increase in the notional contract amounts of HSBC’s derivatives during 2013 was primarily driven by an increase in the trading volumes of interest rate contracts. Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type HSBC HSBC Holdings At 31 December2013 US$m At 31 December2012 US$m At 31 December2013 US$m At 31 December2012 US$m Foreign exchange 5,264,978 4,435,729 17,280 17,576 Interest rate 27,056,367 21,355,749 10,304 11,554 Equity 589,903 495,668 – – Credit 678,256 901,507 – – Commodity and other 77,842 80,219 – – 33,667,346 27,268,872 27,584 29,130 Credit derivatives HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring transactions to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products. Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties. HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty. Trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products. Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Group’s loan portfolios. The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$678bn (2012: US$902bn) consisted of protection bought of US$339bn (2012: US$446bn) and protection sold of US$339bn (2012: US$455bn). The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described on page 281. Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition (the transaction price) and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2013 US$m 2012US$m Unamortised balance at 1 January 181 200 Deferral on new transactions 206 149 Recognised in the income statement during the period: – amortisation (105 ) (112 ) – subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable (39 ) (1 ) – maturity, termination or offsetting derivative (77 ) (46 ) – risk hedged – (11 ) Exchange differences 1 2 Unamortised balance at 31 December1 167 181 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement. 501 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Hedge accounting derivatives HSBC uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps) for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and liability portfolios and structural positions. This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities. The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of hedge transactions. Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investment in foreign operations. These are described under the relevant headings below. The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes by product type At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Cash flowhedge US$m Fair valuehedge US$m Cash flowhedge US$m Fair valuehedge US$m HSBC Foreign exchange 25,799 226 16,716 112 Interest rate 201,197 90,354 182,688 75,505 226,996 90,580 199,404 75,617 Fair value hedge at 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m HSBC Holdings Foreign exchange 1,120 – Interest rate 1,977 – 3,097 – Fair value hedges HSBC’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates. For fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement. If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income statement as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period. Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 AssetsUS$m LiabilitiesUS$m AssetsUS$m LiabilitiesUS$m HSBC Foreign exchange 5 – – – Interest rate 1,163 2,889 199 4,450 1,168 2,889 199 4,450 HSBC Holdings Foreign exchange 45 – – – Interest rate 15 – – – 60 – – – 502 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC Gains/(losses): – on hedging instruments 1,997 (898 ) (4,082 ) – on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (1,932 ) 871 3,858 65 (27 ) (224 ) HSBC Holdings Gains/(losses): – on hedging instruments 14 – – – on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (21 ) – – (7 ) – – The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. Cash flow hedges HSBC’s cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions. Gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income statement. Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 AssetsUS$m LiabilitiesUS$m AssetsUS$m LiabilitiesUS$m Foreign exchange 2,257 439 1,230 200 Interest rate 1,131 1,208 2,218 2,041 3,388 1,647 3,448 2,241 Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 3 monthsor less US$m More than 3months but lessthan 1 yearUS$m 5 years or lessbut more than1 yearUS$m More than5 years US$m At 31 December 2013 Assets 135,857 124,670 89,405 2,156 Liabilities (60,402 ) (46,990 ) (38,406 ) (10,221 ) Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure 75,455 77,680 50,999 (8,065 ) At 31 December 2012 Assets 112,846 93,072 72,557 5,055 Liabilities (68,534 ) (43,800 ) (29,401 ) (4,777 ) Net cash inflows exposure 44,312 49,272 43,156 278 This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items. 503 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. During the year to 31 December 2013 a gain of US$22m (2012: gain of US$35m; 2011: gain of US$26m) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments. Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings. At 31 December 2013, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of US$4m (2012: US$3m), liabilities of US$23m (2012: US$50m) and notional contract values of US$2,840m (2012: US$2,654m). The ineffectiveness recognised in ‘Net trading income’ in the year ended 31 December 2013 that arose from hedges in foreign operations was nil (2012 and 2011: nil). 19 Financial investments At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Financial investments: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 394,207 399,613 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 31,718 21,488 425,925 421,101 Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 CarryingamountUS$m Fair value US$m CarryingamountUS$m Fair value US$m Treasury and other eligible bills 78,111 78,111 87,550 87,550 – available for sale 78,111 78,111 87,550 87,550 Debt securities 338,674 339,007 327,762 329,807 – available for sale 313,590 313,590 304,349 304,349 – held to maturity 25,084 25,417 23,413 25,458 Equity securities 9,140 9,140 5,789 5,789 – available for sale 9,140 9,140 5,789 5,789 Total financial investments 425,925 426,258 421,101 423,146 Financial investments at amortised cost and fair value Amortised cost1 US$m Fair value2US$m At 31 December 2013 US Treasury 50,369 50,421 US Government agencies3 19,211 18,771 US Government sponsored entities3 5,263 5,445 UK Government 23,565 23,580 Hong Kong Government 49,570 49,579 Other government 153,619 156,208 Asset-backed securities4 25,961 24,115 Corporate debt and other securities 87,469 88,999 Equities 8,081 9,140 423,108 426,258 504 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Amortised cost1 US$m Fair value2US$m At 31 December 2012 US Treasury 60,657 61,925 US Government agencies3 22,579 23,500 US Government sponsored entities3 5,262 5,907 UK Government 17,018 17,940 Hong Kong Government 42,687 42,711 Other government 146,507 149,179 Asset-backed securities4 29,960 26,418 Corporate debt and other securities 86,099 89,777 Equities 4,284 5,789 415,053 423,146 At 31 December 2011 US Treasury 43,848 45,283 US Government agencies3 25,079 26,093 US Government sponsored entities3 4,425 5,056 UK Government 32,165 33,603 Hong Kong Government 33,359 33,374 Other government 125,623 127,049 Asset-backed securities4 35,096 28,625 Corporate debt and other securities 94,110 95,233 Equities 5,122 7,210 398,827 401,526 1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment. 2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$55,303m (2012: US$59,908m; 2011: US$68,334m;), of which US$8,946m (2012: US$6,916m; 2011: US$17,079m) are guaranteed by various governments. The fair value of the debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$55,467m (2012: US$60,616m; 2011: US$68,765m). 3 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 4 Exclude asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities. Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible billsavailablefor saleUS$m Debt securities available for saleUS$m Debt securities held to maturityUS$m Equity securitiesavailablefor saleUS$m TotalUS$m Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 Listed1 1,404 134,473 6,176 3,950 146,003 Unlisted2 76,707 179,117 18,908 5,190 279,922 78,111 313,590 25,084 9,140 425,925 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 Listed1 3,284 113,399 5,599 536 122,818 Unlisted2 84,266 190,950 17,814 5,253 298,283 87,550 304,349 23,413 5,789 421,101 1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2013 was US$6,281m (2012: US$6,123m). Included within listed investments were US$2,832m (2012: US$3,512m) of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong. 2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a liquid market. 505 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Remaining contractual maturity of total debt securities: 1 year or less 81,215 67,268 5 years or less but over 1 year 154,580 157,075 10 years or less but over 5 years 50,998 47,123 Over 10 years 51,881 56,296 338,674 327,762 Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities available for sale: 1 year or less 78,222 65,500 5 years or less but over 1 year 146,200 149,195 10 years or less but over 5 years 44,556 39,498 Over 10 years 44,612 50,156 313,590 304,349 Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities held to maturity: 1 year or less 2,993 1,768 5 years or less but over 1 year 8,380 7,880 10 years or less but over 5 years 6,442 7,625 Over 10 years 7,269 6,140 25,084 23,413 Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities at 31 December 2013 Within one year After one year butwithin five years After five years butwithin ten years After ten years Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % Available for sale US Treasury 11,876 0.3 29,185 0.7 5,871 2.2 1,991 4.1 US Government agencies – – 46 2.1 98 2.1 18,802 2.6 US Government-sponsored agencies 50 0.4 821 2.3 2,773 3.3 775 3.8 UK Government – – 12,129 3.6 10,165 7.2 644 5.1 Hong Kong Government 773 1.8 109 0.7 – – – – Other governments 49,919 2.5 63,276 3.2 10,212 5.1 2,432 5.2 Asset-backed securities 72 1.7 1,681 2.4 6,666 0.7 17,524 0.8 Corporate debt and other securities 15,244 2.9 36,703 2.0 8,136 2.0 4,249 3.3 Total amortised cost 77,934 143,950 43,921 46,417 Total carrying value 78,222 146,200 44,556 44,612 Held to maturity US Treasury 1 4.0 55 4.8 59 4.8 109 4.2 US Government agencies – – 1 7.6 2 7.7 262 6.5 US Government-sponsored agencies 1 8.0 1 6.9 2 8.0 843 6.1 Hong Kong Government – – 30 0.4 28 2.7 2 1.2 Other governments 267 4.1 317 4.5 278 4.9 661 4.8 Asset-backed securities – – – – – – 18 6.2 Corporate debt and other securities 2,724 3.9 7,976 3.7 6,073 4.1 5,374 4.1 Total amortised cost 2,993 8,380 6,442 7,269 Total carrying value 2,993 8,380 6,442 7,269 The maturity distributions of asset-backed securities are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2013 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives. 20 Transfers of financial assets HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties including structured entities (‘SEs’). Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in these financial assets being derecognised or continuing to be recognised. 506 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) • Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The risks include credit, interest rate, foreign currency, prepayment and other price risks. • Derecognition does not occur when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, but either: (i) retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset; or (ii) neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership but has retained control of the financial asset. In this situation, the financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement. The majority of transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are (i) debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or (ii) equity securities lent under securities lending agreements. As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings the asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and the related liability reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for a fixed price at a future date is recognised in deposits from banks or customers as appropriate. As a result of these transactions, the Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction. The Group remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments. The counterparty’s recourse is not limited to the transferred assets. Other transactions that do not qualify for full derecognition include other sales where the counterparty’s recourse is only to the transferred asset. ‘Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only)’ in the table below includes a Canadian government sponsored securitisation programme, where HSBC Bank Canada assigns ownership and its right to sell or pledge residential mortgages. HSBC Bank Canada remains exposed to credit and interest rate risk on the assigned residential mortgages, which continue to be recorded as loans and advances. Third party funds received by HSBC Bank Canada under the programme are accounted for as secured borrowings and presented as debt securities in issue on the consolidated balance sheet. In a small number of securitisation transactions, HSBC has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred assets, and has retained control of the transferred assets. Circumstances in which HSBC has continuing involvement in the transferred assets may include retention of servicing rights over the transferred assets, entering into a derivative transaction with the securitisation vehicle or retaining an interest in the securitisation vehicle. Where HSBC has continuing involvement it continues to recognise the transferred assets to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability. The net carrying amount of the transferred assets and associated liabilities reflects the rights and obligations that HSBC has retained. The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated financial liabilities, including those that are recognised to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement and the associated liabilities. Financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying amount of assets before transfer Carrying amount of transferred assets Carrying amount of associated liabilities Fair value of transferred assets Fair value of associated liabilities Net position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Repurchase agreements 125,508 126,175 Securities lending agreements 9,175 8,884 Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only) 6,707 7,019 6,827 6,707 120 Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement 17,427 16 8 16 8 8 At 31 December 2012 Repurchase agreements 122,130 121,589 Securities lending agreements 5,891 5,820 Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only) 9,727 9,733 9,767 9,856 (89 ) Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement 17,427 12 6 12 6 6 507 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Financial assets qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities by type of continuing involvement At 31 December For the year Carrying amount Gain or Income/ of continuing Fair value of loss Income/ (expenses) involvement in continuing Maximum recognised (expenses) recognised the balance sheet involvement exposure at transfer recognised cumulat- Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities to loss date in year ively US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest in structured entities 2013 305 – 307 – 305 10 8 68 2012 393 – 354 – 393 10 8 58 The assets in the table above represent our continuing involvement in securitisations where HSBC has transferred assets to an unconsolidated SE, but has retained some of the notes issued by the SE. These notes are reported in loans and advances to customers. The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the notes. 21 Interests in associates and joint ventures Associates At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in associates was US$16,417m (2012: US$17,523m). Principal associates of HSBC At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 CarryingamountUS$m Fair value1US$m CarryingamountUS$m Fair value1US$m Listed Bank of Communications Co., Limited 13,412 9,954 11,770 10,633 Industrial Bank Co., Limited – – 2,851 3,665 The Saudi British Bank 2,437 4,693 2,135 3,189 15,849 14,647 16,756 17,487 1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges. The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held (Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy). At 31 December 2013 Country of incorporation and principal place of business Principal activity HSBC’s interest in equity capital Issued equity capital Bank of Communications Co., Limited PRC 1 Banking services 19.03% RMB74,263m The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00% SR10,000m 1 People’s Republic of China. Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. HSBC had US$13,412m (2012: US$11,770m) of interests in associates listed in Hong Kong. HSBC’s interest in Industrial Bank Co., Limited (‘Industrial Bank’) was equity accounted with effect from May 2004. HSBC’s significant influence was established as a result of representation on Industrial Bank’s Board of Directors. In January 2013, Industrial Bank completed a private placement of additional share capital to a number of third parties which diluted HSBC’s equity holding from 12.8% to 10.9%. As a result of this and other factors, HSBC is no longer in a position to exercise significant influence over Industrial Bank and ceased to account for the interest as an associate from that date, giving rise to a gain of US$1.1bn recognised in other operating income. Thereafter, the holding was recognised as an available-for-sale financial investment. 508 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) HSBC’s investment in BoCom was equity accounted with effect from August 2004. HSBC’s significant influence in BoCom was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors and, in accordance with the Technical Cooperation and Exchange Programme, HSBC is assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to assist in this process. Impairment testing As at 31 December 2013, the fair value of HSBC’s investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 20 months, apart from a short period in 2013. As a result, we performed an impairment test on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom. The test confirmed that there was no impairment as at 31 December 2013. Basis of recoverable amount The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value-in-use (‘VIU’) calculation, with its carrying amount. The VIU calculation used discounted cash flow projections based on management’s estimates. Cash flows beyond the short to medium-term were then extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate. Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom. The projected values are particularly sensitive to the following key assumptions. Key assumptions in VIU calculation Long-term growth rate: the growth rate is 5% for periods after 2018 and does not exceed forecast GDP growth in China. Discount rate: the discount rate of 13% is derived from a range of values obtained by applying a Capital Asset Pricing Model (‘CAPM’) calculation for BoCom, using market data. Management supplements this by comparing the rates derived from the CAPM with discount rates available from external sources, and HSBC’s discount rate for evaluating investments in mainland China. The discount rate used is within the range of 10.5% to 15% indicated by the CAPM and external sources. Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: the ratio used increases from 0.64% to 1% in the short to medium term. The long-term ratio is assumed to revert to a historical rate of 0.64%. The rates are within the medium-term range forecast of 0.55% and 1.20% used by external analysts. Management’s judgement in estimating the VIU In 2013, the impairment testing model for BoCom was changed to reflect the expected regulatory impact on cash flow projections. The changes reduced the projected available cash flows by including a regulatory cap on the loan-to-deposit ratio and by retaining a proportion of cash flows to maintain capital ratio requirements above the expected regulatory minima. If these changes had been made as at 31 December 2012, the VIU would still have been above the carrying amount as at that date. VIU was US$14bn, or US$0.6bn (‘headroom’) in excess of the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom of US$13.4bn as at 31 December 2013. The carrying amount increased by US$1.6bn during 2013. At the point where the carrying amount exceeds the value in use, the carrying amount would be reduced to equal value in use, with a corresponding reduction in income, unless the market value has increased to a level above the carrying amount. Sensitivity analyses were performed on each key assumption to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in assumptions. The following changes to the key assumptions used in the VIU calculation would be necessary to reduce headroom to nil: Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Discount rate Increase by 20 basis points Long-term growth rate Decrease by 23 basis points Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances Increase by 0.12% in each of the years from 2013 to 2018 respectively 509 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The following illustrates the impact on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions: Favourable change Current model Unfavourable change US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Carrying value Long-term growth rate (basis points) +50 +100 5% -50 -100 VIU 15.4 16.9 14.0 12.9 11.8 Increase/(decrease) in VIU 1.4 2.9 (1.1 ) (2.2 ) Discount rate (basis points) -50 -100 13% +50 +100 VIU 15.6 17.3 14.0 12.7 11.6 Increase/(decrease) in VIU 1.6 3.3 (1.3 ) (2.4 ) Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 0.64% throughout 2013 to 2018: 0.64% to 1% 2019 onwards 0.64% 1% from 2014 to 2018 VIU 14.8 14.0 13.5 Increase/(decrease) in VIU 0.8 (0.5) Selected financial information of BoCom The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2013, HSBC included the associate’s results on the basis of financial statements made up for the 12 months to 30 September 2013, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013 that would have materially affected the results. BoCom’s results announcements for the nine months ended 30 September formed the bases for the 12 month financial statements which include adjustments made by HSBC when applying equity accounting. At30 September 2013 US$m At30 September 2012 US$m Selected balance sheet information of BoCom Cash and balances at central banks 142,209 131,044 Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 88,049 82,042 Loans and advances to customers 516,161 445,958 Other financial assets 165,521 138,283 Other assets 34,392 25,997 Total assets 946,332 823,324 Deposits by banks and other financial institutions 170,916 151,147 Customer accounts 667,588 579,158 Other financial liabilities 20,564 16,177 Other liabilities 19,655 18,072 Total liabilities 878,723 764,554 Total equity 67,609 58,770 Reconciliation of BoCom’s total shareholders’ equity to the carrying amount in HSBC’s consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2013 HSBC’s share of total shareholders’ equity 12,810 11,142 Add: Goodwill 541 524 Add: Intangible assets 61 104 Carrying amount 13,412 11,770 For the 12 months ended 30 September 2013 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Selected income statement information of BoCom Net interest income 20,768 18,404 Net fee and commission income 4,010 3,118 Loan impairment charges (2,811 ) (2,153 ) Depreciation and amortisation (809 ) (689 ) Tax expense (2,823 ) (2,618 ) Profit for the year 10,099 9,002 Other comprehensive income (375 ) 250 Total comprehensive income 9,724 9,264 Dividends received from BoCom 549 188 510 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Summarised aggregate financial information in respect of all associates excluding BoCom 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Carrying amount 3,005 5,753 HSBC’s share of: – total assets 21,007 80,659 – total liabilities 18,056 74,960 – revenues 927 9,825 – profit or loss from continuing operations 408 1,851 – other comprehensive income 9 243 – total comprehensive income 417 2,094 Joint ventures At 31 December 2013, the carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in joint ventures was US$223m (2012: US$311m). Principal joint ventures of HSBC 2013 Country of incorporation and principal place of business Principal activity HSBC’s interest in equity capital Issued equity capital HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia Investment banking 49.00% SR500m Vaultex UK Limited England Cash management 50.00% £10m Summarised aggregate financial information in respect of all joint ventures 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Carrying amount 223 311 HSBC’s share of: – total assets 734 2,166 – total liabilities 526 1,885 – revenues 251 347 – profit or loss from continuing operation 39 36 – other comprehensive income – 3 – total comprehensive income 39 39 Associates and joint ventures For the year ended 31 December 2013, HSBC’s share of associates and joint ventures’ tax on profit was US$556m (2012: US$959m), which is included within ‘Share of profit in associates and joint ventures’ in the income statement. Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 2013 US$m 2012 US$m At 1 January 17,834 20,399 Additions 26 1,804 Disposals (3,148 ) (7,580 ) Share of results 2,325 3,557 Dividends (694 ) (489 ) Exchange differences 396 60 Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures (35 ) 311 Other movements (64 ) (228 ) At 31 December 16,640 17,834 511 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Goodwill included in carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Gross amount At 1 January 670 1,551 Disposals (75 ) (874 ) Exchange differences 13 3 Other changes – (10 ) At 31 December1 608 670 1 Includes the carrying amount of goodwill arising from joint ventures of US$15m (2012: US$30m). 22 Goodwill and intangible assets At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Goodwill 21,179 21,390 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’) 5,335 4,847 Other intangible assets 3,404 3,616 29,918 29,853 Goodwill Reconciliation of goodwill Europe HongKong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA NorthAmerica LatinAmerica Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross amount At 1 January 2013 14,660 114 1,020 60 8,339 3,646 27,839 Disposals – – – – – (1 ) (1 ) Exchange differences 596 6 (135 ) (5 ) (2 ) (132 ) 328 Reclassified to held for sale1 (611 ) – – – – (272 ) (883 ) Reinstated from held for sale 332 – – – – – 332 Other – – 11 – (476 ) – (465 ) At 31 December 2013 14,977 120 896 55 7,861 3,241 27,150 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2013 – – – – (6,449 ) – (6,449 ) Exchange differences – – – – 2 – 2 Other – – – – 476 – 476 At 31 December 2013 – – – – (5,971 ) – (5,971 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013 14,977 120 896 55 1,890 3,241 21,179 Gross amount At 1 January 2012 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 Disposals (2 ) (4 ) (5 ) – – (21 ) (32 ) Exchange differences 229 (6 ) (38 ) (3 ) – 23 205 Reclassified to held for sale – – – – (408 ) (121 ) (529 ) At 31 December 2012 14,660 114 1,020 60 8,339 3,646 27,839 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2012 – – – – (6,857 ) – (6,857 ) Reclassified to held for sale – – – – 408 – 408 At 31 December 2012 – – – – (6,449 ) – (6,449 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 14,660 114 1,020 60 1,890 3,646 21,390 1 During the year, goodwill in Europe amounting to US$611m was reclassified to assets held for sale following the decision to sell the private banking operations of HSBC Private Bank Holdings (Suisse) SA. On transfer to held for sale, a write down of the disposal group by US$279m was recorded and allocated to goodwill. Following the later decision to retain the private banking operations in Monaco, the reclassification of the private banking operations in Monaco out of held for sale resulted in the reinstatement of the remaining goodwill. 512 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Impairment testing Timing of impairment testing HSBC’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed as at 1 July each year. In line with the accounting policy described in Note 2(p), goodwill is also retested for impairment whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, the Group’s CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global businesses. The CGUs represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. For the Global Private Banking – Europe CGU, reduced forecast cash flows in management’s latest approved plan was an indicator of goodwill impairment leading to a retest at 31 December 2013. For other CGUs there was no indication of impairment in the period to 31 December 2013 and therefore goodwill has not been retested since 1 July 2013. Basis of the recoverable amount – value in use or fair value less costs to sell The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at each respective testing date for 2012 and 2013. For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates. The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs. For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2013, management’s cash flow projections until the end of 2017 were used. For the retest of goodwill impairment for the Global Private Banking – Europe CGU at 31 December 2013, management’s cash flow projections until the end of 2018 were used. Key assumptions in VIU calculation and management’s approach to determining the values assigned to each key assumption Goodwill at 1 July 2013 Discountrate Nominal growth rate beyond initialcash flow projections US$m % % 2013 Cash-generating unit Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe 4,135 8.0 3.9 Commercial Banking – Europe 3,062 10.0 3.8 Global Private Banking – Europe 3,607 7.3 3.0 Global Banking and Markets – Europe 3,101 9.9 3.7 Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America 1,812 11.2 8.6 15,717 2012 Cash-generating unit Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe 4,054 10.0 3.9 Commercial Banking – Europe 2,968 10.2 3.7 Global Private Banking – Europe 4,139 9.1 3.2 Global Banking and Markets – Europe 3,016 10.2 3.5 Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America 1,994 15.3 8.7 16,171 At 1 July 2013, aggregate goodwill of US$4,550m (1 July 2012: US$4,741m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant. The Group CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill. Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of likely future trends. The rates used for 2013 and 2012 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within which the CGU operates. 513 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a CAPM. The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates produced by external sources. HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in management’s judgement, those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions. For 2013 and 2012, internal costs of capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates. Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the Group Management Board. The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below. Global Private Banking – Europe: the cash flow forecast for GBP – Europe primarily reflects the repositioning of the business that is underway to concentrate on clients aligned with the Group’s priorities. Revenues in GPB – Europe are predominately generated through HSBC’s client relationships and the key assumption in the cash flow forecast is the level of assets under management and profitability therein following the strategic repositioning. The cash flow forecast includes increased profitability in GPB – Europe which is dependent on management achieving the planned strategic repositioning. At 1 July 2013, GPB – Europe had an excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$4.5bn. At 31 December 2013, headroom was US$0.4bn based on goodwill at that point of US$4.1bn. The change in goodwill carrying value between 1 July 2013 and 31 December 2013 arises from the partial reinstatement of goodwill classified as held for sale at 1 July 2013 as well as retranslating goodwill into the presentation currency of the group. For the test of goodwill impairment at 31 December 2013 for GPB – Europe, in addition to updated cash flow forecasts the nominal long-term growth rate was updated to 3.3% and the discount rate updated to 7.6%. The following changes to the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Discount rate Increase by 23 basis points Nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow projection Decrease by 27 basis points Cash flow projection over the forecast period Decrease by 5.2% Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM – Europe and CMB – Europe reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two CGUs. Key assumptions include the level of interest rates, nominal GDP growth, competitors’ positions within the market and the level and change in unemployment rates. While current economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, management’s cash flow projections are based primarily on these prevailing conditions. Risks include slower than expected growth and an uncertain regulatory environment. RBWM – Europe specifically, is sensitive to further customer remediation and regulatory actions. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM – Europe or CMB – Europe. Global Banking and Markets – Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for GB&M – Europe is that European markets will continue to recover during 2014. Accordingly, recovery in European revenues is assumed to continue over the projection period to 2017. Interest rate fluctuations would put further pressure on European markets revenue recovery. Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for GB&M – Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the recommendations set out in the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of GB&M – Europe. Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM – Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the countries within this 514 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) CGU, with Brazil and Mexico being the two largest. Key assumptions include growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan portfolios. Mexico in particular is sensitive to economic conditions in the US which could constrain demand. Potential challenges include unfavourable economic conditions restricting client demand and competitor pricing constraining margins. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM – Latin America. Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’) Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a risk and valuation framework. The PVIF asset at 31 December 2013 was US$5.3bn (2012: US$4.8bn), representing the present value of the equity holders’ interest in the issuing insurance companies’ profits expected to emerge from long-term insurance business and the long-term investment contracts with DPF in force at the balance sheet date. Movements in PVIF (Audited) 2013 2012 PVIF US$m PVIF US$m At 1 January 4,847 4,092 Value of new business written during the year1 924 1,027 Movements arising from in-force business: – expected return (505 ) (420 ) – experience variances2 (20 ) 12 – changes in operating assumptions 186 (3 ) Investment return variances 42 (18 ) Changes in investment assumptions (120 ) 78 Other adjustments3 18 61 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 525 737 Exchange differences and other (37 ) 18 At 31 December 5,335 4,847 1 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business. 2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this affects profits on future business. 3 Other adjustments for 2012 included a one-off gain of US$119m for a PVIF asset recognised on linked insurance business in Brazil. In the PVIF calculation, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and management’s judgement of future trends, and after applying risk margins to reflect any uncertainty in the underlying assumptions. The main assumptions relate to economic and non-economic assumptions and policyholder behaviour. Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business. The key drivers of the movement in the value of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: • new business adjusted for anticipated maturities and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour (‘Value of new business written during the year’); • unwind of the discount rate less the reversal of expected cash flows for the period (‘Expected return’); • changes in non-economic operating assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates (‘Change in operating assumptions’); • the effects of changes in projected future cash flows associated with operating assumption experience variances compared with those assumed at the start of the period (‘Experience variances’); • changes related to future investment returns (‘Changes in investment assumptions’); and • the effect of actual investment experience on existing assets compared with the assumptions at the start of the period (‘Investment return variances’). 515 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection assumptions and explicit allowances for financial options and guarantees using stochastic methods. Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with reference to market risk-free yields. Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are set in each country in a way that is consistent with observable market values where deep and liquid markets exist. When economic assumptions are set for a term that is beyond the observable range or the observable values are not appropriate with regard to the nature and term of liabilities, we use relevant historical data and research analyses performed by the Group’s Economic Research team and internationally reputable consultants in deriving the assumptions. 2013 2012 UK Hong Kong France UK Hong Kong France % % % % % % Risk free rate 2.45 2.31 2.38 1.53 0.60 2.12 Risk discount rate 2.95 7.41 4.69 2.03 7.46 4.05 Expense inflation 3.39 3.00 2.00 2.84 3.00 2.00 Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from an observed risk-free rate curve and adding explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best estimate cash flow modelling. Where shareholders provide guarantees and options to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators. See page 254 for further details of these guarantees. The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, the relationships are non-linear and the results of the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress. The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour. 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: + 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate 184 137 – 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate (289 ) (191 ) Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions including mortality and/or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates. The table below shows the sensitivity of PVIF to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: 10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates (84 ) (115 ) 10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates 84 111 10% increase in lapse rates (154 ) (156 ) 10% decrease in lapse rates 173 178 10% increase in expense rates (109 ) (114 ) 10% decrease in expense rates 110 114 516 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other intangible assets Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF Internally generated software Other Total US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2013 5,703 3,345 9,048 Additions 731 142 873 Disposals (117 ) (196 ) (313 ) Amount written off (57 ) (47 ) (104 ) Other changes (261 ) (269 ) (530 ) At 31 December 2013 5,999 2,975 8,974 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 (3,469 ) (1,963 ) (5,432 ) Charge for the year1 (675 ) (179 ) (854 ) Impairment (39 ) (4 ) (43 ) Disposals 111 167 278 Amount written off 57 47 104 Other changes 206 171 377 At 31 December 2013 (3,809 ) (1,761 ) (5,570 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013 2,190 1,214 3,404 Cost At 1 January 2012 5,598 3,315 8,913 Additions 765 277 1,042 Disposals (32 ) (189 ) (221 ) Amount written off (680 ) (60 ) (740 ) Other changes 52 2 54 At 31 December 2012 5,703 3,345 9,048 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 (3,437 ) (1,872 ) (5,309 ) Charge for the year1 (645 ) (334 ) (979 ) Impairment (63 ) (5 ) (68 ) Disposals 28 183 211 Amount written off 680 60 740 Other changes (32 ) 5 (27 ) At 31 December 2012 (3,469 ) (1,963 ) (5,432 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 2,234 1,382 3,616 1 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under ‘Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets’, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in ‘Net fee income’. The revaluation net of amortisation charge for mortgage servicing rights was a credit of US$34m in 2013 (2012: amortisation charge of US$78m). 517 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 23 Property, plant and equipment Freehold andleasehold land and buildings Equipment, fixtures and fittings Total US$m US$m US$m Cost or fair value At 1 January 2013 9,427 11,771 21,198 Additions at cost 1,022 958 1,980 Fair value adjustments 149 – 149 Disposals (329 ) (666 ) (995 ) Other changes (230 ) (175 ) (405 ) At 31 December 2013 10,039 11,888 21,927 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2013 (2,379 ) (8,231 ) (10,610 ) Depreciation and impairment (339 ) (1,025 ) (1,364 ) Disposals 174 554 728 Other changes 111 55 166 At 31 December 2013 (2,433 ) (8,647 ) (11,080 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013 7,606 3,241 10,847 Cost or fair value At 1 January 2012 9,209 11,650 20,859 Additions at cost 433 1,066 1,499 Fair value adjustments 72 – 72 Disposals (209 ) (929 ) (1138 ) Other changes (78 ) (16 ) (94 ) At 31 December 2012 9,427 11,771 21,198 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 (2,057 ) (7,937 ) (9,994 ) Depreciation and impairment (354 ) (1,130 ) (1,484 ) Disposals 97 857 954 Other changes (65 ) (21 ) (86 ) At 31 December 2012 (2,379 ) (8,231 ) (10,610 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 7,048 3,540 10,588 Investment properties Freehold and leasehold land and buildings include US$1,945m of investment properties at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: US$1,334m). Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties. Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent more than 75% by value of HSBC’s investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited whose valuers are members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors. Properties in other countries, which represent 25% by value of HSBC’s investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers. At 31 December 2013, the classification of land and buildings in Hong Kong in accordance with Hong Kong Companies Ordinance requirements was long leasehold US$1,309m (2012: US$1,319m), medium leasehold US$2,472m (2012: US$1,600m) and short leasehold US$2m (2012: US$3m). 518 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 24 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2013 Country of incorporation or registration HSBC’s interestin equitycapital % Issued equity capital Share class Europe HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited England 100 £265m Ordinary £1 HSBC Bank A.S. Turkey 100 TRL652m A–Common TRL1 B–Common TRL1 HSBC Bank plc England 100 £797m Ordinary £1 Preferred Ordinary £1 Series 2 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 HSBC France France 99.99 €337m Shares €5.00 HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA Switzerland 100 CHF1,363m Ordinary CHF1,000 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.62 €75.4m Shares of no par value Hong Kong Hang Seng Bank Limited1 Hong Kong 62.14 HK$9,559m Ordinary HK$5.00 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$85,319m Ordinary HK$2.50 CIP2 US$1.00 CRP3 US$1.00 NIP4 US$1.00 HSBC Life (International) Limited Bermuda 100 HK$4,178m Ordinary HK$1.00 Rest of Asia-Pacific HSBC Bank Australia Limited Australia 100 A$811m Ordinary no par value HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited PRC 5 100 RMB15,400m Ordinary CNY1.00 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM115m Ordinary RM0.50 HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited Vietnam 100 VND3,000,000m Ordinary VND1.00 HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited Taiwan 100 TWD30,000m Ordinary TWD10.00 Middle East and North Africa HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Jersey 100 US$931m Ordinary US$1.00 CRP3 US$1.00 HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. Egypt 94.54 EGP2,796m Ordinary EGP84.00 North America HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 C$1,225m Common NPV6 HSBC Bank USA, N.A. US 100 US$2m Common US$100 HSBC Finance Corporation US 100 – 7 Common US$0.01 HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. US 100 – 7 Common US$0.05 Latin America HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. Argentina 99.99 ARS1,244m Ordinary–A ARS1.00 Ordinary–B ARS1.00 HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo Brazil 100 BRL6,402m Shares of no par value HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN5,681m Ordinary MXN2.00 1 Listed in Hong Kong. 5 People’s Republic of China. 2 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. 6 Preference shares of nil par value. 3 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares. 7 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m. 4 Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 28 ‘Debt securities in issue’, 32 ‘Subordinated liabilities’ and 37 ‘Non-controlling interests’, respectively. All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements. Details of all HSBC subsidiaries, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and HSBC Life (International) Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong. HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent 519 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) with the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant country or region. Within the legal entity structure, HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and non-equity capital where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance and profit retention. During 2013 and 2012, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance. The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities is set out in Note 40. Structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights Carrying value of total consolidated assets Nature of SPE 2013 US$bn 2012 US$bn Solitaire Funding Ltd 10.2 11.3 Securities investment conduit Mazarin Funding Limited 7.4 8.0 Securities investment conduit Barion Funding Limited 3.8 3.9 Securities investment conduit Malachite Funding Limited 3.0 3.4 Securities investment conduit HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I 2.1 2.0 Securitisation HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II 1.6 2.2 Securitisation Regency Assets Limited 13.5 10.1 Conduit Bryant Park Funding LLC 0.4 0.9 Conduit In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant structured entities with total assets of US$26.1bn (2012: US$21.2bn). For further details, see Note 42. In each of the above cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Disposals On 19 February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A., resulting in the classification of the associated assets and liabilities as a disposal group held for sale. On 25 October 2013, we completed the disposal for total cash consideration of US$2.2bn, realising a gain on disposal of US$1.1bn within ‘Other income’. Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 2013 2012 Hang Seng Bank Limited Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86% 37.86% Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong US$m US$m Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,332 1,009 Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 4,591 3,894 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 495 485 Summarised financial information: – total assets 145,380 137,024 – total liabilities 133,253 126,738 – net operating income before loan impairment 4,876 3,296 – profit for the year 3,517 2,664 – total comprehensive income for the year 3,145 2,831 520 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 25 Assets held for sale and other assets Assets held for sale 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Disposal groups 2,912 5,797 Non-current assets held for sale: 1,138 13,472 – property, plant and equipment 459 500 – investment in Ping An – 8,168 – loans and advances to customers 101 3,893 – other 578 911 4,050 19,269 Disposal groups At 31 December 2013, the following businesses represented the majority of disposal groups held for sale: • Latin American businesses, including banking operations in Uruguay and Colombia. These operations had total assets held for sale of $2.0bn and total liabilities held for sale of $1.8bn. • Banking operations in Jordan, with total assets held for sale of $0.9bn and total liabilities held for sale of $1.0bn. The following businesses that were held for sale at 31 December 2012 were sold in 2013, with losses recognised in other operating income: • The sale of the US life insurance business was completed on 29 March 2013 with a loss on disposal of US$99m. • The sale of the Latin America operations in Peru was completed on 4 October 2013, resulting in a cumulative loss until the point of disposal of US$18m. • The sale of the Latin America operations in Paraguay was completed on 29 November 2013, resulting in a cumulative loss until the point of disposal of US$21m. The following businesses were held for sale wholly within the year ended 31 December 2013: • In the first quarter of 2013, we announced the disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. at which point it was classified as held for sale. The sale was completed on 25 October 2013. Further details are provided in Note 24. • In the first quarter of 2013, the private banking operations of HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) S.A. in Monaco were classified as held for sale. At this time, a loss on reclassification to held for sale of US$279m was recognised in the income statement following a write down in the value of goodwill allocated to the operation. On 11 July 2013, we announced that following a strategic review we had decided to retain this business. As a result of this decision all assets and liabilities of the business were reclassified to the relevant balance sheet categories. The loss on reclassification to held for sale was not reversed and remains a permanent reduction in the value of goodwill allocated to this operation. Investment in Ping An On 5 December 2012, we entered into an agreement to dispose of our entire shareholding in Ping An for US$9.4bn. The disposal was carried out in two tranches and the selling price for both tranches was fixed. The first tranche of shares was disposed of on 7 December 2012 at which point we recognised a gain on disposal of US$3.0bn. Following the first tranche of the disposal, our remaining shareholding was recognised as an available-for-sale investment. At 31 December 2012, the fair value of our remaining shareholding in Ping An, US$8.2bn, was included within assets held for sale above, with US$737m accumulated unrealised gains recorded in ‘Other comprehensive income’. The fixing of the sale price gave rise to a contingent forward sale contract, the fair value of which at 31 December 2012 was based on the difference between the agreed sale price and the market price for the shares, adjusted for an assessment of the probability of the transaction being completed. The adverse fair value of this contract was US$553m at 31 December 2012, recorded in ‘Net trading income’. On 6 February 2013, we completed the disposal of our remaining investment in Ping An realising a gain on derecognition of US$1,235m recorded in ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’. This was partly offset by an adverse fair value movement of US$682m on the contingent forward sale contract in the period to the point of 521 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) delivery of the remaining shares recorded in ‘Net trading income’, resulting in a net income statement gain before tax of US$553m. Property, plant and equipment The property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is the result of repossessing property that had been pledged as collateral by customers. Substantially all of these assets are disposed of within 12 months of acquisition. The majority arose within the North America operating segment. Loans and advances to customers We completed the sale of the CML non-real estate personal loan portfolio with loan balances of US$3.4bn on 1 April 2013 and recognised a loss on sale of US$271m. We completed the sales of several tranches of real estate secured accounts with loan balances of US$5.7bn during 2013 and recognised a total loss on sale of US$153m in other operating income. Other assets At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Bullion 22,929 26,508 Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Note 30) 1,408 1,407 Endorsements and acceptances 11,624 12,032 Retirement benefit assets 2,140 2,846 Other accounts 12,838 11,923 50,939 54,716 26 Trading liabilities At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Deposits by banks 43,130 61,686 Customer accounts 57,688 150,705 Other debt securities in issue (Note 28) 32,155 31,198 Other liabilities – net short positions in securities 74,052 60,974 207,025 304,563 At 31 December 2013, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC’s credit risk was a loss of US$95m (2012: loss of US$29m). Deposits by banks held for trading 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Repos1 7,810 26,740 Settlement accounts 7,764 7,647 Stock lending 8,409 4,523 Other 19,147 22,776 43,130 61,686 522 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Customer accounts held for trading 2013US$m 2012US$m Repos1 9,611 103,483 Settlement accounts 9,664 9,461 Stock lending 3,809 2,295 Other 34,604 35,466 57,688 150,705 1 In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages repo and reverse repo activities in the Credit and Rates businesses as set out on page 220 of the Liquidity and funding section. This led to a reduction in the amount of repos classified as trading liabilities. 27 Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Deposits by banks and customer accounts 315 496 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13,491 12,456 Debt securities in issue (Note 28) 53,363 53,209 Subordinated liabilities (Note 32) 18,230 16,863 Preferred securities (Note 32) 3,685 4,696 89,084 87,720 The carrying amount at 31 December 2013 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$4,375m more than the contractual amount at maturity (2012: US$7,032m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$1,334m (2012: loss of US$88m). HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2013US$m 2012US$m Debt securities in issue (Note 28): – owed to third parties 8,106 8,577 Subordinated liabilities (Note 32): – owed to third parties 9,760 10,358 – owed to HSBC undertakings 3,161 4,260 21,027 23,195 The carrying amount at 31 December 2013 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$2,309m more than the contractual amount at maturity (2012: US$3,199m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$859m (2012: loss of US$164m). 28 Debt securities in issue At 31 December 2013US$m 2012US$m Bonds and medium-term notes 146,116 155,661 Other debt securities in issue 43,482 48,207 189,598 203,868 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: – trading liabilities (Note 26) (32,155 ) (31,198 ) – financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 27) (53,363 ) (53,209 ) 104,080 119,461 The following table analyses the carrying amount of bonds and medium-term notes in issue at 31 December with original maturities greater than one year: 523 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Bonds and medium-term notes HSBC At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Fixed rate Secured financing: 0.01% to 3.99%: until 2056 10,712 7,514 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2013 – 231 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2019 90 189 8.00% to 9.99%: until 2028 – 252 Other fixed rate senior debt: 0.01% to 3.99%: until 2078 48,219 48,620 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2046 16,862 18,722 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2041 11,097 14,766 6.00% to 6.99%: until 2046 4,775 5,207 7.00% to 7.99%: until 2026 470 713 8.00% to 9.99%: until 2036 153 199 10.00% or higher: until 2028 35 108 92,413 96,521 Variable interest rate Secured financings – 0.01% to 13.99%: until 2068 5,416 7,897 FHLB advances – 0.01% to 0.99%: until 2036 1,000 1,000 Other variable interest rate senior debt – 0.01% to 12.99%: until 2057 39,281 43,104 45,697 52,001 Structured notes Interest rate, equity, equity index or credit-linked 8,006 7,139 146,116 155,661 HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2013US$m 2012US$m Debt securities 10,897 11,268 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: – financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 27) (8,106 ) (8,577 ) 2,791 2,691 Fixed rate senior debt, unsecured 3.00% to 3.99%: until 2016 1,283 1,258 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2022 4,797 4,945 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2021 2,817 2,990 6.00% to 6.99%: until 2042 2,000 2,075 10,897 11,268 29 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale HSBC 2013US$m 2012US$m Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale1 2,804 5,018 1 Further details in respect of liabilities of disposal groups held for sale is provided on page 521. 524 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other liabilities HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013US$m 2012US$m 2013US$m 2012US$m Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC 1,008 564 – – Obligations under finance leases (Note 41) 252 304 – – Endorsements and acceptances 11,614 12,031 – – Other liabilities 17,547 20,963 61 30 30,421 33,862 61 30 30 Liabilities under insurance contracts Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m 2013 Non-linked insurance contracts1 At 1 January 30,765 (952 ) 29,813 Benefits paid (3,014 ) 164 (2,850 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 6,892 (367 ) 6,525 Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale (52 ) 13 (39 ) Exchange differences and other movements (641 ) 24 (617 ) At 31 December 33,950 (1,118 ) 32,832 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 24,374 – 24,374 Benefits paid (2,308 ) – (2,308 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,677 – 3,677 Exchange differences and other movements2 684 – 684 At 31 December 26,427 – 26,427 Linked life insurance contracts At 1 January 13,056 (455 ) 12,601 Benefits paid (1,976 ) 426 (1,550 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,379 111 3,490 Exchange differences and other movements3 (655 ) (372 ) (1,027 ) At 31 December 13,804 (290 ) 13,514 Total liabilities to policyholders 74,181 (1,408 ) 72,773 2012 Non-linked insurance contracts1 At 1 January 28,561 (899 ) 27,662 Benefits paid (1,905 ) 217 (1,688 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 6,900 (537 ) 6,363 Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale (2,130 ) 254 (1,876 ) Exchange differences and other movements (661 ) 13 (648 ) At 31 December 30,765 (952 ) 29,813 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 21,488 – 21,488 Benefits paid (2,525 ) – (2,525 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,645 – 3,645 Exchange differences and other movements2 1,766 – 1,766 At 31 December 24,374 – 24,374 Linked life insurance contracts At 1 January 11,210 (903 ) 10,307 Benefits paid (1,810 ) 681 (1,129 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,984 223 4,207 Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale (26 ) – (26 ) Exchange differences and other movements3 (302 ) (456 ) (758 ) At 31 December 13,056 (455 ) 12,601 Total liabilities to policyholders 68,195 (1,407 ) 66,788 525 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 1 Includes liabilities under non-life insurance contracts. 2 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income. 3 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements. The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to policyholders in the year. The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders. 31 Provisions Restruc- turing costs US$m Contingent liabilities and contractual commitments US$m Legal proceedings and regulatory matters US$m Customer remediation US$m Other provisions US$m Total US$m At 1 January 2013 251 301 1,667 2,387 646 5,252 Additional provisions/increase in provisions 179 57 1,209 1,536 230 3,211 Provisions utilised (111 ) (5 ) (709 ) (1,487 ) (167 ) (2,479 ) Amounts reversed (65 ) (66 ) (340 ) (94 ) (126 ) (691 ) Unwinding of discounts – – 38 7 13 58 Exchange differences and other movements 17 (110 ) (33 ) 33 (41 ) (134 ) At 31 December 2013 271 177 1,832 2,382 555 5,217 At 1 January 2012 169 206 1,473 1,067 409 3,324 Additional provisions/increase in provisions 434 73 2,779 2,473 376 6,135 Provisions utilised (320 ) (2 ) (2,510 ) (1,022 ) (153 ) (4,007 ) Amounts reversed (89 ) (58 ) (104 ) (137 ) (63 ) (451 ) Unwinding of discounts – – 42 1 5 48 Exchange differences and other movements 57 82 (13 ) 5 72 203 At 31 December 2012 251 301 1,667 2,387 646 5,252 Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 43. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. In December 2012, HSBC made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws. Further details of the agreements reached with the US authorities are set out on page 558. Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action. Payment protection insurance An increase in provisions of US$756m was recognised during 2013 in respect of the estimated liability for redress regarding the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policies in previous years. Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in 2011 amount to US$3,153m, of which US$1,138m was paid in 2013 (2012: US$957m). At 31 December 2013, the provision amounted to US$946m (2012: US$1,321m). The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum (or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher). The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies. Future estimated redress levels are based on historically observed redress per policy. 526 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) A total of approximately 5.4m PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, generating estimated revenues of US$4.1bn at 2013 average exchange rates. The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately US$5.0bn at 2013 average exchange rates. At 31 December 2013, the estimated total complaints expected to be received was 1.5m, representing 29% of total policies sold. It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 1.9m policies, representing 35% of total policies sold. This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as HSBC’s proactive contact exercise on certain policies (‘outbound contact’). The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2013 and the number of claims expected in the future: Cumulative to 31 December 2013 Future expected Inbound complaints1 (000s of policies) 1,022 240 Outbound contact (000s of policies) 375 234 Response rate to outbound contact 49% 44% Average uphold rate per claim2 76% 72% Average redress per claim (US$) 2,627 2,404 1 Excludes invalid claims where the complainant has not held a PPI policy. 2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact. The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint. The main assumptions are likely to evolve over time as root cause analysis continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint volumes received, and we handle responses to our ongoing outbound contact. A 100,000 increase/decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$203m at 2013 average exchange rates. Each 1% increase/decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$8m. In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and circumstances of each individual customer’s case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress for this matter. The decay rate implies that by the end of 2015 inbound claim volumes would mean that the redress programme is complete. However, this timing is subject to some level of uncertainty as the decay rate may change over time based on actual experience. Interest rate derivatives A provision of US$776m (2012: US$598m) was recognised relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK. Of this provision, US$453m related to the estimated redress payable to customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, the remaining provision covered the expected write-off by the bank of open derivative contracts balances and estimated project costs. Following an FCA review of the sale of interest rate derivatives, HSBC agreed to pay redress to customers where mis-selling of these products occurred under the FCA’s criteria. On 31 January 2013, the FCA announced the findings from their review of pilot cases completed by the banks. Following its review, the FCA clarified the eligibility criteria to ensure the programme is focused on those small businesses that were unlikely to understand the risks associated with those products. HSBC has also been working with the FCA and an independent ‘skilled person’ adviser to clarify the standards against which it should assess sales, and how redress should be calculated (for example, when it would be appropriate to assume a customer would have taken an alternative interest rate product). The extent to which HSBC is required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other customers during the review period and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress related to this programme. HSBC expects to make the main redress payments in respect of this programme in the near future. Brazilian labour and fiscal claims Within ‘Legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ above are labour and fiscal litigation provisions of US$500m (2012: US$506m) which include provisions in respect of labour and overtime litigation claims brought by past employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank. The main assumptions involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. 527 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 32 Subordinated liabilities HSBC At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Subordinated liabilities At amortised cost 28,976 29,479 – subordinated liabilities 24,573 25,119 – preferred securities 4,403 4,360 Designated at fair value (Note 27) 21,915 21,559 – subordinated liabilities 18,230 16,863 – preferred securities 3,685 4,696 50,891 51,038 Subordinated liabilities HSBC Holdings 22,308 20,569 Other HSBC 28,583 30,469 50,891 51,038 Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC. Where applicable, capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable may step-up or become floating rate based on interbank rates. Interest rates on the floating rate capital securities are generally related to interbank offered rates. On the remaining capital securities, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%. The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRSs basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital. The IFRSs accounting and regulatory treatments differ due to the inclusion of issuance costs and regulatory amortisation. HSBC’s subordinated liabilities Tier 1 capital securities Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which investors are entitled, subject to certain conditions, to receive distributions which are non-cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank above ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. Qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue accounted for as liabilities At 31 December First call date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings1 US$1,250m 4.61% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities2 Jun 2013 – 1,250 €1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities3 Mar 2014 2,022 1,933 £500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Jun 2015 825 806 €750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2016 1,129 1,033 US$900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 Jun 2030 891 891 4,867 5,913 Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc1 £300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 534 480 £700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 1,157 1,131 1,691 1,611 1 See paragraph below, ‘Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc’. 2 In June 2013, HSBC called its US$1,250m 4.61% non-cumulative step-up preferred securities at par. 3 In January 2014, HSBC gave notice that it will call and redeem the €1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities at par in March 2014. 528 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc The six capital securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank are non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities issued by Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. These preferred securities qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC Group and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank also qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank (on a solo and a consolidated basis). These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the relevant issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy requirements or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank have insufficient distributable reserves (as defined). HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their ordinary shares, or effect repurchases or redemptions of their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full. With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings – if (i) HSBC’s total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (ii) the Directors expect, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, that (i) will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Holdings which have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank – if (i) any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively, or (ii) the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (iii) in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect (ii) to occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. Upper tier 2 capital securities Upper tier 2 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. Such securities rank below lower tier 2 securities for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. Qualifying upper tier 2 securities in issue At 31 December First call date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m HSBC Bank plc US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 751 750 US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 499 499 US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 299 301 1,549 1,550 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes Aug 1990 404 405 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (second series) Dec 1990 402 402 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (third series) Jul 1991 400 400 1,206 1,207 Other HSBC subsidiaries Other perpetual subordinated loan capital less than US$100m 22 21 Lower tier 2 capital securities Lower tier 2 capital securities are dated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. In accordance with the PRA’s GENPRU, the capital contribution of lower tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes on a straight-line basis in their final five years before maturity. 529 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Qualifying lower tier 2 securities in issue At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m HSBC Bank plc £500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes1 Sep 2015 Sep 2020 866 844 £350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes2 Mar 2018 Mar 2023 635 630 £300m 6.50% subordinated notes – Jul 2023 494 483 £350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes3 Nov 2025 Nov 2030 602 630 £500m 5.375% subordinated notes – Aug 2033 884 925 £225m 6.25% subordinated notes – Jan 2041 370 362 £600m 4.75% subordinated notes – Mar 2046 980 958 €500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes4 Sep 2015 Sep 2020 655 606 US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes – May 2025 380 394 5,866 5,832 HSBC Bank Australia Limited AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes Nov 2015 Nov 2020 179 207 AUD42m Callable subordinated floating rate notes5 Mar 2013 Mar 2018 – 44 179 251 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022 152 164 MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 154 168 306 332 HSBC USA Inc. US$200m 7.808% capital securities Dec 2006 Dec 2026 200 200 US$200m 8.38% capital securities May 2007 May 2027 200 200 US$150m 9.50% subordinated debt – Apr 2014 151 152 US$150m 7.75% Capital Trust pass through securities Nov 2006 Nov 2026 150 150 US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes – Sep 2020 746 745 US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures – Jul 2097 215 214 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m 299 302 1,961 1,963 HSBC Bank USA, N.A. US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes – Apr 2014 1,000 1,002 US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes – Aug 2017 513 516 US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes – Aug 2020 1,262 1,263 US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes – Nov 2034 1,081 1,151 US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes – Aug 2035 811 864 US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes – Jan 2039 696 694 5,363 5,490 HSBC Finance Corporation US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities6 Nov 2015 Nov 2035 996 995 US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes7 – Jan 2021 2,182 2,180 3,178 3,175 HSBC Bank Brazil S.A. BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit – Feb 2015 162 289 BRL500m Subordinated floating rate certificates of deposit – Dec 2016 212 464 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m8 224 491 598 1,244 HSBC Mexico, S.A. MXN1,818m Non-convertible subordinated obligations9 Sep 2013 Sep 2018 138 139 MXN2,273m Non-convertible subordinated obligations9 Dec 2013 Dec 2018 173 173 US$300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations9,10 Jun 2014 Jun 2019 240 240 551 552 HSBC Bank Canada CAD400m 4.80% subordinated debentures Apr 2017 Apr 2022 403 438 CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures Mar 2016 Mar 2021 188 201 CAD39m Floating rate debentures Oct 1996 Nov 2083 37 39 628 678 530 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Other HSBC subsidiaries Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m9 618 650 Total of subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 28,583 30,469 Amounts owed to third parties by HSBC Holdings 22,308 20,569 50,891 51,038 1 The interest rate payable after September 2015 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 0.82%. 2 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%. 3 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50%. 4 The interest margin increases by 0.5% from September 2015. 5 In March 2013, HSBC called its callable subordinated floating rate notes at par. 6 The distributions change in November 2015 to three-month dollar Libor plus 1.926%. 7 Approximately 25% of the senior subordinated notes are held by HSBC Holdings. 8 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRA’s GENPRU. 9 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRA’s GENPRU. 10 Approximately US$60m of the subordinated obligations are held by HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Subordinated liabilities: – at amortised cost 14,167 11,907 – designated at fair value (Note 27) 12,921 14,618 27,088 26,525 HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Amounts owed to third parties1 US$488m 7.625% subordinated notes – May 2032 554 579 US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes – Nov 2032 278 258 US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes – May 2036 2,029 2,034 US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes – Sep 2037 3,039 3,202 US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes – Jun 2038 1,487 1,486 £250m 9.875% subordinated bonds2 Apr 2013 Apr 2018 – 442 £900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes3 Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,672 1,648 £650m 5.75% subordinated notes – Dec 2027 1,158 1,210 £650m 6.75% subordinated notes – Sep 2028 1,066 1,041 £750m 7.0% subordinated notes – Apr 2038 1,288 1,264 £900m 6.0% subordinated notes – Mar 2040 1,464 1,431 €1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes – Mar 2018 2,210 2,118 €1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes – Jun 2019 2,884 2,882 €700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes4 Jun 2015 Jun 2020 1,007 974 €1,500m 3.375% callable subordinated notes5 Jun 2019 Jun 2024 2,075 – 22,211 20,569 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings US$1,250m 4.61% fixed/floating subordinated notes6 Jun 2013 Jun 2043 – 1,264 €1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes7 Mar 2014 Dec 2043 2,024 1,952 £500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2015 Jun 2040 825 806 €750m 5.13% fixed/floating subordinated notes Mar 2016 Dec 2044 1,137 1,043 US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891 891 4,877 5,956 27,088 26,525 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as lower tier 2 securities in accordance with guidance in the PRA’s GENPRU. 2 In April 2013, HSBC Holdings called its £250m 9.875% subordinated bonds at par. 3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3%. 531 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%. 5 This subordinated note is measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while it is measured at fair value in the Group. 6 In June 2013, HSBC Holdings called its US$1,250m 4.61% fixed/floating subordinated notes at par. 7 In January 2014, HSBC Holdings gave notice that it will call and redeem the €1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes at par in March 2014. 33 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 533 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: • except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives) are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time; • financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket; • non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities) are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket; • financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction; and • liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are classified based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down. 532 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities At 31 December 2013 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 166,599 – – – – – – – 166,599 Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,021 – – – – – – – 6,021 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 25,220 – – – – – – – 25,220 Trading assets 296,396 3,098 1,536 2,062 100 – – – 303,192 – reverse repos 3,324 3,098 1,536 2,062 100 – – – 10,120 – other trading assets 293,072 – – – – – – – 293,072 Financial assets designated at fair value 1,929 254 494 426 328 2,145 2,819 30,035 38,430 Derivatives 277,747 48 88 389 552 716 1,486 1,239 282,265 – trading 277,709 – – – – – – – 277,709 – non-trading 38 48 88 389 552 716 1,486 1,239 4,556 Loans and advances to banks 144,558 41,509 6,886 1,910 2,164 6,966 3,164 4,364 211,521 – reverse repos 68,007 19,402 1,489 481 874 837 385 – 91,475 – other loans and advances to banks 76,551 22,107 5,397 1,429 1,290 6,129 2,779 4,364 120,046 Loans and advances to customers 296,971 89,390 59,851 30,031 33,392 88,241 182,525 299,903 1,080,304 – personal 43,805 8,929 8,561 6,603 7,578 26,915 58,611 243,124 404,126 – corporate and commercial 173,965 58,038 43,723 19,896 21,092 53,887 113,897 53,981 538,479 – financial 79,201 22,423 7,567 3,532 4,722 7,439 10,017 2,798 137,699 of which: – reverse repos 66,235 15,927 3,798 758 1,198 299 – – 88,215 Financial investments 34,331 48,053 35,877 22,353 18,816 50,711 105,340 110,444 425,925 Assets held for sale 1,067 541 193 199 229 156 373 744 3,502 Accrued income 3,593 2,312 619 644 148 653 581 1,626 10,176 Other financial assets 14,059 4,831 1,655 526 323 324 73 2,166 23,957 Total financial assets 1,268,491 190,036 107,199 58,540 56,052 149,912 296,361 450,521 2,577,112 Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 94,206 94,206 Total assets 1,268,491 190,036 107,199 58,540 56,052 149,912 296,361 544,727 2,671,318 533 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) At 31 December 2013 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 25,220 – – – – – – – 25,220 Deposits by banks 113,566 7,492 3,329 858 661 737 1,922 647 129,212 – repos 37,268 3,561 1,533 – 343 – – – 42,705 – other deposits by banks 76,298 3,931 1,796 858 318 737 1,922 647 86,507 Customer accounts1 1,328,563 70,180 31,990 17,415 19,272 8,717 5,937 738 1,482,812 – personal 572,514 33,956 16,953 10,544 10,520 6,093 5,138 59 655,777 – corporate and commercial 506,902 21,209 7,414 2,717 3,786 1,643 674 140 544,485 – financial 249,147 15,015 7,623 4,154 4,966 981 125 539 282,550 of which: repos 98,869 9,497 5,050 3,711 3,888 – – 500 121,515 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 6,910 – – – – – – – 6,910 Trading liabilities 161,231 11,405 4,886 2,844 3,653 6,323 7,979 8,704 207,025 – repos 2,565 9,763 2,715 1,012 1,279 87 – – 17,421 – debt securities in issue 1,217 1,642 2,171 1,832 2,374 6,236 7,979 8,704 32,155 – other trading liabilities 157,449 – – – – – – – 157,449 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 4,907 157 92 2,266 68 9,348 21,544 50,702 89,084 – debt securities in issue: covered bonds – – – 1,268 – 230 2,841 3,257 7,596 – debt securities in issue: otherwise secured – – – – – – – – – – debt securities in issue: unsecured 3,511 5 45 945 11 8,876 18,117 14,256 45,766 – subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – 121 – – – 21 – 21,773 21,915 – other 1,396 31 47 53 57 221 586 11,416 13,807 Derivatives 269,816 33 95 84 61 563 1,978 1,654 274,284 – trading 269,739 – – – – – – – 269,739 – non-trading 77 33 95 84 61 563 1,978 1,654 4,545 Debt securities in issue 20,739 8,280 15,734 7,442 8,106 18,552 19,850 5,377 104,080 – covered bonds – – – – – 6 92 – 98 – otherwise secured 10,450 1,051 675 1,260 764 1,857 2,313 1,013 19,383 – unsecured 10,289 7,229 15,059 6,182 7,342 16,689 17,445 4,364 84,599 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,125 208 131 98 107 49 42 5 2,765 Accruals 6,016 3,950 1,388 584 741 811 618 460 14,568 Subordinated liabilities 21 28 1,171 144 6 1,435 3,406 22,765 28,976 Other financial liabilities 17,126 6,317 1,759 598 751 971 932 471 28,925 Total financial liabilities 1,956,240 108,050 60,575 32,333 33,426 47,506 64,208 91,523 2,393,861 Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 86,998 86,998 Total liabilities 1,956,240 108,050 60,575 32,333 33,426 47,506 64,208 178,521 2,480,859 534 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2012 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 141,532 – – – – – – – 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,303 – – – – – – – 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 22,743 – – – – – – – 22,743 Trading assets 382,654 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 408,811 – reverse repos 92,525 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 118,682 – other trading assets 290,129 – – – – – – – 290,129 Financial assets designated at fair value 437 576 425 526 239 2,462 3,545 25,372 33,582 Derivatives 354,222 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 357,450 – trading 353,803 – – – – – – – 353,803 – non-trading 419 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 3,647 Loans and advances to banks 104,397 22,683 5,859 2,292 5,032 6,238 2,027 4,018 152,546 – reverse repos 28,832 3,101 2,071 356 963 138 – – 35,461 – other loans and advances to banks 75,565 19,582 3,788 1,936 4,069 6,100 2,027 4,018 117,085 Loans and advances to customers 221,242 69,709 47,507 29,659 71,928 59,100 194,147 304,331 997,623 – personal 49,042 8,578 7,242 6,763 9,547 17,696 66,684 241,329 406,881 – corporate and commercial 138,999 49,166 35,463 19,334 53,766 38,070 119,330 55,910 510,038 – financial 33,201 11,965 4,802 3,562 8,615 3,334 8,133 7,092 80,704 of which: – reverse repos 19,847 10,640 2,310 1,050 554 250 – – 34,651 Financial investments 28,085 51,339 33,996 14,072 26,478 61,443 93,127 112,561 421,101 Assets held for sale 4,953 298 515 125 669 519 1,079 9,964 18,122 Accrued income 2,776 2,325 739 493 542 164 217 1,284 8,540 Other financial assets 13,383 3,486 1,759 337 745 332 372 3,170 23,584 Total financial assets 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 461,639 2,592,937 Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 99,601 99,601 Total assets 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 561,240 2,692,538 535 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) At 31 December 2012 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 22,742 – – – – – – – 22,742 Deposits by banks 79,100 12,029 1,957 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 107,429 – repos 6,593 4,645 711 – – – – – 11,949 – other deposits by banks 72,507 7,384 1,246 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 95,480 Customer accounts1 1,193,736 67,638 34,010 11,939 16,019 7,034 8,985 653 1,340,014 – personal 539,792 35,260 21,939 7,900 11,100 4,687 3,916 307 624,901 – corporate and commercial 473,370 24,018 9,044 2,925 3,354 1,069 1,193 305 515,278 – financial 180,574 8,360 3,027 1,114 1,565 1,278 3,876 41 199,835 of which: repos 22,446 3,869 1,047 345 567 344 – – 28,618 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 7,131 7 – – – – – – 7,138 Trading liabilities 240,212 29,003 4,707 1,820 5,197 3,867 9,736 10,021 304,563 – repos 96,690 27,002 3,319 985 2,227 – – – 130,223 – debt securities in issue 380 2,001 1,388 835 2,970 3,867 9,736 10,021 31,198 – other trading liabilities 143,142 – – – – – – – 143,142 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 427 81 2,068 2,163 1,605 2,916 28,902 49,558 87,720 – debt securities in issue: covered bonds – – – – – – 4,633 – 4,633 – debt securities in issue: otherwise secured – 8 2,023 – 22 2,040 228 221 4,542 – debt securities in issue: unsecured 392 49 1 2,117 1,357 690 23,495 15,933 44,034 – subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – – – 21 21,538 21,559 – other 35 24 44 46 226 186 525 11,866 12,952 Derivatives 352,696 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 358,886 – trading 352,195 – – – – – – – 352,195 – non-trading 501 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 6,691 Debt securities in issue 23,738 12,368 6,355 2,840 27,992 11,992 29,100 5,076 119,461 – covered bonds – – 1,133 422 757 2,328 1,920 486 7,046 – otherwise secured 14,598 1,894 – 184 753 1,634 5,779 950 25,792 – unsecured 9,140 10,474 5,222 2,234 26,482 8,030 21,401 3,640 86,623 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,475 242 433 254 188 166 45 – 3,803 Accruals 3,369 4,173 907 521 1,200 232 419 842 11,663 Subordinated liabilities 32 44 – 10 – 1,481 1,516 26,396 29,479 Other financial liabilities 19,837 4,881 2,115 519 867 599 1,409 2,190 32,417 Total financial liabilities 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 97,147 2,425,315 Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 84,094 84,094 Total liabilities 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 181,241 2,509,409 1 Includes US$355,980m (2012: US$366,203m) insured by guarantee schemes. 536 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Loan and other credit-related commitments 953 – – – – – – – 953 At 31 December 2012 Loan and other credit-related commitments 2,455 3 8 5 8 25 75 98 2,677 Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Loan and other credit-related commitments 404,598 45,255 18,770 16,927 20,242 13,320 46,652 21,839 587,603 Of which: – personal 148,541 14,700 454 10,683 12,131 1,273 704 6,469 194,955 – corporate and commercial 225,333 29,191 17,794 5,662 4,879 9,009 41,851 12,096 345,815 – financial 30,724 1,364 522 582 3,232 3,038 4,097 3,274 46,833 At 31 December 2012 Loan and other credit-related commitments 408,815 43,394 8,389 5,191 37,751 11,598 45,910 18,421 579,469 Of which: – personal 153,255 6,999 704 185 19,049 1,216 1,616 8,159 191,183 – corporate and commercial 225,899 34,368 6,365 4,951 15,412 9,488 37,179 8,593 342,255 – financial 29,661 2,027 1,320 55 3,290 894 7,115 1,669 46,031 537 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments At 31 December 2013 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 407 – – – – – – – 407 Derivatives 2,789 – – – – – – – 2,789 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 8,394 4,374 7,595 14 16 – – 32,951 53,344 Financial investments 23 – 8 – – – 330 849 1,210 Other financial assets 10 – – – – – – – 10 Total financial assets 11,623 4,374 7,603 14 16 – 330 33,800 57,760 Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 93,076 93,076 Total assets 11,623 4,374 7,603 14 16 – 330 126,876 150,836 Financial liabilities Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings 3,770 12 2,234 – 1 – 463 5,205 11,685 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – – – – – – 1,283 19,744 21,027 – debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,283 6,823 8,106 – subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – – – – 12,921 12,921 Derivatives 704 – – – – – – – 704 Debt securities in issue – – 1,721 – – – – 1,070 2,791 Accruals 777 109 261 22 – – – – 1,169 Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – 2,210 11,957 14,167 Total financial liabilities 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 – 3,956 37,976 51,543 Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 206 206 Total liabilities 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 – 3,956 38,182 51,749 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1,245 – – – – – – – 1,245 538 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2012 Due not more than 1 month Due over 1 month but not more than 3 months Due over 3 months but not more than 6 months Due over 6 months but not more than 9 months Due over 9 months but not more than 1 year Due over 1 year but not more than 2 years Due over 2 years but not more than 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 353 – – – – – – – 353 Derivatives 3,768 – – – – – – – 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 6,275 2,395 3,992 – 15 35 635 28,328 41,675 Financial investments 23 – 8 – – – – 1,177 1,208 Other financial assets 4 – – – – – – – 4 Total financial assets 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 29,505 47,008 Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 92,476 92,476 Total assets 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 121,981 139,484 Financial liabilities Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings 3,576 19 980 – – – 1,333 6,948 12,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – – – – – 1,258 21,937 23,195 – debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,258 7,319 8,577 – subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – – – – 14,618 14,618 Derivatives 760 – – – – – – – 760 Debt securities in issue – – – – – 1,646 – 1,045 2,691 Accruals 223 171 190 21 – – – – 605 Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – – 11,907 11,907 Total financial liabilities 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 41,837 52,014 Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 443 443 Total liabilities 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 42,280 52,457 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1,200 – – – – – – – 1,200 539 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 34 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised financial assets Gross amounts offset in the balance sheet Amounts presented in the balance sheet Amounts not offset in the balance sheet Financial instruments1 Cash collateral received Net amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Derivatives2 (Note 18) 569,595 (287,330 ) 282,265 (215,957 ) (36,387 ) 29,921 Reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar agreements3 288,903 (88,775 ) 200,128 (197,287 ) (57 ) 2,784 Classified as: – trading assets 39,008 (18,570 ) 20,438 (20,438 ) – – – loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 106,684 (15,209 ) 91,475 (88,711 ) (39 ) 2,725 – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 143,211 (54,996 ) 88,215 (88,138 ) (18 ) 59 Loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos at amortised cost4 192,437 (92,654 ) 99,783 (89,419 ) – 10,364 1,050,935 (468,759 ) 582,176 (502,663 ) (36,444 ) 43,069 At 31 December 2012 Derivatives2 (Note 18) 729,679 (372,229 ) 357,450 (271,944 ) (38,915 ) 46,591 Reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar agreements3 293,953 (89,089 ) 204,864 (202,575 ) (214 ) 2,075 Classified as: – trading assets 195,112 (60,360 ) 134,752 (134,328 ) – 424 – loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 42,430 (6,969 ) 35,461 (33,721 ) (170 ) 1,570 – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 56,411 (21,760 ) 34,651 (34,526 ) (44 ) 81 Loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos at amortised cost4 172,530 (89,838 ) 82,692 (76,761 ) – 5,931 1,196,162 (551,156 ) 645,006 (551,280 ) (39,129 ) 54,597 1 Including non-cash collateral. 2 Including amounts that are both subject to and not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements. 3 For the amount of reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 221. In the analysis above, the US$20,438m (2012: US$134,752m) of trading assets presented in the balance sheet comprised US$10,120m of reverse repos (2012: US$118,681m) and US$10,318m of stock borrowing (US$16,071m). 4 At 31 December 2013, the total amount of loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos at amortised cost was US$992,089m (2012: US$962,972m) of which US$99,783m (2012: US$82,692m) was subject to offsetting. For the amount of loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos at amortised cost recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 221. 540 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amountsof recognised financial liabilities Gross amounts offset inthe balance sheet Amounts presented in the balance sheet Amounts not offset in the balance sheet Financial instruments1 Cash collateral pledged Net amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Derivatives2 (Note 18) 561,614 (287,330 ) 274,284 (216,596 ) (29,093 ) 28,595 Repos, stock lending and similar agreements3 282,634 (88,775 ) 193,859 (193,354 ) (81 ) 424 Classified as: – trading liabilities 48,209 (18,570 ) 29,639 (29,625 ) – 14 – deposits by banks at amortised cost 57,914 (15,209 ) 42,705 (42,375 ) (70 ) 260 – customer accounts at amortised cost 176,511 (54,996 ) 121,515 (121,354 ) (11 ) 150 Customer accounts excluding repos at amortised cost4 195,153 (92,654 ) 102,499 (89,394 ) – 13,105 1,039,401 (468,759 ) 570,642 (499,344 ) (29,174 ) 42,124 At 31 December 2012 Derivatives2 (Note 18) 731,115 (372,229 ) 358,886 (275,723 ) (39,594 ) 43,569 Repos, stock lending and similar agreements3 266,697 (89,089 ) 177,608 (176,573 ) (94 ) 941 Classified as: – trading liabilities 197,401 (60,360 ) 137,041 (136,173 ) – 868 – deposits by banks at amortised cost 18,918 (6,969 ) 11,949 (11,857 ) (92 ) – – customer accounts at amortised cost 50,378 (21,760 ) 28,618 (28,543 ) (2 ) 73 Customer accounts excluding repos at amortised cost4 180,494 (89,838 ) 90,656 (76,761 ) – 13,895 1,178,306 (551,156 ) 627,150 (529,057 ) (39,688 ) 58,405 1 Including non-cash collateral. 2 Including amounts that are both subject to and not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements. 3 For the amount of repos, stock lending and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 221. In the analysis above, the US$29,639m (2012: US$137,041m) of trading liabilities presented in the balance sheet comprised US$17,421m of repos (2012: US$130,223m) and US$12,218m of stock lending (US$6,818m). 4 At 31 December 2013, the total amount of customer accounts excluding repos at amortised cost was US$1,361,297m (2012: US$1,311,396m) of which US$102,499m (2012: US$90,656m) was subject to offsetting. For the amount of customer accounts excluding repos at amortised cost recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 221. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously (‘the offset criteria’). Derivatives and reverse repurchase/repurchase agreements included in the ‘Amounts not offset in the balance sheet’ column relate to transactions where: • the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right of set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied; and • cash and non-cash collateral received/pledged in respect of the transactions described above. The Group offsets certain loans and advances to customers and customer accounts when the offset criteria are met and the amounts presented above represent this subset of the total amounts recognised in the balance sheet. Of this subset, the loans and advances to customers and customer accounts included in ‘Amounts not offset in the balance sheet’ column primarily relate to transactions where the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and an agreement is in place with the right of offset but the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied. 541 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 35 Foreign exchange exposures Structural foreign exchange exposures HSBC’s structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity and subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar functional currencies. Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. HSBC’s management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed on page 285. In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural foreign exchange exposures in the income statement. Net structural foreign exchange exposures At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Currency of structural exposure Pound sterling 28,403 27,305 Euro 22,014 23,945 Chinese renminbi 20,932 19,060 Hong Kong dollars 18,974 14,466 Mexican pesos 5,932 5,948 Brazilian reais 5,581 6,279 Canadian dollars 4,372 5,024 Indian rupees 3,222 3,967 UAE dirhams 3,069 2,807 Saudi riyals 2,531 2,219 Malaysian ringgit 2,194 2,165 Swiss francs 1,940 2,925 Turkish lira 1,533 1,787 Taiwanese dollars 1,527 1,513 Australian dollars 1,515 1,602 Korean won 1,373 1,520 Indonesian rupiah 1,244 1,317 Argentine pesos 1,067 1,054 Singapore dollars 849 874 Egyptian pounds 739 699 Qatari rial 624 599 Thailand baht 593 653 Philippine pesos 553 787 Others, each less than US$500m 4,387 4,931 Total 135,168 133,446 Shareholders’ equity would decrease by US$2,521m (2012: US$2,562m) if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar. 36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities Assets pledged at 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 6,387 4,381 Loans and advances to banks 17,733 22,074 Loans and advances to customers 87,894 81,333 Debt securities 190,095 198,671 Equity shares 8,816 6,255 Other 1,035 1,090 311,960 313,804 The table above shows assets where a charge has been granted to secure liabilities on a legal and contractual basis. The amount of such assets may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral for funding purposes or to cover liabilities. This is the case for securitisations and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued, plus any mandatory over-collateralisation, is less than the book value of financial assets available for funding or collateral 542 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) purposes in the relevant pool of assets. This is also the case where financial assets are placed with a custodian or settlement agent which has a floating charge over all the financial assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. Collateral accepted as security for assets The fair value of assets accepted as collateral in relation to reverse repo and stock borrowing that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$259,617m (2012: US$295,709m). The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$186,013m (2012: US$202,662m). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements. 37 Non-controlling interests At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 5,900 5,159 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 2,688 2,728 8,588 7,887 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if the dividend is not paid, it may not be cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up. These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. Dividends on floating rate preferred securities are generally related to interbank offer rates. Included in the capital base of HSBC are non-cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 1 capital and cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 2 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in GENPRU. Preferred securities issued by HSBC’s subsidiaries At 31 December First call date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m HSBC USA Inc. US$150m Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, series D Jul 1999 150 150 US$150m Cumulative preferred stock Oct 2007 150 150 US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F Apr 2010 518 518 US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G Jan 2011 374 374 US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H Jul 2011 374 374 HSBC Finance Corporation US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B Jun 2010 559 559 HSBC Bank Canada CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 164 176 CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 164 176 CAD250m Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, series E Jun 2014 235 251 2,688 2,728 543 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 38 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Issued and fully paid HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares1 9,415 9,238 Number US$m At 1 January 2013 18,476,008,664 9,238 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 120,033,493 60 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 233,964,882 117 At 31 December 2013 18,830,007,039 9,415 At 1 January 2012 17,868,085,646 8,934 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 238,587,766 119 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 369,335,252 185 At 31 December 2012 18,476,008,664 9,238 HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each Number US$m At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 20132 1,450,000 – At 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 1,450,000 – 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting. 2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 1 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in GENPRU. Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue (‘dollar preference shares’) are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the PRA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the dollar preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the dollar preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period. The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings. Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates. In such circumstances, holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference shares. HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the PRA. HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 in issue (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company. Other equity instruments Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC were issued in accordance with the rules and guidance in the PRA’s GENPRU. These securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA. If not redeemed at the first call date interest coupons remain unchanged. 544 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Tier 1 capital securities Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any securities of lower or equal rank. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. At HSBC Holdings’ discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue. The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid. HSBC’s qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity At 31 December First call date 2013 US$m 2012 US$m US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 5,851 5,851 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 7. Aggregate options outstanding under these plans Number of HSBC Holdingsordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2013 119,085,250 2013 to 2019 £3.3116 – 7.9911 24,215,341 2013 to 2018 HK$37.8797 – 92.5881 1,574,652 2013 to 2018 €3.6361 – 7.5571 3,997,069 2013 to 2018 US$4.8876 – 11.8824 31 December 2012 159,703,771 2013 to 2018 £3.3116 – 7.9911 31,637,840 2013 to 2018 HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 2,180,263 2013 to 2018 €3.6361 – 9.5912 6,488,894 2013 to 2018 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 31 December 2011 216,078,250 2012 to 2017 £3.3116 – 7.9911 45,422,511 2012 to 2017 HK$37.8797 –94.5057 3,176,265 2012 to 2017 €3.6361 – 9.5912 9,752,066 2012 to 2017 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 HSBC Bank Bermuda plans Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all outstanding options over HSBC Bank Bermuda shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda Share) by the average price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares over the five-day period to the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. During 2012 and 2013 there were no options exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and no shares were delivered from the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004. During 2013, options over 149,924 (2012: 880,983) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. At 31 December 2013, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held nil (2012: 2,108,830) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 545 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Bank Bermuda share plan Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2013 – 2013 US$ 9.32 – 10.33 31 December 2012 149,924 2013 US$9.32 – 10.33 31 December 2011 1,030,907 2012 to 2013 US$9.32 – 15.99 Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares At 31 December 2013, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements, together with GPSP awards and restricted share awards granted under the HSBC Share Plan and/or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 265,534,885 (2012: 364,082,766). The total number of shares at 31 December 2013 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 12,068,136 (2012: 18,009,459). 39 Notes on the statement of cash flows Other non-cash items included in profit before tax HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,330 2,531 3,135 35 457 Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates (1,051 ) – (208 ) – – Revaluations on investment property (113 ) (72 ) (118 ) – – Share-based payment expense 630 988 1,162 49 55 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 7,356 9,358 13,553 – – Provisions 2,578 5,732 2,199 – – Impairment of financial investments (36 ) 519 808 – – Charge/(credit) for defined benefit plans 121 476 (140 ) – – Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums 180 246 (513 ) (10 ) 23 11,995 19,778 19,878 74 535 Change in operating assets HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Change in loans to HSBC undertakings – – – (11,669 ) (3,451 ) Change in prepayments and accrued income (1,568 ) 557 1,907 (65 ) (5 ) Change in net trading securities and net derivatives (24,870 ) (36,829 ) 27,058 923 (507 ) Change in loans and advances to banks (21,578 ) 1,083 2,618 – – Change in loans and advances to customers (100,115 ) (72,619 ) (30,853 ) – – Change in financial assets designated at fair value (4,922 ) (2,698 ) (583 ) – – Change in other assets 4,154 (6,015 ) (7,559 ) 16 (48 ) (148,899 ) (116,521 ) (7,412 ) (10,795 ) (4,011 ) Change in operating liabilities HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Change in accruals and deferred income 3,085 78 (800 ) 248 10 Change in deposits by banks 22,975 (5,393 ) 2,238 – – Change in customer accounts 150,262 90,071 48,401 – – Change in debt securities in issue (15,381 ) (11,552 ) (14,388 ) 98 86 Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value 994 2,549 5,468 (550 ) 2,464 Change in other liabilities 2,822 13,317 3,093 (857 ) 391 164,757 89,070 44,012 (1,061 ) 2,951 546 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Cash and cash equivalents HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings – – – 407 353 Cash and balances at central banks 166,599 141,532 129,902 – – Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,021 7,303 8,208 – – Loans and advances to banks of one month or less 164,591 148,232 169,858 – – Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months 15,980 25,379 26,226 – – Less: items in the course of transmission to other banks (6,910 ) (7,138 ) (8,745 ) – – 346,281 315,308 325,449 407 353 Interest and dividends HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Interest paid (17,262 ) (18,412 ) (23,125 ) (2,705 ) (2,661 ) Interest received 50,823 61,112 66,734 1,986 1,759 Dividends received 1,133 766 602 20,925 13,709 The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2013 was US$38,019m (2012: US$32,368m), of which US$21,811m (2012: US$20,464m) related to mandatory deposits at central banks. Disposal of subsidiaries and businesses In October 2013, we completed the disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A., receiving total cash consideration of US$2,210m which is included under ‘Cash flow from investing activities’ in the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 420. The effect of disposals of subsidiaries and businesses in 2012 is tabulated below. 2012 US cards businessUS$m US branch networkUS$m Other disposalsUS$m TotalUS$m Assets Loans and advances to banks – – 799 799 Loans and advances to customers 26,748 2,091 3,632 32,471 Financial investments – – 924 924 Prepayments and accrued income 572 – 53 625 Goodwill and intangible assets 318 7 276 601 Other assets 369 68 1,618 2,055 Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 28,007 2,166 7,302 37,475 Liabilities Deposits by banks – – 385 385 Customer accounts – 13,199 5,986 19,185 Liabilities under insurance contracts – – 1,080 1,080 Other liabilities 161 7 1,012 1,180 Total liabilities 161 13,206 8,463 21,830 Aggregate net assets at date of disposal, excluding cash and cash equivalents 27,846 (11,040 ) (1,161 ) 15,645 Non-controlling interests disposed – – (81 ) (81 ) Gain on disposal including costs to sell 3,148 864 355 4,367 Add back: costs to sell 72 15 56 143 Selling price 31,066 (10,161 ) (831 ) 20,074 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents received/(paid) as consideration 31,066 (10,091 ) (542 ) 20,433 Cash and cash equivalents sold – (70 ) (321 ) (391 ) Cash consideration received/(paid) up to 31 December 2012 31,066 (10,161 ) (863 ) 20,042 Cash still to be received at 31 December 2012 – – 32 32 Total cash consideration 31,066 (10,161 ) (831 ) 20,074 547 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees HSBC HSBC Holdings 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees 84,554 80,364 52,836 49,402 Other contingent liabilities 182 209 – – 84,736 80,573 52,836 49,402 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 12,154 13,359 – – Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 1,005 419 – – Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 574,444 565,691 1,245 1,200 587,603 579,469 1,245 1,200 The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments excluding capital commitments, which are separately disclosed below, and guarantees and other contingent liabilities, which are mainly credit-related instruments including both financial and non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit. Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings and regulatory matters against Group companies are disclosed in Note 43. Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default. The amount of the loan commitments shown above reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers. As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements. Guarantees HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third-party customers and other entities within the HSBC Group. These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBC’s banking business. The principal types of guarantees provided and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be required to make at 31 December 2013 were as follows: At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Guarantees in favour of third partiesUS$m Guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entitiesUS$m Guarantees in favour of third partiesUS$m Guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entitiesUS$m Guarantee type Financial guarantees1 31,224 36,800 32,036 36,800 Credit-related guarantees2 15,076 16,036 12,957 12,602 Other guarantees 38,254 – 35,371 – 84,554 52,836 80,364 49,402 1 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. 2 Credit-related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract under IAS 39. The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBC’s maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings. The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBC’s overall credit risk management policies and procedures. Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year. Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s annual credit review process. 548 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a number of deposit takers. The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans from the Bank of England and HM Treasury which at 31 December 2013 stood at approximately £17 billion (US$28.1bn). In order to repay the loan principal which is not expected to be recovered, the FSCS confirmed in February 2013 that it would levy approximately £363m (US$587m) in Scheme Year 2013/2014 and in the following two Scheme Years on participating financial institutions. In January 2014, the FSCS announced that the expected levy on participating financial institutions for Scheme Year 2014/2015 would be £399m (US$660m). HSBC could be liable to pay a further proportion of the outstanding borrowings that the FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury. The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is dependent on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time. Capital commitments In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 548, at 31 December 2013 HSBC had US$401m (2012: US$607m) of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$112m (2012: US$197m) of capital commitments authorised but not contracted for. Associates HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities amounted to US$46,574m at 31 December 2013 (2012: US$46,148m). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable. 41 Lease commitments Finance lease commitments HSBC leases land and buildings (including branches) and equipment from third parties under finance lease arrangements to support its operations. At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Total futureminimumpaymentsUS$m Futureinterest chargesUS$m Present value of finance lease commitmentsUS$m Total futureminimumpaymentsUS$m Futureinterest chargesUS$m Present valueof financeleasecommitmentsUS$m Lease commitments: – no later than one year 59 (23 ) 36 81 (21 ) 60 – later than one year and no later than five years 132 (76 ) 56 153 (71 ) 82 – later than five years 185 (25 ) 160 196 (34 ) 162 376 (124 ) 252 430 (126 ) 304 At 31 December 2013, future minimum sublease payments of US$237m (2012: US$244m) were expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2013, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years. 549 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Land and buildingsUS$m EquipmentUS$m Land and buildingsUS$m EquipmentUS$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: – no later than one year 960 11 943 23 – later than one year and no later than five years 2,499 14 2,495 23 – later than five years 2,007 5 2,246 – 5,466 30 5,684 46 At 31 December 2013, future minimum sublease payments of US$10m (2012: US$14m) were expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. In 2013, US$1,425m (2012: US$1,166m; 2011: US$973m) was charged to ‘General and administrative expenses’ in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$1,098m (2012: US$1,149m; 2011: US$952m) related to minimum lease payments, US$326m (2012: US$17m; 2011: US$20m) to contingent rents, and US$1m (2012: US$0.4m; 2011: US$1m) to sublease payments. The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses. Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property and general plant and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved. Lease rentals arising during the lease terms will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates. Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Total futureminimum paymentsUS$m Unearned finance incomeUS$m Present valueUS$m Total futureminimum paymentsUS$m Unearned finance incomeUS$m Present valueUS$m Lease receivables: – no later than one year 3,370 (360 ) 3,010 3,712 (379 ) 3,333 – later than one year and no later than five years 7,933 (990 ) 6,943 8,414 (966 ) 7,448 – later than five years 5,064 (856 ) 4,208 5,277 (951 ) 4,326 16,367 (2,206 ) 14,161 17,403 (2,296 ) 15,107 At 31 December 2013, unguaranteed residual values of US$205m (2012: US$253m) had been accrued, and the accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$7m (2012: US$3m). No contingent rents were received in 2013 (2012: nil). 42 Structured entities HSBC is involved with structured entities, mainly through securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds. HSBC arrangements that involve structured entities are authorised centrally when they are established to ensure appropriate purpose and governance. The activities of structured entities administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management. HSBC has involvement with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities, which may be established by HSBC or by a third party, as detailed below. Structured entities are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1(e). 550 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated structured entities Total assets of HSBC’s consolidated structured entities, split by entity type Conduits US$bn SecuritisationsUS$bn HSBC managed fundsUS$bn OtherUS$bn TotalUS$bn At 31 December 2013 38.9 7.1 13.9 8.2 68.1 At 31 December 2012 38.4 9.0 12.1 3.5 63.0 Conduits HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s) and multi-seller conduits. These entities have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who has control; in such cases, the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangement. The conduits are consolidated as HSBC is exposed or has the right to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect its returns through its power over the entity. Securities investment conduits Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, purchases highly rated asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) to facilitate tailored investment opportunities. At 31 December 2013, Solitaire held US$9.0bn of ABSs (2012: US$10.0bn). These are included within the disclosures of ABS ‘held through consolidated structured entities’ on page 206. HSBC’s other SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from the restructuring of HSBC’s structured investment vehicles (‘SIV’s) in 2008. • Solitaire – Solitaire is currently funded entirely by commercial paper ‘CP’ issued to HSBC. Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it so long as HSBC purchases the CP issued, which it intends to do for the foreseeable future. At 31 December 2013, HSBC held US$11.0bn of CP (2012: US$13.0bn). • Mazarin – HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin’s assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lesser of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets. At 31 December 2013, this amounted to US$7.4bn (2012: US$8.4bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties. At 31 December 2013, HSBC held 1.3% of Mazarin’s capital notes (2012: 1.3%) with a par value of US$17m (2012: US$17m) and a carrying amount of US$0.3m (2012: nil). • Barion and Malachite – HSBC’s primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles. At 31 December 2013, this amounted to US$6.3bn (2012: US$7.4bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially all held by third parties. At 31 December 2013, HSBC held 3.8 % of the capital notes (2012: 3.7%) issued by these vehicles with a par value of US$37m (2012: US$36m) and a carrying amount of US$3.3m (2012: US$1.7m). Multi-seller conduits These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for HSBC’s clients. HSBC bears risk equal to transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits amounting to US$15.7bn at 31 December 2013 (2012: US$14.3bn). First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities. Securitisations HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by 551 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors. HSBC managed funds HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds. Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls and hence consolidates these funds. Other HSBC has also entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business which include asset and structured finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity. In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds. Unconsolidated structured entities The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to all structured entities that are not controlled by HSBC. HSBC enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities. The table below shows the total assets of unconsolidated structured entities in which HSBC has an interest at the reporting date, as well as its maximum exposure to loss in relation to those interests. The maximum exposure to loss from HSBC’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss that HSBC could incur as a result of HSBC’s involvement with unconsolidated structured entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred. • For commitments and guarantees, and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses. • For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date. The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements entered into to mitigate HSBC’s exposure to loss. 552 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities Securitisations US$bn HSBC managed funds US$bn Non-HSBC managed funds US$bn Other US$bn Total US$bn At 31 December 2013 Total assets of the entities 9.6 290.3 2,843.3 26.7 3,169.9 HSBC’s interest – assets Cash – – – – – Trading assets – 0.1 0.2 3.8 4.1 Financial assets designated at fair value – 5.1 1.4 – 6.5 Derivatives – – – 1.2 1.2 Loans and advances to customers 0.9 – – 1.5 2.4 Financial investments – 2.3 5.4 0.1 7.8 Other assets – 0.1 – – 0.1 Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.9 7.6 7.0 6.6 22.1 HSBC’s interest – liabilities Trading liabilities – – – 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated structured entities – – – 0.1 0.1 HSBC’s maximum exposure 1.0 7.6 7.0 10.6 26.2 Total income from HSBC interests1 – 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.7 1 Income includes recurring and non-recurring fees, interest, dividends, gains or loss on the re-measurement or derecognition of interests in structured entities, any mark-to-market gains/losses on a net basis and gains or losses from the transfer of assets and liabilities to the structured entity. Securitisations HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities. HSBC managed funds HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment opportunities. Further information on ‘Funds under management’ is provided on page 130. HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management. HSBC may also retain units in these funds. Non-HSBC managed funds HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate both business and customer needs. Other HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions. HSBC sponsored structured entities The definition of a sponsor is given in Note 2(o). In some cases, HSBC does not have an interest in these entities at the reporting date. The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored entities during 2013 was not significant. 553 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. The recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material, either individually or in the aggregate. Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified. Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability. While the outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters as at 31 December 2013 (see Note 31). It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities. Securities litigation As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 states and the District of Columbia relating to real estate lending practices, Household International and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit, Jaffe v. Household International, Inc., et al. (N.D. Ill. No. 02 C5893), filed 19 August 2002 in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (‘District Court’). The complaint asserted claims under § 10 and § 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household International’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which ultimately led to the 2002 state settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the restatement. Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between 30 July 1999 and 11 October 2002. A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs. Various legal challenges to the verdict were raised in post-trial briefing. In December 2011, following the submission of claim forms by class members, the Court-appointed claims administrator to the District Court reported that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate amount of these claims was approximately US$2.2bn. The defendants filed legal challenges regarding the presumption of reliance as to the class and compliance with the claims form requirements, which the District Court in September 2012 rejected for the most part. The District Court directed further proceedings before a court-appointed Special Master to address certain claim submission issues. On 4 October 2013, the District Court denied the defendants’ additional post-trial motions for judgement as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial, and granted plaintiffs’ motions for a partial final judgement and awarded pre-judgement interest at the Prime rate, compounded annually. Subsequently, on 17 October 2013, the District Court entered a partial final judgement against the defendants in the amount of approximately US$2.46bn. In addition to the partial judgement that has been entered, there also remain approximately US$527m in claims, prior to imposition of prejudgement interest, that still are subject to objections that have not yet been ruled upon by the District Court. The defendants have filed a Notice of Appeal of the partial final judgement. The defendants have also filed a Supersedeas Bond in the approximate amount of the judgement (US$2.46bn) in order to stay execution on the judgement pending appeal. Despite the jury verdict, the various rulings of the District Court, and the partial final judgement, we continue to believe that we have meritorious grounds for appeal. The timing and outcome of the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain. Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible damages. We believe we have meritorious grounds for appeal on matters of both liability and damages, and will argue on appeal that damages should be zero or a relatively insignificant amount. If the Appeals Court rejects or only partially accepts our arguments, the amount of damages, based upon the claims submitted and the application of pre-judgement interest at the Prime rate as ordered by the District Court, may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an amount up to or exceeding US$3.5bn. Once a judgement is entered (such as the approximately US$2.46bn partial final judgement entered on 17 October 2013), post-judgement interest accrues on the judgement at a rate equal to the weekly average of the 1-year constant maturity treasury yield as published by the Federal Reserve System. A provision has been made based on management’s best estimate of probable outflows. 554 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC In December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme and a trustee was appointed for the liquidation of his firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), an SEC-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Since his appointment, the trustee has been recovering assets and processing claims of Madoff Securities customers. Madoff subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges and is serving a 150 year prison sentence. He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ money in securities and, upon request, return their profits and principal, he in fact never invested in securities and used other customers’ money to fulfil requests for the return of profits and principal. The relevant US authorities are continuing their investigations into his fraud, and have brought charges against others, including certain former employees and the former auditor of Madoff Securities. Madoff was sentenced in June 2009. Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC to date, we estimate that the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. Plaintiffs (including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee) have commenced Madoff-related proceedings against numerous defendants in a multitude of jurisdictions. Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions. Certain suits (which include US putative class actions) allege that the HSBC defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s fraud and breached various duties to the funds and fund investors. In December 2011, claims against HSBC and other defendants by fund investors in three related putative class actions pending in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York were dismissed on grounds of forum non conveniens. In September 2013, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the claims. The plaintiffs have requested a rehearing of their appeal, and that request remains pending. In July and December 2013, settlements were reached in respect of the claim by Thema International Fund plc and AA (Alternative Advantage) Plc respectively against HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Ireland) Limited in the Irish High Court. The Madoff Securities Trustee has commenced suits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court. The US action (which also names certain funds, investment managers, and other entities and individuals) sought US$9bn in damages and additional recoveries from HSBC and the various co-defendants and alleged that HSBC aided and abetted Madoff’s fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. In July 2011, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed the trustee’s various common law claims on the grounds that the trustee lacks standing to assert them, and that dismissal was affirmed in a decision issued by the Second Circuit in June 2013. On 9 October 2013, the Trustee filed a petition for writ of certiorari to review the Second Circuit’s decision with the US Supreme Court. The HSBC defendants filed their response to the petition for writ of certiorari on 16 December 2013. The Supreme Court has issued an order inviting the US Solicitor General to file a brief in the case expressing the views of the US government on the petition. The Trustee’s remaining US claims seek, pursuant to US bankruptcy law, recovery of unspecified amounts received by HSBC from funds invested with Madoff, including amounts that HSBC received when it redeemed units HSBC held in the various funds in connection with financing transactions HSBC had entered into with various clients, as well as fees earned by HSBC for providing custodial, administration and similar services to the funds. These claims remain pending. The trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers of money from Madoff Securities to or through HSBC, on the ground that the HSBC defendants actually or constructively knew of Madoff’s fraud. HSBC has not been served with the trustee’s English action. 555 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Between October 2009 and April 2012, Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (‘Fairfield’), funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the British Virgin Islands (‘BVI’) and the US against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who invested in the Fairfield funds. The Fairfield actions seek restitution of amounts paid to the defendants in connection with share redemptions, on the ground that such payments were made by mistake, based on inflated values resulting from Madoff’s fraud, and some actions also seek recovery of the share redemptions under BVI insolvency law. The actions in the US are currently stayed in the Bankruptcy Court pending developments in related appellate litigation in the BVI. There are many factors which may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings, including but not limited to the circumstances of the fraud, the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in such proceedings. For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all such claims but they could be significant. In any event, HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously. US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (‘OCC’) and HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board (together with the OCC, the ‘Servicing Consent Orders’) following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices. These consent orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work with the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board to align their processes with the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required. The Servicing Consent Orders required an independent review of foreclosures (the ‘Independent Foreclosure Review’) pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. As required by the Servicing Consent Orders, an independent consultant was retained to conduct that review. On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the OCC, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board, (together the ‘IFR Settlement Agreements’), pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review has ceased and been replaced by a broader framework under which we and 12 other participating servicers will, in the aggregate, provide in excess of US$9.3bn in cash payments and other assistance to help eligible borrowers. Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreements, HNAH has made a cash payment of US$96m into a fund used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, will provide other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. Borrowers who receive compensation will not be required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be precluded from pursuing litigation concerning foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices. For participating servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance, fulfilment of the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreements will satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders, including the wind down of the Independent Foreclosure Review. The Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders. Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreement with the OCC, however, the OCC has agreed that it will not assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with respect to past mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related practices addressed in the Servicing Consent Orders, provided the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreement are fulfilled. The OCC’s agreement not to assess civil money penalties is further conditioned on HNAH making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans within two years. The Federal Reserve Board has agreed that any assessment of civil money penalties by the Federal Reserve Board will reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection 556 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) with the servicing of residential mortgage loans. In addition, the IFR Settlement Agreements do not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. Separate from the Servicing Consent Orders and the settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, in February 2012 five of the largest US mortgage servicers (not including HSBC companies) reached a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. Following this settlement, these government agencies initiated discussions with mortgage industry servicers. HNAH, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not currently known. HSBC has recognised a provision to reflect the estimated liability associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors. These practices have in the past resulted in private litigation and such a settlement would not preclude further private litigation concerning these practices. US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation HSBC Bank USA has been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten by HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (‘HSI’). During 2005-2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold US$24bn of such loans to HSI which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties. The outstanding principal balance on these loans was approximately US$6.4bn and US$7.4bn at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, respectively. Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the US mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitisation trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and the related liability are properly those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in a number of actions in connection with residential mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. These include an action filed in September 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (‘FHFA’), acting in its capacity as conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’) in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York (the ‘District Court’) against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’), HSI and HSI Asset Securitization (‘HASCO’) and five former and current officers and directors of HASCO, seeking damages or rescission of mortgage-backed securities purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were either underwritten or sponsored by HSBC companies. The aggregate unpaid principal balance of the securities was approximately US$1.6bn at 31 December 2013. This action, captioned Federal Housing Finance Agency, as Conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation v. HSBC North America Holdings Inc., et al. (S.D.N.Y. No. CV 11-6189-LAK), is one of a series of similar actions filed against 17 financial institutions alleging violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with the sale of private-label RMBS purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, primarily from 2005 to 2008. These actions were transferred to a single judge, who directed the defendant in the first-filed matter, UBS, to file a motion to dismiss. In May 2012, the District Court filed its decision denying the motion to dismiss FHFA’s securities law claims and granting the motion to dismiss FHFA’s negligent misrepresentation claims. The District Court’s ruling formed the basis for rulings on the other matters, including the action filed against HSBC Bank USA and its affiliates. On 5 April 2013, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling of the District Court. In January 2013, the FHFA parties met with the Magistrate Judge to discuss how to structure mediation. Since that time, a number of the FHFA defendants have resolved their lawsuits. 557 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Discovery in HSBC’s case continues. Factual discovery closed in December 2013. Expert discovery is scheduled to continue through the end of July 2014, with the summary judgement motion scheduled to be fully briefed by the end of July 2014. These dates are subject to change by the court. The timing and outcome of this matter is uncertain. It is possible that HSBC could be found liable to pay damages. Based upon the information currently available, it is possible that these damages could be as high as US$1.6bn. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC (a subsidiary of HSBC Finance) have been named as defendants in a number of mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of securitisation trusts. These actions include (i) Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee of HASCO 2007-NC1 v. HSBC Bank USA; (ii) Deutsche Bank, as Trustee of MSAC 2007-HE6 v. Decision One and HSBC Finance Corp., and (iii) Deutsche Bank, as Trustee of HASCO 2007-HE2 v. Decision One, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank USA. In the aggregate, these actions seek to have the HSBC defendants repurchase mortgage loans, or pay compensatory damages in lieu of repurchase, totalling at least US$1bn. On 13 January 2014 HSBC Bank USA filed a motion to dismiss the Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee of HASCO 2007-NC1 v. HSBC Bank USA matter. HSBC Finance was dismissed, on motion, as a defendant in Deutsche Bank, as Trustee of MSAC 2007-HE6 v. Decision One and HSBC Finance Corp., but the case remains pending against Decision One Mortgage Company LLC. One other mortgage loan repurchase action against Decision One, Seagull Point LLC, individually and on behalf of the MSAC 2007-HE5 Trust v. Decision One Mortgage Company LLC, et al. was dismissed voluntarily in January 2014. In December 2010 and February 2011, HSBC Bank USA received subpoenas from the SEC seeking production of documents and information relating to its involvement and the involvement of its affiliates in specified private-label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. HSBC Bank USA has also had preliminary contacts with other government authorities exploring the role of trustees in private-label RMBS transactions. In February 2011, HSBC Bank USA also received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s Office, Southern District of New York seeking production of documents and information relating to loss mitigation efforts with respect to residential mortgages in the State of New York. In January 2012, HSI was served with a Civil Investigative Demand from the Massachusetts State Attorney General seeking documents, information and testimony related to the sale of RMBS to public and private customers in the State of Massachusetts from January 2005 to the present. HSBC expects this level of focus will continue. As a result, HSBC companies may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either individually or as a member of a group. The timing and outcome of the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the amount of any possible obligations, is highly uncertain. Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the OCC and the indirect parent of that company, HNAH, entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Federal Reserve Board (the ‘Orders’). These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across HSBC’s US businesses, including various issues relating to US Bank Secrecy Act (‘BSA’) and anti-money laundering (‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the Orders to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, in December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements with US and UK government agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with the BSA and AML and sanctions laws. Among those agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DoJ, the US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the US Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of West Virginia (the ‘US DPA’), HSBC Holdings entered into a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney (the ‘DANY DPA’), and HSBC Holdings consented to a cease and desist order and HSBC Holdings and HNAH consented to a monetary penalty order with the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’). In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into a monetary penalty consent order with FinCEN and a separate monetary penalty order with the OCC. HSBC Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’) regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC sanctions and an undertaking with the UK Financial Services Authority, now a Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) Direction, to comply with certain forward-looking AML- and sanctions-related obligations. 558 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Under these agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities and are continuing to comply with ongoing obligations. On 1 July 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York approved the US DPA and retained authority to oversee implementation of the same. Under the agreements with the DoJ, FCA, and the FRB, an independent monitor (who is, for FCA purposes, a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act) will evaluate and regularly assess the effectiveness of HSBC’s AML and sanctions compliance function and HSBC’s progress in implementing its remedial obligations under the agreements. The monitorship, which began on 22 July 2013, is proceeding as anticipated. If HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA fulfil all of the requirements imposed by the US DPA, the DoJ charges against those entities will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period of that agreement. Similarly, if HSBC Holdings fulfils all of the requirements imposed by the DANY DPA, DANY’s charges against it will be dismissed at the end of the two-year period of that agreement. The DoJ may prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA in relation to the matters which are the subject of the US DPA if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA breaches the terms of the US DPA, and DANY may prosecute HSBC Holdings in relation to the matters which are subject of the DANY DPA if HSBC Holdings violates the terms of the DANY DPA. HSBC Bank USA also entered into a separate consent order with the OCC requiring it to correct the circumstances and conditions as noted in the OCC’s then most recent report of examination and imposing certain restrictions on HSBC Bank USA directly or indirectly acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. HSBC Bank USA also entered into a separate consent order with the OCC requiring it to adopt an enterprise wide compliance programme. The settlement with US and UK authorities does not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC’s compliance with applicable AML, BSA and sanctions laws or other regulatory or law enforcement actions for AML/BSA or sanctions matters not covered by the various agreements. US tax and broker-dealer investigations HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain HSBC companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting requirements. In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ and is cooperating with the investigation. In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA that it is not eligible for the ‘Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss Banks’ since a formal investigation had been authorised. The DoJ also requested additional information from HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA and other Swiss banks regarding the transfer of assets to and from US person related accounts and employees who serviced those accounts. It is preparing this data, in a manner consistent with Swiss law. Other HSBC companies are also cooperating with the relevant US authorities, including with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC company in India. In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a summons from the US Internal Revenue Service directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC company in India. HSBC Bank USA has cooperated fully by providing responsive documents in its possession in the US to the US Internal Revenue Service. Also in April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a subpoena from the SEC directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records in the US related to, among other things, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA’s cross-border policies and procedures and adherence to US broker-dealer and investment adviser rules and regulations when dealing with US resident clients. HSBC Bank USA continues to cooperate with the SEC. HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA has also produced records and other documents to the SEC and is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. Based on the facts currently known in respect of each of these investigations, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the ongoing investigations will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amounts of fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that fines and/or penalties could be significant. London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world including in the UK, the US, the 559 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) EU, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Thailand, South Korea and elsewhere are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. As certain HSBC companies are members of such panels, HSBC has been the subject of regulatory demands for information and is cooperating with those investigations and reviews. On 14 June 2013, in conjunction with the completion of its review, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (‘MAS’) censured The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd (‘HBAP’) for deficiencies in governance, risk management, internal controls and surveillance systems in connection with its participation on the contributing panel with respect to certain foreign exchange spot benchmarks that are commonly used to settle non-deliverable forward foreign exchange contracts. At the same time, HBAP was directed to adopt measures to address the identified deficiencies, to appoint a party to ensure the robustness of its remedial measures, and to maintain additional statutory reserves with the MAS at zero interest for a period of one year. HBAP was one of twenty banks subjected to supervisory action by the MAS as a result of its review. On 4 December 2013, the European Commission (‘Commission’) announced that it had imposed fines on eight financial institutions under its cartel settlement procedure for their participation in illegal activity related to Euro interest rate derivatives and/or yen interest rate derivatives. Although HSBC was not one of the financial institutions fined, the Commission announced that it had opened proceedings against HSBC in connection with its Euribor-related investigation of Euro interest rate derivatives only. This investigation will continue under the standard Commission cartel procedure. On 3 January 2014, the Canadian Competition Bureau notified HSBC that it was discontinuing its investigation into alleged collusive conduct in the setting of Japanese yen Libor on the basis that the evidence collected was insufficient to justify prosecution under applicable law. As for ongoing regulatory investigations, reviews and proceedings, based on the facts currently known in respect of each of these, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the ongoing investigations, reviews or proceedings will be resolved and the timing of such resolutions, including the amounts of fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that fines and/or penalties could be significant. The Financial Conduct Authority is also conducting investigations alongside several other law enforcement and/or regulatory agencies in various countries into a number of firms, including HSBC, related to trading on the foreign exchange market. We are cooperating with the investigations which are ongoing. It is not practicable at this stage for HSBC to estimate reliably any possible liability that might arise. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor. These lawsuits include individual and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and/or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the US District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints in those actions assert claims against HSBC and other US dollar Libor panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act (‘CEA’), and state law. In March 2013, the US District Court Judge overseeing the consolidated proceeding that encompasses a number of pending actions related to US dollar Libor issued an opinion and order in the six oldest actions dismissing the plaintiffs’ federal and state antitrust claims, racketeering claims, and unjust enrichment claims in their entirety, but allowing certain of their CEA claims that were not barred by the applicable statute of limitations to proceed. Some of those plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal opinion and order to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Court of Appeals has dismissed those appeals on the grounds that they are premature and plaintiffs’ subsequent motion for reconsideration was denied. Other plaintiffs have filed amended complaints in the District Court to assert additional allegations, and the defendants have filed motions to dismiss the amended complaints. The District Court held oral argument on the motions to dismiss in February 2014, and it has stayed proceedings with respect to all other actions in the consolidated proceeding pending its decision on the motions to dismiss. Separately, HSBC and other panel banks have also been named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the US on behalf of persons and entities who transacted in euroyen futures and options contracts related to the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate (‘Tibor’). The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to euroyen Tibor, although HSBC is not a member of the Japanese Bankers Association’s euroyen Tibor panel, as well as Japanese yen Libor, in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA, and state law. In April 2013, the plaintiff filed 560 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) a second amended complaint which the defendants moved to dismiss in June 2013. Oral argument on the motion to dismiss is scheduled for March 2014. In November 2013, HSBC and other panel banks were also named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the US on behalf of persons who transacted in futures contracts and other financial instruments related to Euribor. The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to Euribor in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA, and state law. HSBC has not yet responded to the complaint and an amended complaint is expected by the end of March 2014. HSBC expects to file a motion to dismiss thereafter. In late 2013 and early 2014, HSBC and a number of other banks were named as defendants in various putative class actions filed in the US on behalf of persons who executed foreign currency trades that settled on the basis of foreign exchange rates published by WM/Reuters or that otherwise occurred during the time periods when the WM/Reuters rates were being set. The complaints allege, amongst other things, that the defendants conspired to manipulate the WM/Reuters foreign exchange rates in violation of US antitrust laws. In February 2014, the US District Court Judge appointed interim lead class counsel and ordered the plaintiffs to file a consolidated amended complaint. HSBC has not yet responded, but intends to do so at the appropriate time set by the court. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact on. Credit default swap regulatory investigation and litigation In July 2013, HSBC received a Statement of Objections from the European Commission relating to its ongoing investigation of alleged anti-competitive activity by a number of market participants in the credit derivatives market between 2006 and 2009. The Statement of Objections sets out the European Commission’s preliminary views and does not prejudge the final outcome of its investigation. HSBC has submitted a response to the European Commission. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the European Commission’s investigation, including the timing or impact on HSBC. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have been named as defendants, among others, in numerous putative class actions filed in federal courts located in New York and Chicago. These class actions allege that the defendants, which include ISDA, Markit and several financial institutions, conspired to restrain trade in violation of the federal anti-trust laws by, among other things, restricting access to credit default swap pricing exchanges and blocking new entrants into the exchange market, with the purpose and effect of artificially inflating the bid/ask spread paid to buy and sell credit default swaps in the US. The plaintiffs in these suits purport to represent a class of all persons who purchased credit default swaps from or sold credit default swaps to defendants primarily in the US. On 16 October 2013, the Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation ordered that all cases be consolidated in the Southern District of New York as In re Credit Default Swaps Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 2476. On 5 December 2013, the District Court held its Initial Pretrial Conference, at which time it selected Lead Interim Class Counsel and set a schedule for the filing of an amended, consolidated complaint and motions to dismiss that complaint. The amended, consolidated complaint was filed on 31 January 2014 and names HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank, but not HSBC Holdings, as defendants, among others. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact on HSBC. Economic plans: HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. Economic plans were introduced in the mid 1980’s and early 1990’s by the government of Brazil to reduce escalating inflation. The implementation of certain of these plans adversely impacted savings account holders, thousands of which consequently commenced legal proceedings against financial institutions in Brazil, including HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. (‘HSBC Brazil’), alleging, inter alia, that savings account balances were adjusted by a different price index than that contractually agreed, which caused them a loss of income. Certain of these cases have reached the Brazilian Supreme Court (‘Supreme Court’). The proceedings in the Supreme Court are currently due to commence in February 2014. The Supreme Court has suspended all cases pending before lower courts until it delivers a final judgement on the constitutionality of the changes resulting from the economic plans. It is anticipated that the outcome of the Supreme Court’s final judgement will set a precedent for all cases pending before the lower courts. Separately, the Brazilian Superior Civil Court (‘Superior Civil Court’) is considering matters relating to, among other things, contractual and punitive interest rates to be applied to calculate any loss of income. There is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the proceedings in the Supreme Court and Superior Civil Court will be resolved and the timing of such resolution including the amount of losses HSBC Brazil may be 561 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) liable to pay in the event of an unfavourable judgement. Such losses may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an amount up to US$600m, although the upper end of this range is considered unlikely. 44 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. Compensation of Key Management Personnel HSBC 2013 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Short-term employee benefits 38 37 34 Post-employment benefits 2 1 2 Other long-term employee benefits 10 10 7 Share-based payments 35 43 53 85 91 96 Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties Particulars of advances (loans and quasi-loans), credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2013 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown below: At 31 December 2013 US$m 2012 US$m Advances and credits 7 7 Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below. The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year. 2013 2012 Balance at 31 December US$m Highest amounts outstanding during year US$m Balance at 31 December US$m Highest amounts outstanding during year US$m Key Management Personnel1 Advances and credits 146 171 153 242 Guarantees – 8 8 12 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules. The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features. 562 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel At 31 December 2013 (000s) 2012 (000s) Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 225 358 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 14,704 14,713 Number of HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 held beneficially and non-beneficially – 300 Number of HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 held beneficially and non-beneficially 5 5 14,934 15,376 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 21. Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were as follows: 2013 2012 Highest balance during the year1 US$m Balance at 31 December1 US$m Highest balance during the year1 US$m Balance at 31 December1 US$m Amounts due from joint ventures: – subordinated 1 – 5 1 – unsubordinated 300 300 391 210 Amounts due from associates: – unsubordinated 4,884 4,084 3,554 2,736 5,185 4,384 3,950 2,947 Amounts due to joint ventures 7 7 135 1 Amounts due to associates 1,178 290 854 264 1,185 297 989 265 Commitments 70 17 326 45 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2013, US$5.2bn (2012: US$5bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies. Fees of US$23m (2012: US$20m) were earned by HSBC companies for these management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans. HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of US$620m (2012: US$285m) with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$1m (2012: US$2m). The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities. At 31 December 2013, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$38bn (2012: US$31bn), the swaps had a positive fair value of US$2.8bn (2012: positive fair value of US$5.2bn) to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$3.8bn (2012: US$7.1bn) to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC earned US$33m of interest (2012: US$31m). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. Previously there were special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme. Those provisions stipulated that the scheme never posted collateral to HSBC, although HSBC posted collateral to the scheme. From December 2013, the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are now on substantially the same terms as for comparable transactions with third party counterparties, including the two-way posting of collateral. 563 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2013, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.8bn (2012: US$1.8bn) and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$399m to the scheme (2012: US$328m). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings’ principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 24. Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries were as follows: 2013 2012 Highest balance during the year1 US$m Balance at 31 December1 US$m Highest balance during the year1 US$m Balance at 31 December1 US$m Assets Cash at bank 420 407 429 353 Derivatives 3,768 2,789 4,122 3,768 Loans and advances 53,344 53,344 41,675 41,675 Financial investments 1,220 1,210 1,208 1,208 Investments in subsidiaries 92,695 92,695 92,234 92,234 Total related party assets 151,447 150,445 139,668 139,238 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 12,856 11,685 12,856 12,856 Derivatives 1,154 704 1,536 760 Subordinated liabilities: – at amortised cost 1,716 1,716 2,493 1,696 – designated at fair value 4,350 3,161 4,271 4,260 Total related party liabilities 20,076 17,266 21,156 19,572 Guarantees 52,836 52,836 49,560 49,402 Commitments 1,245 1,245 1,811 1,200 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and were on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company. HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 7 to the accounts. 45 Events after the balance sheet date A fourth interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.19 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately US$3,578m) was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2013. These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2014 and authorised for issue. 46 Non-statutory accounts The information set out in these accounts does not constitute the company’s statutory accounts for the years ended 31 December 2013 or 2012. Those accounts have been reported on by the company’s auditors: their reports were unqualified and did not contain a statement under section 498 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006. The accounts for 2012 have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies and those for 2013 will be delivered in due course. 564 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Fourth interim dividend for 2013 565 Interim dividends for 2014 565 Shareholder profile 566 2013 Annual General Meeting 566 Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 567 Shareholder enquiries and communications 567 Stock symbols 568 Investor relations 569 Where more information about HSBC is available 569 Simplified structure chart 570 Taxation of shares and dividends 571 Information about the enforceability of judgements made in the US 573a Exchange controls and other limitations affecting equity security holders 573a Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings 573a American Depositary Shares 573a Nature of trading market 573b Memorandum and Articles of Association 573c History and development of HSBC 573d Differences in HSBC Holdings / New York Stock Exchange corporate governance practices 573e 2013 HSBC 20F reconciliation table 573g Glossary of accounting terms and US equivalents 574 Abbreviations 575 Glossary and Index 579 Fourth interim dividend for 2013 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.19 per ordinary share. Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 25 March 2014. The timetable for the dividend is: Announcement 24 February 2014 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 12 March 2014 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 12 March 2014 Record date in Hong Kong 13 March 2014 Record date in London, New York, Paris and Bermuda1 14 March 2014 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2013 and/or Strategic Report 2013, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend documentation 25 March 2014 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends 15 April 2014 Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 22 April 2014 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST 30 April 2014 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date. Interim dividends for 2014 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares. Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend. It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2014 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share. Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Board’s determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend. 565 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Shareholder profile At 31 December 2013 the share register recorded the following details: Ordinary shares held Number of shareholders Total shares held 1-100 36,671 1,085,236 101-400 29,459 7,226,259 401-500 7,506 3,397,827 501-1,000 31,360 22,984,271 1,001-5,000 70,724 166,667,452 5,001-10,000 18,439 130,183,641 10,001-20,000 10,902 152,062,623 20,001-50,000 6,611 202,833,471 50,001-200,000 3,256 300,217,089 200,001-500,000 706 221,550,972 500,001 and above 1,063 17,621,798,198 Total 216,697 18,830,007,039 2013 Annual General Meeting All resolutions considered at the 2013 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 24 May 2013 at The Barbican Centre, London EC2 were passed on a poll as follows: Votes Resolution For1 % Against % Total %2 Withheld3 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2012 9,582,599,011 98.62 134,219,149 1.38 9,716,818,160 52.17 15,724,907 2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2012 8,304,766,707 89.00 1,026,750,082 11.00 9,331,516,789 50.10 399,765,100 3 To elect or re-elect the following as Directors: (a) S A Catz 9,705,465,619 99.87 12,747,527 0.13 9,718,213,146 52.18 15,960,825 (b) L M L Cha 9,572,286,348 99.48 49,577,260 0.52 9,621,863,608 51.66 111,431,942 (c) M K T Cheung 9,685,695,545 99.66 32,573,965 0.34 9,718,269,510 52.18 15,908,254 (d) J Comey 9,705,606,332 99.87 12,578,071 0.13 9,718,184,403 52.18 15,972,535 (e) J D Coombe 9,480,244,194 97.55 237,837,940 2.45 9,718,082,134 52.17 15,955,253 (f) J Faber 9,696,534,776 99.78 21,625,814 0.22 9,718,160,590 52.17 15,973,448 (g) R A Fairhead 9,663,011,443 99.46 52,731,976 0.54 9,715,743,419 52.16 18,424,393 (h) R Fassbind 9,704,174,178 99.86 13,994,077 0.14 9,718,168,255 52.17 15,963,055 (i) D J Flint 9,501,654,886 97.92 201,964,145 2.08 9,703,619,031 52.10 30,545,606 (j) S T Gulliver 9,688,105,732 99.70 29,297,560 0.30 9,717,403,292 52.17 16,759,939 (k) J W J Hughes-Hallett 9,671,525,325 99.55 43,259,963 0.45 9,714,785,288 52.16 19,360,574 (l) W S H Laidlaw 9,631,950,561 99.64 34,439,677 0.36 9,666,390,238 51.90 67,764,178 (m) J P Lipsky 9,695,295,317 99.76 22,865,509 0.24 9,718,160,826 52.17 15,882,750 (n) J R Lomax 9,675,152,284 99.56 43,120,545 0.44 9,718,272,829 52.18 15,880,430 (o) I J Mackay 9,681,451,307 99.62 36,645,895 0.38 9,718,097,202 52.17 15,979,019 (p) Sir Simon Robertson 9,561,469,393 99.37 60,350,649 0.63 9,621,820,042 51.66 111,440,980 4 To reappoint the Auditor at remuneration to be determined by the Group Audit Committee 9,441,326,833 97.86 206,449,570 2.14 9,647,776,403 51.80 86,358,827 5 To authorise the Directors to allot shares 9,456,469,654 97.32 260,668,567 2.68 9,717,138,221 52.17 17,007,896 6 To disapply pre-emption rights (Special Resolution) 9,524,207,114 98.03 191,306,185 1.97 9,715,513,299 52.16 18,654,074 7 To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares 9,538,869,292 99.15 81,838,761 0.85 9,620,708,053 51.65 111,077,756 8 To approve general meetings (other than annual general meetings) being called on 14 clear days’ notice (Special Resolution) 8,610,798,049 88.61 1,106,498,079 11.39 9,717,296,128 52.17 16,736,806 1 Includes discretionary votes. 2 Percentage of Issued Share Capital voted. 3 A ‘Vote Withheld’ is not a ‘vote’ in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ the resolution. 566 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Interim Management Statements and Interim Results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 7 May 2014 and 3 November 2014. The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2014 are expected to be issued on 4 August 2014. Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically. Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 Email via website: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre 183 Queen’s Road East Hong Kong Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk Investors Relations Team HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 6 Front Street Hamilton HM 11 Bermuda Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.co.uk Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/hk Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts PO Box 43006 Providence, RI 02940-3006 USA Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elysées 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-do@hsbc.fr Website: www.hsbc.fr If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding (including any administration thereof) must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error. 567 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2013 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: Global Communications HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Communications (Asia) The Hongkong and Shanghai BankingCorporation Limited 1 Queen’s Road Central Hong Kong Global Publishing Services HSBC – North America 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Mettawa, Illinois 60045 USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBC’s website. To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.hsbc.com/ecomms. If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email. If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy or, if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email (quoting your shareholder reference number) to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge. Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2013 is available upon request after 25 March 2014 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre 183 Queen’s Road East Hong Kong Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future. Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.BH New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HSBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to: Manager Investor Relations HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom SVP Investor Relations HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Mettawa, Illinois 60045 USA Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 1 Queen’s Road Central Hong Kong Telephone: 44 020 7991 8041 1 224 880 8008 852 2822 4908 Facsimile: 44 0845 587 0225 1 847 383 3331 852 3418 4469 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com investor.relations.usa@us.hsbc.com investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk 568 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2013, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com. Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov. Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the Commission at (202) 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000). HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013, effective 1 January 2014. The legislation will require HSBC Holdings to publish additional information, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, by 1 July 2014. This information will be available at the time on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com. 569 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) 570 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Taxation of shares and dividends Taxation – UK residents The following is a summary, under current law, of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares. The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, the summary deals principally with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities. Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws. Taxation of dividends Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. However, dividends are paid with an associated tax credit which is available for set-off by certain shareholders against any liability they may have to UK income tax. Currently, the associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i.e. one-ninth of the cash dividend. For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings. Individual shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper rate (currently 32.5%) and the dividend additional rate (currently 37.5%), respectively. The tax credit is available for set-off against the dividend upper rate and the dividend additional rate liability. Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit repayment. Although non-UK resident shareholders are generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some such shareholders may be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation agreement between their country of residence and the UK. However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, repayable. Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2012 fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2013 was set out in the Secretary’s letters to shareholders of 3 April, 6 June, 5 September and 5 November 2013. In no case was the difference between the cash dividend foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value. Accordingly, the amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings US$0.50 ordinary shares (the ‘shares’) for UK capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend foregone. Taxation of capital gains The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other companies. For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues. Any capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowance. If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers. Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee. An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee. 571 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax is calculated and payment made automatically. Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration. Following the case HSBC pursued before the European Court of Justice (Case C-569/07 HSBC Holdings plc and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM Revenue & Customs) and a subsequent case in relation to depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is prohibited. Taxation – US residents The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) by a holder that is a resident of the US for US federal income tax purposes (a ‘US holder’) and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes. The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change. Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws. Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and Accounts is for informational purposes only; it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties. Taxation of dividends Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such fair market value. Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a ‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not being classified for US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment company), certain dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at preferential rates. Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign investment company. Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified dividends. Taxation of capital gains Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US tax at preferential rates. Inheritance tax Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes of the United States-United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK will not, provided 572 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax. Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary) under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable. The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%. The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer. No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. US backup withholding tax and information reporting Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding. Holders that are not US persons generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US persons in order to avoid the application of such information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries. 573 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Information about the enforceability of judgements made in the US HSBC Holdings is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales. Most of the Directors and executive officers live outside the US. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or HSBC Holdings in the US or to enforce judgements obtained in US courts against them or HSBC Holdings based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the US. There is doubt as to whether English courts would enforce: • civil liabilities under US securities laws in original actions; or • judgements of US courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the US or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the UK. The enforceability of any judgement in the UK will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. Exchange controls and other limitations affecting equity security holders Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of capital or remittance of distributable profits by way of dividends and other payments to holders of HSBC Holdings’ equity securities who are not residents of the UK. There are also no restrictions under the laws of the UK or the terms of the Memorandum and Articles of Association concerning the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings’ equity securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so. Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since it became the HSBC Group holding company by a scheme of arrangement in 1991. The dividends declared, per ordinary share, in respect of each of the last five years were: Firstinterim Secondinterim Thirdinterim Fourth interim1 Total2 2013 US$ 0.100 0.100 0.100 0.190 0.490 £ 0.066 0.064 0.062 0.114 0.306 HK$ 0.776 0.775 0.775 1.473 3.799 2012 US$ 0.090 0.090 0.090 0.180 0.450 £ 0.058 0.056 0.056 0.111 0.281 HK$ 0.698 0.698 0.698 1.395 3.489 2011 US$ 0.090 0.090 0.090 0.140 0.410 £ 0.056 0.058 0.058 0.090 0.262 HK$ 0.701 0.702 0.699 1.088 3.190 2010 US$ 0.080 0.080 0.080 0.120 0.360 £ 0.053 0.051 0.051 0.077 0.232 HK$ 0.622 0.621 0.622 0.933 2.798 2009 US$ 0.080 0.080 0.080 0.100 0.340 £ 0.048 0.050 0.048 0.062 0.208 HK$ 0.620 0.620 0.620 0.775 2.635 1 The fourth interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.19 per share has been translated into pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars at the closing rate on 31 December 2013. The dividend will be paid on 30 April 2014. 2 The above dividends declared are accounted for as disclosed in Note 10 on the Financial Statements. American Depositary Shares A holder of HSBC Holdings’ American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) may have to pay, either directly or indirectly (via the intermediary through whom their ADSs are held) fees to the Bank of New York Mellon as depositary. Fees may be paid or recovered in several ways: by deduction from amounts distributed; by selling a portion of distributable property; by deduction from dividend distributions; by directly invoicing the holder; or by charging the intermediaries who act for them. The fees for which the holders of the HSBC ADSs will be responsible include: 573a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) For: HSBC ADS holders must pay: Each issuance of HSBC ADSs, including as a result of a distribution of shares (including through a stock dividend, stock split or distribution of rights or other property) US$5.00 (or less) per 100 HSBC ADSs or portion thereof Each cancellation of HSBC ADSs, including if the deposit agreement terminates US$5.00 (or less) per 100 HSBC ADSs or portion thereof Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to/from the holder’s name to/from the name of The Bank of New York Mellon or its agent when the holder deposits or withdraws shares Registration or transfer fees (of which there currently are none) Conversion of non-US currency to US dollars Charges and expenses incurred by The Bank of New York Mellon with respect to the conversion Each cash distribution to HSBC ADS holders US$0.02 or less per ADS Transfers of HSBC ordinary shares to the depositary in exchange for HSBC ADSs Any applicable taxes and/or other governmental charges Distribution of securities by the Depository to HSBC ADS holders A fee equivalent to the fee that would be payable if securities distributed to you had been shares and those shares had been deposited for issuance of ADSs Any other charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing shares or other securities deposited As applicable The depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services are paid. The depositary has agreed to reimburse us for expenses we incur, and to pay certain out-of-pocket expenses and waive certain fees, in connection with the administration, servicing and maintenance of our ADS programme. There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the depositary will reimburse us. The amount of reimbursement available is not tied to the amount of fees the depositary collects from holders of ADSs. During the year ended 31 December 2013, the depositary reimbursed, paid and/or waived fees and expenses totalling US$650,505.65 in connection with the administration, servicing and maintenance of the programme, as detailed below: Category of expense/fees 2013 US$ Fees relating to stock exchange listing 216,394.34 Fulfilment costs including shareholder meeting costs (printing and distribution of materials and vote tabulation) and beneficial holder searches 232,872.51 Fees and expenses paid and/or waived including: account servicing fees, postage and envelopes for mailing annual and interim financial reports, dividend warrants, electronic filing of US Federal tax information, mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and telephone calls 201,238.80 Total 650,505.65 Nature of trading market HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are listed or admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (‘HKSE’), Euronext Paris, the Bermuda Stock Exchange, and the New York Stock Exchange (‘NYSE’) in the form of ADSs. HSBC Holdings maintains its principal share register in England and overseas branch share registers in Hong Kong and Bermuda (collectively, the ‘share register’). As at 31 December 2013, there were a total of 216,702 holders of record of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the share register. As at 31 December 2013, a total of 20,203,754 of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were registered in the HSBC Holdings’ share register in the name of 14,119 holders of record with addresses in the US. These shares represented 0.11% of the total HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue. As at 31 December 2013, there were 7,576 holders of record of ADSs holding approximately 164.5m ADSs, representing approximately 822.5m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 7,412 of these holders had addresses in the US, holding approximately 164.3m ADSs, representing 821.5m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. As at 31 December 2013, approximately 3.9% of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were represented by ADSs held by holders of record with addresses in the US. The following table shows, for the years, calendar quarters and months indicated, the highest and lowest prices for the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and ADSs. These are based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange, HKSE, Euronext Paris, NYSE and the 573b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Bermuda Stock Exchange, as adjusted for the 5-for-12 rights issue completed in April 2009. Past share price performance should not be regarded as a guide to future performance. High and low mid-market closing prices London Hong Kong New York Paris Bermuda US$0.50 shares US$0.50 shares ADSs1 US$0.50 shares US$0.50 shares High Low High Low High Low High Low High Low pence pence HK$ HK$ US$ US$ euro euro US$ US$ 2013 770 647 90.4 79.3 58.6 50.7 9.1 7.7 11.4 10.5 2012 655 491 82.0 59.5 53.1 38.3 8.0 5.8 10.5 7.6 2011 731 464 91.8 56.1 59.0 35.8 8.7 5.4 11.8 7.0 2010 740 596 92.4 69.6 59.3 44.4 8.3 7.2 11.6 8.8 2009 761 304 98.0 30.6 64.0 22.0 8.6 3.3 12.5 4.7 2013 4th Quarter 703 647 87.1 81.8 56.5 53.0 8.4 7.7 11.3 10.5 3rd Quarter 755 670 89.6 79.8 58.0 52.2 8.7 7.9 11.3 10.6 2nd Quarter 770 656 90.4 79.3 58.6 50.7 9.1 7.7 11.4 10.5 1st Quarter 740 647 88.3 81.3 57.1 52.8 8.6 7.9 11.4 10.5 2012 4th Quarter 655 581 82.0 72.6 53.1 47.0 8.0 7.3 10.5 9.4 3rd Quarter 588 511 74.1 62.1 47.7 39.7 7.4 6.5 9.4 8.3 2nd Quarter 573 503 71.6 60.2 46.0 38.7 7.1 6.2 9.2 8.1 1st Quarter 582 491 71.7 59.5 45.9 38.3 7.0 5.8 9.3 7.6 2014 January 681 626 86.1 81.0 56.0 51.5 8.2 7.6 11.0 10.8 2013 December 677 647 87.1 81.8 55.6 53.0 8.2 7.7 10.9 10.5 November 703 682 87.0 84.8 56.5 55.2 8.4 8.1 11.2 10.9 October 690 665 86.0 83.3 56.0 53.5 8.2 7.9 11.3 10.6 September 708 669 88.0 83.1 56.8 52.4 8.4 8.0 11.3 10.6 August 755 676 89.6 82.0 58.0 52.4 8.7 7.9 11.2 10.7 July 748 681 88.1 79.8 56.8 52.2 8.6 8.0 11.2 11.0 1 In New York each ADS represents five underlying ordinary shares. Memorandum and Articles of Association The disclosure under the caption ‘Memorandum and Articles of Association’ contained on Form 20-F for the years ended 31 December 2000 and 2001 is incorporated by reference herein, together with the disclosure below. Directors’ interests Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and provided that the Articles are complied with, a Director, notwithstanding his office: • may enter into or otherwise be interested in any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal with HSBC Holdings or in which HSBC Holdings is otherwise interested; • may hold any other office or place of profit under HSBC Holdings (except that of auditor or auditor of a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings) in conjunction with the office of Director and may act by himself or through his firm in a professional capacity for HSBC Holdings, and in any such case on such terms as to remuneration and otherwise as the Board may arrange; • may be a director or other officer, or employed by, or a party to any transaction or arrangement with or otherwise interested in, any company promoted by HSBC Holdings or in which HSBC Holdings is otherwise interested or as regards which HSBC Holdings has any powers of appointment; and • shall not be liable to account to HSBC Holdings for any profit, remuneration or other benefit realised by any such office, employment, contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal or from any interest in any body corporate and no such contract, arrangement, transaction, proposal or interest shall be avoided on the grounds of any such interest or benefit nor shall the receipt of any such profit, remuneration or any other benefit constitute a breach of his or her duty under the Companies Act 2006 not to accept benefits from third parties. 573c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Since 1 October 2008, the Board may authorise any matter proposed to it which would, if not so authorised, involve a breach by a Director of his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest under the Companies Act 2006, including, without limitation, any matter which relates to a situation in which a Director has, or can have, an interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interest of HSBC Holdings (including the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether or not HSBC Holdings could take advantage of it, but excluding any situation which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest). Any such authorisation will be effective only if: • any requirement as to quorum at the meeting at which the matter is considered is met without counting the Director in question or any other interested Director; and • the matter was agreed to without their voting or would have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted. The Board may (whether at the time of the giving of the authorisation or subsequently) make any such authorisation subject to any limits or conditions it expressly imposes but such authorisation is otherwise given to the fullest extent permitted. The Board may vary or terminate any such authorisation at any time. A Director shall be under no duty to HSBC Holdings with respect to any information which he obtains or has obtained otherwise than as a Director of HSBC Holdings and in respect of which he has a duty of confidentiality to another person. Retirement There is no mandatory retirement age for Directors of HSBC Holdings. History and development of HSBC 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, is established in both Hong Kong and Shanghai. 1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East, now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are purchased. 1965 We acquire a 51% interest (subsequently increased to 62.14%) in Hang Seng Bank Limited. Hang Seng Bank is the fourth-largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market capitalisation. 1980 We acquire a 51% interest in Marine Midland Banks, Inc., now HSBC USA, Inc, (with the remaining interest acquired in 1987). 1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporates its then existing Canadian operations. HSBC Bank Canada subsequently makes numerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada. 1987 We purchase a 14.9% interest in Midland Bank plc, now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UK’s principal clearing banks. 1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the parent company of the HSBC Group. 1992 We purchase the remaining interest in Midland Bank plc. 1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, our Head Office is transferred from Hong Kong to London in January. 1997 We assume selected assets, liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil S.A., now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, and in Argentina complete the acquisition of Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. 1999 We acquire Republic New York Corporation, subsequently merged with HSBC USA, Inc., and Safra Republic Holdings S.A. 2000 We complete our acquisition of 99.99% of the issued share capital of Crédit Commercial de France S.A., now HSBC France. 2002 We acquire 99.59% of Grupo Financiero Bital, S.A. de C.V., the holding company of what is now HSBC Mexico. 2003 We acquire Household International, Inc., now HSBC Finance Corporation. 2003 We acquire Banco Lloyds TSB S.A.–Banco Múltiplo in Brazil and the country’s leading consumer finance company, Losango Promotora de Vendas Limitada. 2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC Bank & Trust (Delaware) N.A. to form HSBC Bank USA, N.A. 2004 We complete the acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda Limited. 2004 We acquire Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited, which trades as Marks and Spencer Money (‘M&S Money’) in the UK. 2004 We acquire 19.9% of Bank of Communications, and Hang Seng Bank acquires 15.98% of Industrial Bank. 573d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) 2005 We increase our holding in Ping An to 19.9%, having made our initial investment in 2002. Ping An is the second-largest life insurer and the third-largest property and casualty insurer in mainland China. 2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of Metris Companies Inc., making HSBC the fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the USA. 2006 We acquire Grupo Banistmo S.A. (‘Banistmo’), the leading banking group in Central America, through a tender offer to acquire 99.98% of the outstanding shares of Banistmo. 2007 Our three associates in mainland China, Industrial Bank, Ping An and Bank of Communications, issue new shares. We do not subscribe and, as a result, our interests in the associates’ equity decrease. 2008 We acquire the assets, liabilities and operations of The Chinese Bank in Taiwan. 2008 We complete the sale of our seven French regional banks. 2009 We complete the acquisition of 88.89% of PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja Tbk in Indonesia. 2012 In May, we complete the sale of our US Card and Retail Services business, together with certain real estate and other assets and liabilities. 2012 In May, we complete the sale of 138 retail branches in upstate New York. The disposal of a further 57 branches is completed in August. 2012 In December, we complete the sale we announced in January of our businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras to the Columbian banking group, Banco Davivienda, for US$801m. 2012 In December, we announce the disposal of our shares in Ping An to Charoen Pokphand Group Company for approximately US$9,385m in cash. 2012 In December, we announce an agreement to sell our 18% shareholding in Bao Viet Holdings to Sumitomo Life Insurance Company for US$340m in cash. 2013 In November, we sell HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. to Bancolombia S.A. for US$2.1bn in cash. Differences in HSBC Holdings/New York Stock Exchange corporate governance practices Under the NYSE’s corporate governance rules for listed companies and the applicable rules of the SEC, as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, HSBC Holdings must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies subject to NYSE listing standards. HSBC Holdings believes the following to be the significant differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies. US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines. The Listing Rules of the FCA require each listed company incorporated in the UK to include in its Annual Report and Accounts a statement of how it has applied the principles of The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the code provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the accounting period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts. A company that has not complied with the code provisions, or complied with only some of the code provisions or (in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature) complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must specify the code provisions with which it has not complied, and (where relevant) for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance. As stated above, HSBC Holdings complied throughout 2013 with the applicable code provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code. The UK Corporate Governance Code does not require HSBC Holdings to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which it complies. Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating/corporate governance committee composed entirely of directors determined to be independent in accordance with the NYSE’s corporate governance rules. All of the members of the Nomination Committee during 2013 were independent non-executive Directors, as determined in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference of our Nomination Committee, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, require a majority of members to be independent. In addition to identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, a nominating/ corporate governance committee must develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles. The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference do not require it to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for HSBC Holdings. As stated above, HSBC Holdings is subject to the corporate governance principles of The UK Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Directors is responsible under its terms of reference for the development and review of Group policies and practices on corporate governance. Under the NYSE standards, companies are required to have a compensation committee composed entirely of directors determined to be independent in accordance with the NYSE’s corporate governance rules. All of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee during 2013 were independent non-executive Directors, as determined in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference of our 573e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Group Remuneration Committee, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, require at least three members to be independent. A compensation committee must review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to chief executive officer compensation and evaluate a chief executive officer’s performance in light of these goals and objectives. The Group Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference require it to review and approve performance-based remuneration of the executive Directors by reference to corporate goals and objectives which are set by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year. During 2013, the non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman met once without the other executive Directors. The non-executive Directors also met four times without the Group Chairman, including to appraise the Group Chairman’s performance. HSBC Holdings’ practice, in this regard, complies with The UK Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with the requirements of The UK Corporate Governance Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its Annual Report and Accounts how the Board, its committees and the Directors are evaluated (on pages 344 to 345) and provides extensive information regarding Directors’ compensation in the Directors’ Remuneration Report (on pages 378 to 407). The terms of reference of HSBC Holdings’ Group Audit, Group Nomination, Group Remuneration and Group Risk Committees are available at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/boardcommittees. NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers. In 2009, the Board endorsed three HSBC Values statements underpinned by the continued use of our Business Principles, in replacement of the Group Business Principles and Values. In addition to the HSBC Values statements and Business Principles (and previously the Group Business Principles and Values), which apply to the employees of all our companies, pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, and to the Group Finance Director and Group Chief Accounting Officer. HSBC Holdings’ Code of Ethics is available on www.hsbc.com/codeofethics or from the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. If the Board amends or waives the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the amendment or waiver will appear at the same website address. During 2013, HSBC Holdings made no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no waivers from its provisions. The references to the standards to be followed by all employees reflect the Board’s endorsement of HSBC Values statements underpinned by the continued use of our Business Principles. The HSBC Values statements and Business Principles are available on www.hsbc.com/groupvalues. Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors. Currently, more than three-quarters of HSBC Holdings’ Directors are independent. Under The UK Corporate Governance Code the HSBC Holdings Board determines whether a Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement. Under the NYSE rules a director cannot qualify as independent unless the board affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with the listed company; in addition the NYSE rules prescribe a list of circumstances in which a director cannot be independent. The UK Corporate Governance Code requires a company’s board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US company listed on the NYSE must annually certify that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance standards. In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings’ Group Chief Executive is not required to provide the NYSE with this annual compliance certification. However, in accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, the Group Chief Executive is required promptly to notify the NYSE in writing after any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings is required to submit annual and interim written affirmations of compliance with applicable NYSE corporate governance standards, similar to the affirmations required of NYSE-listed US companies. 573f Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Form 20-F Item Number and Caption Location Page PART I 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not required for Annual Report — 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not required for Annual Report — 3. Key Information A. Selected Financial Data Consolidated income statement, Consolidated balance sheet, Shareholder information 51, 65, 565 B. Capitalisation and Indebtedness Not required for Annual Report — C. Reasons for the Offer and use of Proceeds Not required for Annual Report — D. Risk Factors Report of the Directors: Financial Review 134a-134n 