ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could prevent us from achieving our business objectives and that could hurt our future financial performance and the price performance of our common stock. Such risks and uncertainties also could cause our future financial condition and future financial performance to differ significantly from our current expectations, which are described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Those risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, include the following: 30 A decline in the popularity of high-value collectibles and a resulting decrease in submissions for our services could adversely impact our business. The volume of collectibles submitted to us for authentication and grading is affected by the demand for and market value of those collectibles. As the demand for and value of collectibles increase, authentication and grading submissions, as well as requests by submitters for higher price, faster turn-around times, also increase. However, that also means that a decline in popularity and, therefore in the value, of the collectibles that we authenticate and grade would cause decreases in authentication and grading submissions and in the requests we receive for faster turn-around times and, therefore, also in our revenues and profitability. We have found, over the years, that the popularity of collectibles can vary due to a number of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including perceived scarcity of collectibles, general consumer confidence and trends and their impact on disposable income, precious metals prices, interest rates and other general economic conditions. Declines in general economic conditions could result in decreased demand for our services, which could adversely affect our operating results. The availability of discretionary or disposable income is an important factor in the willingness and ability of collectors and consumers to purchase, and the prices that they are willing to pay for, high-value collectibles, diamonds and colored gemstones. Declines in purchases and sales, and in the value, of collectibles, diamonds or colored gemstones usually result in declines in the use of authentication and grading services, as such services are most often used by sellers and purchasers of collectibles in conjunction with and to facilitate sale and purchase transactions. As a result, economic uncertainties, downturns and recessions can and do adversely affect our operating results by (i) reducing the frequency with which collectibles dealers and collectors submit their coins, sportscards and other collectibles for authentication and grading; (ii) reducing purchases of diamonds and colored gemstones by consumers, which would lead to a reduction in the number of diamonds and colored gemstones submitted to us for grading; (iii) causing collectibles dealers and collectors to request longer authentication and grading turn-around times with respect to the collectibles they submit to us for grading, which would reduce our revenues, gross profit margin and operating results, and (iv) reducing the ability of customers to pay outstanding accounts receivable. Temporary popularity of some collectibles may result in short-term increases, followed by decreases, in the volume of submissions for our services, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate. Temporary consumer popularity or “fads” among collectors may lead to short-term or temporary increases, followed by decreases, in the volume of collectibles that we authenticate and grade. These trends may result in significant period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results and could result in declines in our net revenues and profitability, not only because of a resulting decline in the volume of authenticating and grading submissions, but also because such trends could lead to increased price competition, which could require us to reduce our authentication and grading fees in order to maintain market share. For example, the number of coins submitted to us for grading declined during 2008 and 2007 relative to 2006, due in part to a decline in the popularity of certain coin grading programs. Our revenues and income depend significantly on revenues generated by our coin authentication and grading services. A decrease in the level of submissions for these services, which historically has been impacted by changes in economic conditions, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Coin authentication and grading, related services and product sales accounted for approximately 55%, 58% and 65% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe fluctuations in coin grading submissions can be due, at least in part, to (i) economic downturns which can result in a decline in consumer confidence and disposable income and, therefore, the willingness of dealers and collectors to buy collectible coins, and (ii) the performance of the stock markets, the level of interest rates and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar, which can lead investors to shift some of their investments between stocks and bonds and precious metals. The lack of diversity in our sources of revenues and our dependence on coin grading submissions for a majority of our net revenues make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions. These adverse changes include fluctuations in the value of precious metals or recessionary conditions that could result in declines in collectibles authentication and grading submissions generally or, more particularly, in collectible coin submissions that would, in turn, result in reductions in our total net revenues and operating results. 31 Our top 6 customers, account for approximately 10% of our total net revenues. During the year ended June 30, 2008, six of our coin customers accounted, in the aggregate, for approximately 10% of our total net revenues. As a result, the loss of any of those customers, or a lower level of grading submissions by any of those customers, could cause our net revenues to decline and, therefore, could harm our operating results. Our revenues from these customers are also impacted by the level of submissions and revenue earned from submissions at collectibles trade shows where we provide on-site grading and authentication services to show attendees who typically request same-day turn-around. The level of submissions at trade shows can vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing and number of the trade shows conducted in any particular period, or short-term decisions made by dealers during such trade shows. In addition, the level of our revenues can be impacted by short-term changes in the price of gold that may occur generally or around the time of the show, which can affect the volume of coin transactions from these customers at the trade shows and which, in turn, can affect the volume of submissions to us for on-site grading and same-day turn-around at shows. Our diamond, colored gemstone and currency authentication and grading businesses are in their start-up phases. There can be no assurance that these businesses will prove to be successful. We purchased our diamond and colored gemstone grading businesses in November 2005 and August 2006, respectively, and we started our currency authentication and grading business in March 2005. These businesses have yet to make a material contribution to our net revenues. To date, our diamond, colored gemstone and currency grading businesses have incurred significant operating losses and we do not have, as of yet, an assurance that these services will gain market acceptance or that these businesses will ever make a material contribution to our net revenues or achieve profitability. As a result, in accordance with applicable accounting rules, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we determined that there had been an impairment to these jewelry businesses, and we recorded a non-cash impairment loss of approximately $11,232,000 with respect to the goodwill, intangible assets and certain tangible assets of our diamond and colored gemstone grading businesses. See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS ─ Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates ─ Long-Lived Assets Other than Goodwill and Goodwill in Part II of this Report. Future acquisitions and the commencement of new businesses present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals of any acquisition or commencement of any new business. One component of our growth strategy is to acquire existing or to start new businesses that serve other markets for other collectibles or high-value assets. In fiscal 2006 we acquired four businesses, including a diamond grading business, and in fiscal 2007 we acquired two other businesses, a colored gemstone grading business and a trade show management company. The purchase of these new businesses, present a number of risks and uncertainties, including: § difficulties in integrating newly acquired or newly started businesses into existing operations, as a result of which we may incur increased operating costs that can adversely affect our operating results; § the risk that our current and planned facilities, computer systems and personnel and controls will not be adequate to support our expanded operations; § diversion of management time and capital resources from our existing businesses, which could adversely affect their performance and our operating results; § dependence on key management personnel of acquired or newly started businesses and the risk that we will be unable to integrate or retain such personnel; § the risk that new services we may introduce or begin offering, whether as a result of internal expansion or business acquisitions, will not gain acceptance; § competition from established or larger competitors in new markets, such as in our diamond grading business, which could adversely affect the financial success and performance of any of the businesses we may have acquired or started; and § the risk that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or of the commencement of any new business may not be realized, in which event we will not be able to achieve an acceptable return on our investment. 32 There are risks associated with new service offerings, with which we have little experience. We are continually exploring new services that we might introduce and offer to our existing authentication and grading customers as a means of increasing our net revenues and profitability. Those new services, however, may prove to be unprofitable and negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our performance is greatly dependent on the performance of our senior management and certain other key employees. As a result, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Some of our executive officers and key employees are experts in the collectibles markets and have industry-wide reputations for authentication and grading of collectibles. In particular, the loss of Michael R. Haynes, our Chief Executive Officer, or David G. Hall, our President, could have a negative effect on our reputation for expertise in the collectibles markets in which we operate and could lead to a reduction in authentication and grading submissions to us. We are dependent on our collectibles experts. In certain of our markets, there are a limited number of individuals who have the expertise to authenticate and grade collectibles, and competition for available collectibles experts is intense. Accordingly, our business and our growth initiatives are heavily dependent on our ability (i) to retain our existing collectibles experts, who have developed relatively unique skills and enjoy a reputation for being experts within the collectibles markets, and (ii) to implement personnel recruiting, succession and training programs that will enable us to add collectibles experts, as necessary, to grow our business and offset employee turnover that can occur from time to time. If we are not successful in retaining our existing collectibles experts or in hiring and training new collectibles experts, this could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, some of our experts could leave our Company to join a competitor or start a competing business. We could suffer losses on authentication and grading warranties. Certain of our grading service businesses offer customers service warranties. The warranties offered by our collectibles grading businesses provide that: § if any collectible we have authenticated and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases is later determined not to have been genuine, we would have to purchase the collectible at the price paid for it by its then owner; and § if any collectible that was graded by us and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases later receives a lower grade upon resubmission to us for grading, we would be obligated either to purchase the collectible at the price paid by its then owner or to pay the difference in its value at its original grade as compared to its value at the lower grade. GCAL, our diamond grading subsidiary, offers a grading warranty which provides that, if a diamond graded by us is submitted for re-grading within two years and, on re-grading is assigned a color or clarity grade that is more than one grade lower than the original color or clarity grade it received, GCAL will become obligated to purchase the diamond at the price paid by its then owner or, if GCAL so chooses, to pay the difference in its value at its original grade as compared to its value at the lower grade. We have no insurance coverage for claims made under these warranties and, therefore, we maintain reserves to satisfy such warranty claims based on historical experience. However, there is no assurance that these warranty reserves will prove to be adequate and, if they are not, our operating results could be harmed and, therefore, we will continue to monitor the adequacy of our warranty reserves on an on-going basis. During 2008, we unexpectedly received certain coin grading warranty claims that were significant when compared to our prior warranty claims experience. As a result, we recognized, in the second quarter of 2008, an additional expense of $822,000 to provide for those claims. In addition, effective January 1, 2008, we increased our warranty accrual rate to reflect this higher warranty claims experience. Those actions contributed to an increase in our costs of sales and, therefore, to the operating loss we incurred for fiscal year 2008. 33 Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. Although there are few major competitors in the collectibles authentication and grading markets in which we currently operate, competition in these markets is, nevertheless, intense. In addition, in the diamond market there are a number of grading services that are substantially larger, have been in business substantially longer and are better known than GCAL. Increased competition in our collectibles markets could adversely affect our pricing and profit margins and our ability to achieve further growth, and we cannot assure that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors in our collectibles markets. In our diamond business, as we implement its growth strategy, we are likely to encounter intense competition from larger and more established competitors that have significant market shares. Also, our entry into new collectibles or high-value asset markets could lead other potential competitors to enter those markets as well. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and could cause us to continue to incur losses in those markets and damage our financial condition. We depend on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe that our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual and other proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate to prevent imitation of our services or products or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may develop similar trade secrets or other intellectual property independently or assert rights in our intellectual and other proprietary rights that could lead them to seek to block sales of our services based on allegations that use of some of our marks or other intellectual property constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights. Our unregistered trademarks could conflict with trademarks of others. We have not conducted an exhaustive search of possible prior users of our unregistered trademarks, including Coin Universe, Collectors.com and PSE. Therefore, it is possible that our use of some of these trademarks may conflict with others. As a result, we could face litigation or lose the use of some of these trademarks, which could have an adverse effect on our name recognition and result in a decrease in revenues and an increase in expenses. The imposition of government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. With the exception of state laws applicable to autograph authentication, the collectible coin and other high-value collectibles markets are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation. However, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles and, therefore, also to a decline in the volume of coins, sportscards and other collectibles that are submitted to us for authentication and grading. Our reliance on a single source for principally all of our “tamper-evident,” clear plastic coin and sportscard holders exposes us to potential supply and quality problems. We place all of the coins, sportscards and currency notes, and sometimes also the stamps that we authenticate and grade, in tamper-evident, clear plastic holders. In order to take advantage of volume pricing discounts, we purchase substantially all of those holders, on a purchase order basis, from one principal supplier. Our reliance on a single supplier for a substantial portion of those plastic holders exposes us to the potential for delay in our ability to deliver timely authentication and grading services in the event that supplier were to terminate its services to us or to encounter financial or production problems. If, in such an event, we were unable to obtain replacement holders in a relatively short period of time, we could lose customer orders, or incur additional production costs. In addition, if the replacement holders were not of comparable quality to our existing supplier, we could expose ourselves to the potential for additional warranty claims in the event that tampering with our holders was not evident. These occurrences could cause a decline in our net revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks, and we are vulnerable to system failure due to a lack of redundant systems at another location. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems that we use in our authentication and grading operations and to maintain our websites against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events. In this regard, Southern California, where we are primarily located, is particularly vulnerable to earthquakes and fires that could result in damage to our computer systems. In addition, our diamond and colored gemstone operations are located in a New York City high-rise building that could be vulnerable to terrorist attacks or to fire or other disasters. We do not have redundant computer systems at any locations that are remote from Southern California or New York. Any damage to or failure of our computer systems could cause an interruption in our services that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure from damage that could occur from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the technology that we employ in our operations. Computer break-ins and security breaches also could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which could cause us to incur significant liability and possibly also damage our reputation. Other disruptions due to problems on the Internet or actions of Internet users could make it difficult for our customers to access our websites. In either case, problems of this nature could adversely affect our business and operating results, and security breaches that would adversely affect the privacy of customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their business relationships with us. Although we intend to continue to implement and upgrade sophisticated technology to prevent such disruptions and damage, there is no assurance that our security measures will prove to be adequate or successful. We rely on third parties for various Internet and processing services. Our operations depend on a number of third parties for Internet access and delivery services. We have limited control over these third parties and no long-term relationships with any of them. For example, we do not own a gateway onto the Internet, but, instead, rely on Internet service providers to connect our website to the Internet. Should the third parties that we rely on for Internet access or delivery services be unable to serve our needs for a sustained time period as a result of a strike, natural disaster or other reason, our revenues and business could be harmed. We are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have documented and tested the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect we will continue to incur costs, including accounting fees and other personnel costs in order to maintain compliance with that Section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Also, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to our practices, our reputation may be harmed or we may be subject to litigation. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors or we decide to suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our future financial results difficult. These factors include: § increases or decreases in number of collectibles or diamonds graded from period to period; § changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for our authentication and grading services, such as a decline in the popularity of certain collectibles and volatility in the prices of gold and other precious metals; 35 § changes in economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among collectors and consumers; and § the actions of our competitors. If, as a result of these or other conditions or factors, our quarterly operating results fall below expectations or we decide to suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends, securities market analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced declines in the trading price of their shares due to events of this nature have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, thus harming our business. No assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. In May 2006, our Board of Directors adopted a policy providing for the payment of cash dividends, initially at a rate of $0.08 per share per quarter, which was subsequently increased to $0.25 per share. As we disclosed previously, the continued payment of cash dividends was subject to a number of factors, including changes in market and financial conditions, and, therefore, there could be no assurance that the amount of the Company's cash dividend would not be reduced or the payment of cash dividends would not be suspended or discontinued by the Board of Directors. On September 26, 2008, the Board of Directors determined that, due to market and economic conditions, including the liquidity crisis in the United States, the prudent course of action would be, and the Board of Directors voted, to suspend the payment of cash dividends in order to preserve the Company's cash resources to support the continued implementation of the Company's strategic plan and the growth of its business. At the same time, the Board of Directors approved a 10% stock dividend on the Company's outstanding shares, commencing in November, 2008. See "MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ─ Dividends" in Part II of this Report. Provisions in our charter documents or in Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult or delay a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders: § our board of directors has the authority to issue additional common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; § there are limitations on who can call special meetings of our stockholders; and § stockholders may not take action by written consent. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 