Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are a multi-faceted organization encompassing numerous segments, each with its own particular risks and uncertainties. A wide range of factors could materially affect our financial results and the performance of our stock price. The most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: Our revenues are dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries, and a variety of factors could cause the overall levels of those expenditures to decline. Our revenues are highly dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical and other life sciences industries for advertising, promotional, marketing and sales, recruiting, clinical staffing and support and compliance services. Any decline in aggregate demand for these services could negatively affect our business. · Advertising, promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by pharmaceutical manufacturers have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by, among other things, governmental reform or private market initiatives intended to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products or by governmental, medical association or pharmaceutical industry initiatives designed to regulate the manner in which pharmaceutical manufacturers promote their products. · Consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could negatively affect certain of our business units by reducing overall outsourced expenditures, particularly in the sales, marketing and staffing areas. · Companies may elect to perform advertising, promotional, marketing, sales, compliance and other services internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, number of sales representatives employed internally in relation to demand for or the need to promote new and existing products and competition from other suppliers. · Companies may elect to perform clinical tasks internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, the number of clinical professionals employed internally in relation to the demand for or the need to develop new drug candidates, and competition from other suppliers. Many of the contracts under which we provide services are subject to termination on short notice, which may make our revenues less predictable. We provide services to many of our most significant clients under contracts that our clients may cancel on short notice (generally 10 to 120 days, depending on the specific business unit). In addition, many of our pharmaceutical sales contracts provide our clients with the opportunity to internalize the sales forces under contract. Although we have been successful in a number of cases in negotiating longer-term commitments and a non-cancelable initial period for pharmaceutical sales contracts, we cannot be assured that clients will renew relationships beyond the expiration date of existing contracts in any of our business units. We cannot assure you that our most significant clients will continue to do business with us over the long term. If any of our significant clients elect to cancel, convert or not renew their contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. We are in the process of integrating several significant acquisitions and expect to make future acquisitions which will involve additional risks For the past several years, a significant component of our growth strategy has been the addition through acquisitions of businesses that complement us strategically and are accretive to earnings. We have and will continue to seek to address the need to offer additional services through acquisitions of other companies, including the personnel such acquisitions may bring to us. The current market for acquisition targets in our industry is extremely competitive, and we may not be successful in continuing to identify, successfully bid for and complete acquisitions necessary to achieve our operational and financial goals. Some of our acquisitions, including the acquisition of PRS, inChord and Adheris, were completed only recently. Operational and financial integration of the acquired businesses is not yet complete and we may experience difficulties in completing the integration processes. Among other things, we are generally required to document internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for each of our acquired business units by the end of the first fiscal year following the year in which the acquisition occurs. We may not be successful in recognizing material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting for our acquired businesses and may have difficulty remedying any such material weaknesses on a timely basis. More generally, we may experience difficulties in the integration of personnel and technologies across diverse business platforms. Acquisitions involve numerous risks in addition to integration risk, including the following: · diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and · the potential loss of key customers or employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions, and related acquisition earnouts, may also cause us to deplete our cash reserves and/or increase our leverage, and therefore increase the financial risk of our capital structure; assume liabilities of the acquired businesses; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; or become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of new businesses are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our operational and consolidated financial results in a material way. We may not be successful in managing our infrastructure and resources to support continued growth. Our ability to grow also depends to a significant degree on our ability to successfully leverage our existing infrastructure to perform services for our clients, develop and successfully implement new sales channels for the services we offer and to enhance and expand the range of services that we can deliver to our customers. Our growth will also depend on a number of other factors, including our ability to · maintain the high quality of the services we provide to our customers; · increase our penetration with existing customers; · recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel; · implement operational and financial systems and additional management resources to operate efficiently and effectively regardless of market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or expand our operations effectively to address current or future demand and market conditions. If we are unable to manage our infrastructure and resources effectively, our business, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 7 We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. Significant changes in these regulations, or our failure to comply with them, could impose additional costs on us or otherwise negatively affect our operations. See the discussion under "Business - Government Regulation" above. Our services are subject to evolving industry standards and rapid technological changes. The markets for our services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introduction of new and enhanced services. To succeed, we must continue to enhance our existing services; introduce new services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet evolving customer requirements; integrate new services with existing services; achieve market acceptance for new services; and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may be adversely affected by customer concentration. We have two customers, individually, that accounted for in excess of 10% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, and our largest customer during such year accounted for 14% of net revenues. If any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of consolidated operations or consolidated financial position could be materially adversely affected. We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our key managerial and other employees are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Compensation for these key employees and management personnel is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and there can be no assurance that we will offer a level of compensation sufficient to do so. Equity-based compensation, including compensation in the form of options and restricted stock, plays an important role in our compensation of new and existing employees. Because of limitations on the number of shares available for future grant under our equity incentive plan, we may be unable to meet the compensation requirements of our key employees and management personnel. We may incur liability in connection with litigation. We are subject from time to time to claims made by third parties relating to our business. We do not believe that any claims that are currently pending will have a material adverse effect on us. Litigation is inherently uncertain, however, and we cannot assure you that we will not suffer such an effect as a consequence of any pending or future claims. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for a description of certain pending litigation. We may not be able to comply with the requirements of our credit facility. In connection with our acquisition of inChord, we entered into a syndicated credit facility with UBS AG, Stamford Branch and others. The current outstanding balance under this facility was approximately $174.6 million as of March 1, 2006, which is attributable to a $175 million term loan component. The term loan will mature on the sixth anniversary of the credit facility, with scheduled quarterly amortization of 1% per year during years one through five and 95% during year six. The revolving loans will mature on the sixth anniversary of the credit facility. Amounts advanced under the credit facility must be prepaid with a portion of our "Excess Cash Flow", as defined in the credit agreement. The credit facility contains numerous operating covenants that have the effect of reducing management's discretion in operating our businesses, including covenants limiting: · the incurrence of indebtedness; · the creation of liens on our assets; · sale-leaseback transactions; · acquisitions; · guarantees; · payment of dividends; and · fundamental changes and transactions with affiliates. The credit facility also requires that we meet certain ongoing performance tests relating to leverage, interest rate coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios that vary based on the amount of time elapsed since the initial extension of credit. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of the credit facility, our lenders could refuse to advance additional funds to us and/or seek to enforce remedies against us. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on inVentiv. As of the date of this report, we comply with the requirements of our credit facility. Our future financial results may not be consistent with our guidance. From time to time, we communicate to the market guidance relating to our revenue, earnings per share and other financial measures. These statements are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or assurances of our future performance. Our ability to meet any projected financial result milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on our published guidance. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure" above. Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you acquire them. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: · variations in operating results; · the gain or loss of significant customers or suppliers; · announcements relating to our acquisition of other businesses; · changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and our suppliers and the economy as a whole. 8 In addition, if the market for health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, consolidated operating results or consolidated financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents make any change in control more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may affect adversely the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: · limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; · our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval; · our ability to issue preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock without their approval; · provisions that provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including any vacancy resulting from an expansion of the board, may be filled by a vote of the directors in office at the time of the vacancy; and · advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at shareholders’ meetings. Our acquisition activity may dilute your equity interest and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. We have historically chosen to satisfy a significant portion of the consideration paid for acquired businesses in the form of shares of our common stock, including by reserving the right to satisfy a portion of any contingent, or "earnout", consideration, by issuing additional shares of our common stock. The potential earnout obligations under the terms of our completed acquisitions may be material individually or in the aggregate. Acquisitions we make in the future, and any earnout consideration from completed acquisitions that we satisfy through the issuance of our common stock, may significantly dilute your equity interest and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. A substantial number of our securities are eligible for future sale and this could affect the market price for our stock. The market price of our common stock could drop due to sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. As of March 3, 2006, we had 28,553,939 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, a total of 1,212,319 shares were subject to resale restrictions and will become eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 over the next several years or earlier if Ventiv elects to register those shares for resale on a voluntary basis. Shares issued in future acquisitions, and shares issued in satisfaction of earnout obligations under completed acquisitions, may add substantially to the number of shares available for future sale. In addition, as of March 3, 2006, approximately 2,956,705 shares of our common stock were subject to outstanding stock options. Holders of our stock options are likely to exercise them, if ever, at a time when we otherwise could obtain a price for the sale of our securities that is higher than the exercise price per security of the options or warrants. This exercise, or the possibility of this exercise, may reduce the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. Item 