Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, along with the other information contained in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect Bay National Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and risks that we are currently unaware of or that we do not currently consider material. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, us and our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write downs of assets by many financial institutions, including us. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate related loans, continued decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions. This market turmoil has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Because we currently serve limited market areas, we could be more adversely affected by an economic downturn in our market areas than our larger competitors who are more geographically diverse. Currently, our primary market areas are limited to the Baltimore metropolitan area, the Baltimore-Washington corridor and Maryland’s Eastern Shore. Although the economic decline has not impacted the suburban Maryland and Washington D.C. suburbs as adversely as other areas of the United States, it has caused an increase in unemployment and business failures and a significant decline in property values in the metropolitan areas. As a result, if any of these areas continues to suffer an economic downturn, our business and financial condition may be more severely affected than our larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve a more geographically diverse market area, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that exist in our primary market areas. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond 18 our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Further, if U.S. markets and economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our liquidity could be adversely affected. For example, further declines in the housing market could result in additional asset write downs, which could reduce our liquidity below required levels and require us to seek additional capital. There can be no guarantee, however, that such capital would be available when we require it or, if available, on favorable terms, and if we raise capital via the sale of common stock, the holdings of our current stockholders would be diluted. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Further, given that Bay National Bank is unable to issue brokered CDs without prior approval from the FDIC, the Bank’s inability to replace maturing brokered deposits with core deposits or cash flows from loan repayments may require us to generate liquidity through other means. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand operations through internal growth and deposit gathering could be materially impaired. Government regulation could restrict Bay National Corporation’s or Bay National Bank’s growth or cause Bay National Corporation or Bay National Bank to incur higher costs. Bay National Corporation and Bay National Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit the growth of Bay National Bank and the return to investors by restricting activities such as the payment of dividends; mergers with, or acquisitions by, other institutions; investments; loans and interest rates; interest rates paid on deposits; and the creation of branch offices. Laws and regulations could change at any time, and changes could adversely affect Bay National Corporation’s and Bay National Bank’s business. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect Bay National Corporation’s and Bay National Bank’s ability to operate profitably. In addition, the financial sector has recently been the focus on recent legislative debate and government intervention, and we anticipate that additional laws and regulations may be enacted in response to the current financial crises that could have an impact on our operations. Any changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Bay National Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Bay National Corporation and Bay National Bank depend heavily on one key employee, Mr. Hugh W. Mohler, and business would suffer if something were to happen to Mr. Mohler. Mr. Mohler is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Bay National Bank. If he were to leave for any reason, Bay National Corporation’s and Bay National Bank’s business would suffer because he has banking experience and relationships with clients and potential clients that would not be easy to replace. In addition, because Bay National Bank’s business is relationship-driven, the loss of an employee who has primary contact with one or more of Bay National Bank’s clients could cause Bay National Bank to lose those clients' business, possibly resulting in a decline in revenues. 19 If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of collateral for repayment. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we review and evaluate, among other things, our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. We are particularly susceptible to this risk because we have experienced significant growth in our residential real estate loan portfolio over the past few years. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our residential real estate loan portfolio is not significantly seasoned and there has been a downturn in the residential real estate market, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned or if the condition of the residential real estate market does not improve. If delinquencies and defaults continue to increase, we may be required to further increase our provision for credit losses. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Bay National Bank’s lending strategy involves risks resulting from the choice of loan portfolio. Bay National Bank's loan strategy emphasizes commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2008, such loans accounted for approximately 77% of the loan portfolio. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans may carry a higher degree of credit risk than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors including larger loan balances, dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, or loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. Bay National Bank’s lending limit may limit its growth and the growth of Bay National Corporation. Bay National Bank is limited in the amount it can loan to a single borrower by the amount of its capital. Specifically, under current law, Bay National Bank may lend up to 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. Bay National Bank’s lending limit is significantly less than that of many of its competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of Bay National Bank’s lending limit from conducting business with Bay National Bank. Bay National Bank faces substantial competition which could adversely affect its ability to attract depositors and borrowers. Bay National Bank operates in a competitive market for financial services and faces intense competition from other institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these institutions have been in business for numerous years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than Bay National Bank, and are able to offer certain services that Bay National Bank is not able to offer. If Bay National Bank cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, its operating results will suffer, as will its opportunities for growth. Bay National Bank's ability to compete may suffer if it cannot take advantage of technology to provide banking services or if its customers fail to embrace that technology. Bay National Bank’s business strategy relies less on customers' access to a large branch network and more on access to technology and personal relationships. Further, the market for financial services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and tele-banking. Bay National Bank’s ability to compete successfully may depend 20 on the extent to which Bay National Bank can take advantage of technological changes and the extent to which Bay National Bank’s customers embrace technology to complete their banking transactions. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans. Interest rates are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, and as a result, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks, in part, are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable interest margin. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These obligatory costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as the Company is not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. 21 Item 