D. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on AIXTRON's financial position, results of operations, liquidity and the actual outcome of matters that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report refer to. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. There may be additional risks AIXTRON is currently unaware of and risks that are common to most companies. There may also be risks that AIXTRON now believes are immaterial, but which may ultimately have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity and the actual outcome of matters that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report refer to. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, see "Forward-looking statements" included in this annual report. 4 Table of Contents Company-Related Risk The compound semiconductor and the semiconductor industries can be highly volatile and unpredictable, which may adversely affect AIXTRON's operating results and result in significant volatility in the market price of its ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares. The compound semiconductor and the semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry can be affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Although semiconductors are used in many different products, the markets for those products are interrelated to various degrees. The industry has historically experienced sudden changes in supply and demand for semiconductors. The timing, length and severity of these industry cycles are difficult to predict. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, AIXTRON needs to be able to quickly and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to manage its inventory levels to reduce the possibility of future inventory write-downs resulting from obsolescence, and to motivate and retain key employees. Because a high proportion of AIXTRON's costs are fixed in the near term, the Company's ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls is limited. During periods of rapid growth, AIXTRON's business must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. The Company's customers often accelerate or delay expenditures, as well as attempt to cancel or reschedule their orders, in reaction to variations in their businesses or market conditions. As a result, AIXTRON must be able to react quickly to these changes in supply and demand. A failure to quickly align the Company's cost structure and manufacturing capabilities with industry fluctuations could lead to significant losses or a failure to capitalize on increased demand. In either event, the results of operations may be adversely affected, which could result in significant volatility in the market price of the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs. Uncertainties of economic and political conditions, in particular by the current global macroeconomic slowdown, may adversely impact AIXTRON's financial position and results of operations. The U.S. economy and several other major economies experienced a sustained slowdown. Although AIXTRON had no bank borrowings during 2010, it has cash bank deposits. AIXTRON monitors the financial condition of its banking partners, but if one of AIXTRON's banking partners were to default before AIXTRON detected the problem or took appropriate measures, this could adversely impact AIXTRON's financial position. A global economic slowdown might adversely affect AIXTRON's customers and suppliers. In addition to the potential for reduced demand, AIXTRON customers might delay or cancel orders and suppliers might delay or cancel deliveries, which could adversely affect AIXTRON's ability to align its production capacity with its sales. These conditions might make it challenging for AIXTRON to plan and adapt, which could adversely impact AIXTRON's results of operations. In order to compete, AIXTRON must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and its failure to do so could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. In order to compete, AIXTRON must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to the Company's business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, AIXTRON relies heavily on paying cash compensation at market- competitive rates and offering additional incentives and bonus payments. If such cash payments cease to be viewed as a valuable benefit by the Company's key employees, the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate its employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect its results of operations and/or require AIXTRON to increase the amount it expends on cash and other forms of compensation. AIXTRON depends on a limited number of customers that operate in concentrated industries. AIXTRON's customer base has been and may in the future be concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of the Company's revenues, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to the Company. If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with AIXTRON or suffers economic setbacks, AIXTRON's business, financial condition and operating 5 Table of Contents results could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's ability to increase revenues in the future will depend in part upon its ability to obtain orders from new customers. AIXTRON cannot be certain that it will be able to do so. In addition, because a relatively small number of large manufacturers, many of whom are AIXTRON's customers, dominate the industries in which they operate, it may be especially difficult for the Company to replace these customers if it loses their business. A large portion of orders in AIXTRON's order backlog are orders from its principal customers. Furthermore, AIXTRON does not have long-term contracts with many of its customers. In times of substantial demand for Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition ("MOCVD") systems, certain customers may delay existing or new orders because of raw material shortages or delays in preparing their facilities. Any such delays could have a negative impact on customer acceptance of AIXTRON's systems, and ultimately, on its ability to generate revenues. As a result, the Company's agreements with its customers do not provide any assurance of future revenues and AIXTRON is exposed to competitive price pressure on most new orders it attempts to obtain. The Company's failure to obtain new orders from new or existing customers would have a negative impact on its results of operations. Because of the significant size of some orders and the limited ability of the Company to reduce expenses quickly in response to such delays, the Company may experience volatility in its results of operations. AIXTRON is dependent on a limited number of suppliers and the Company's operating results could be harmed if it loses access to sources of materials or services. The systems that AIXTRON produces are complex and require the Company to manufacture or obtain through third party sources many critical components. Many of these components are only available from a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, a single supplier. Because of the cost of AIXTRON's systems, the Company generally aims to keep its inventories at minimum levels. AIXTRON generally does not have long-term supply agreements with many of its suppliers. Consequently, the Company could experience significant price increases and/or may not be able to obtain replacement components in a timely manner or at all. Such price increases would increase the cost of goods which could adversely affect the Company's gross margins and operating results. Because AIXTRON often does not account for a significant part of its suppliers' business, the Company may not have access to sufficient capacity from these suppliers in periods of high demand. In addition, AIXTRON risks having important suppliers terminate product lines, change business focus or even go out of business. If AIXTRON was required to change any of its suppliers, it would be required to re-qualify each new supplier. In the near term, the Company's supplier qualification processes could prevent or delay component shipments, which could in turn prevent the Company from delivering products to its customers in a timely manner. AIXTRON estimates that it could take approximately six to eighteen months to replace suppliers of certain critical components used in its systems. In addition, in connection with third-party manufacturing activities, it is possible that AIXTRON may encounter unforeseen technical complexities that it may be unable to resolve, or that the resolution of such complexities may lead to delays in the implementation of these third-party manufacturing activities. AIXTRON's business operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes, and if the Company does not develop new products in a timely manner, it may not be able to compete successfully in this market. The introduction of new products and technologies occurs at a continuously increasing pace and grows increasingly complex over time. If AIXTRON's business does not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's competitive advantage and future success depend on its ability to: •successfully develop new products and technologies; •develop new markets for its products and services; •introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner; •qualify new products with its customers; and •commence and adjust production to meet customer demands. 6 Table of Contents AIXTRON's competitors may have greater resources than AIXTRON, or may otherwise be better suited to compete in the Company's markets, and AIXTRON's failure to compete successfully with these companies would seriously harm its business. Some of AIXTRON's competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company does. In addition, AIXTRON faces competition from smaller emerging equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that the Company's semiconductor equipment business offers, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. New product introductions or enhancements by AIXTRON's competitors could cause a decline in revenues or loss of market acceptance of AIXTRON's existing products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower margins. The Company's failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously harm its business. AIXTRON faces lengthy sales and qualification cycles for its products and, in many cases, must invest a substantial amount of time and funds with no assurance that these efforts or expenditures will result in revenues. Revenues from AIXTRON's systems primarily depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to invest in or upgrade its manufacturing capabilities, which typically involves a significant capital commitment by the customer. Customers usually place orders with AIXTRON between three to nine months, or longer, after the Company's initial contact with them regarding a particular system. AIXTRON often experiences delays in obtaining system orders while customers evaluate and receive internal approvals for the purchase of these systems. These delays may include the time necessary to plan, design or complete a new or expanded semiconductor fabrication facility. Due to these factors, the Company expends substantial funds as well as marketing and management efforts to sell its semiconductor production systems. These expenditures and efforts may not result in revenues. In order to expand its materials production capabilities, the Company has dedicated a number of its systems to the manufacture of wafers and devices. At any given time, some of AIXTRON's products are being tested to determine whether they meet customer or industry specifications. During such a qualification period, AIXTRON invests significant resources and dedicates substantial production capacity to the manufacture of these new products, prior to any commitment to purchase by the prospective customer and without generating significant revenues from the qualification process. If AIXTRON was unable to meet these specifications or does not receive sufficient customer orders to profitably use the dedicated production capacity, its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's future budgets for operating expenses, capital expenditures, operating leases and service contracts are based upon the Company's assumptions as to the anticipated market acceptance of its products. If AIXTRON's products do not meet the expected customer demand, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly, which may cause the market price of its ordinary shares and its ADSs to increase or decrease significantly. AIXTRON has historically experienced significant fluctuations in its quarterly operating results and the Company anticipates that such fluctuations will continue. AIXTRON's results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: •changes in the semiconductor market environment; •changes in regulations affecting the semiconductor industry; •changes in the mix or cost of its products and services; •the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products and services offered by AIXTRON or its competitors; and •exchange rate fluctuations, in particular between the Euro, the US-Dollar and the pound sterling. 7 Table of Contents In addition, the Company derives a substantial portion of its revenues in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a single transaction could have a material effect on total revenues and operating results for a particular reporting period. A delay of only a week or two can often shift the related realization of revenues into the next quarter, which could adversely affect the Company's ability to meet expectations. In addition, customers at times attempt to cancel or reschedule orders, even when not permitted to do so under the contractual terms of the purchase order. As stated above, AIXTRON has experienced long and unpredictable sales cycles. The timing of an order often depends on the capital expenditure budget cycle of customers. In addition, the time it takes the Company to build a product to customer specifications, which the Company refers to as the build cycle, typically ranges from four to nine months, followed in certain cases by a period of customer acceptance during which the customer evaluates the performance of AIXTRON's system and may potentially reject such system. As a result of the build cycle and evaluation periods, the period between a customer's initial purchase decision and revenue recognition on an order often varies widely, and variations in length of this period can cause further fluctuations in operating results. The factors described above, together with the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, could cause the market price of AIXTRON's ordinary shares and its ADSs to fluctuate significantly. AIXTRON's business is exposed to the risks of operating an international business. AIXTRON's business has operations located in many countries throughout the world to support the Company's sales and services to the global semiconductor industry. Managing international operations located in many countries throughout the world presents complex management challenges. These challenges may make it more difficult for AIXTRON to implement business strategies and enforce centralized business processes and controls across its enterprise. AIXTRON is highly dependent on international revenues, particularly revenues from Asian countries. Revenues outside of Europe accounted for 96.04% of the Company's total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, versus 86.30% for the year ended December 31, 2009, and 93.27% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenues from AIXTRON's Asian-based customers accounted for 91.46% for the year ended December 31, 2010, versus 82.56% for the year ended December 31, 2009, and 86.79% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. AIXTRON anticipates that international revenues, including revenues from Asia, will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenues. As a result, a significant portion of the Company's revenues will be subject to risks, including: •unexpected changes in foreign law or regulatory requirements; •exchange rate volatility; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •political and economic instability; •military confrontation; •difficulties in accounts receivable collection; •extended payment terms; •difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; •difficulties in staffing its subsidiaries; •difficulties in managing foreign subsidiary operations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. Wherever currency devaluations occur abroad, AIXTRON's products become more expensive for its customers in that country. In addition, difficult economic conditions may limit capital spending by the Company's customers. These circumstances may also affect the ability of AIXTRON's customers to meet their payment obligations, resulting in cancellations or deferrals of existing orders and the limitation of additional orders. 8 Table of Contents Exchange rate fluctuations, in particular between the Euro, the US-Dollar and the pound sterling, could adversely affect AIXTRON's ability to price its products competitively and its operating results. The Company's operations are conducted by entities in many countries and a substantial portion of its sales and productions costs are denominated in currencies other than the Euro. As a result, fluctuations between the value of the Euro and other major currencies, in particular the US-Dollar and the pound sterling, may affect the Company's operating results. AIXTRON may not be able to effectively reduce or eliminate the risk that fluctuations in foreign currencies will adversely affect its operating results. Further details can be found in "Item 11, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk." Because AIXTRON's operating income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdiction, the Company is exposed to a number of different tax risks. Because AIXTRON operates in a number of countries throughout the world, including the U.S., its operating income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. AIXTRON seeks to organize its affairs in a tax efficient and balanced manner, taking into account the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates. As a result of the Company's multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks, including tax risks related to: income tax, value added tax, payroll tax, social security tax, customs and excise duties, sales and use tax, U.S. state tax, withholding tax requirements, tax treaty interpretation, tax credits, permanent establishments, transfer pricing on internal deliveries of goods and services (including benefit tests and requirements to prove the arm's length character of internal transactions), loss carryforwards, multi- jurisdictional double taxation, acquisitions, dispositions, reorganizations, and internal restructurings. The tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which AIXTRON operates may audit the Company's tax returns and may disagree with the positions taken in those returns. An adverse outcome resulting from any settlement or future examination of AIXTRON's tax returns may subject the Company to additional tax liabilities and may adversely affect its effective tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, any examination by the tax authorities could cause AIXTRON to incur significant legal expenses and divert the Company's management's attention from the operation of its business. AIXTRON is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. AIXTRON has in the past and may in the future undertake acquisitions of or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions, or other significant investments, involve many risks, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; •lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; •revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; •difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; •the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; •claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; •the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of AIXTRON's cash; •diversion of AIXTRON's management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; and •the impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies. 9 Table of Contents AIXTRON may not be successful in addressing the risks that its past or future acquisitions may present and the Company may fail to realize the perceived benefits of such acquisitions. AIXTRON may increase production in anticipation of customer orders that may not materialize, which would negatively affect the Company's operating results. AIXTRON schedules production of its systems based upon order backlog and customer commitments. Based on the complexity of the systems that AIXTRON produces, the Company must expend considerable efforts in hiring, training and retaining qualified manufacturing personnel. AIXTRON has in the past experienced delays in customer delivery schedules, as well as outright cancellations of orders. As a consequence, the Company may incur significant near term expenses for manufacturing capabilities that it may not be able to fully utilize, which would negatively affect its gross margins and its profitability. Moreover, industry analysts evaluate AIXTRON's backlog in determining the Company's prospects. If AIXTRON experiences significant reductions in its backlog as a result of cancellations or the Company's failure to obtain new orders, it could experience negative ratings from analysts which could adversely impact the trading value of the Company's stock. The semiconductor industry and AIXTRON's operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or otherwise difficult to reduce in the short-term, and by product demand that is highly variable and is subject to significant downturns that may adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The semiconductor industry and AIXTRON's operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, research and development, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short-term. At the same time, demand for the Company's products is highly variable and downturns have been experienced, often in connection with maturing product cycles and downturns in general economic market conditions. These downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity, high inventory levels and decreased average selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause AIXTRON's revenue, gross margin, cash flow and profitability to vary significantly both in the short-term and over the long-term. AIXTRON's businesses use potentially harmful chemicals and other hazardous materials. AIXTRON is subject to environmental risks and regulations which could harm the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's research and development activities, as well as the manufacturing and demonstration of AIXTRON's products, involve the use of potentially harmful chemical and other hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. AIXTRON cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, AIXTRON could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed the Company's resources. AIXTRON is subject to the laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The Company's cost of compliance with these laws and regulations include local, state and federal fees and costs related to the installation and maintenance of safeguards to mitigate the risk of potential release of hazardous materials (including equipment safeguards, such as scrubbers). The amounts expended in compliance with these laws and regulations to date have not had a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. However, if stricter laws were passed or applicable environmental laws were more strictly enforced, AIXTRON may incur significant additional capital expenditure to address compliance with such environmental laws and regulations. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of production, each of which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new climate change regulations could require AIXTRON to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. Furthermore, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs for AIXTRON. The Company expects increased worldwide regulatory activity 10 Table of Contents in the future. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on AIXTRON's business plans and operating results. AIXTRON is exposed to the risk that third parties may violate the Company's proprietary rights or accuse the Company of infringing upon their proprietary rights. AIXTRON's success in the markets in which it operates may depend on its ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing the Company's intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the semiconductor industry. AIXTRON may become a party to patent litigation or proceedings to determine its patent rights with respect to third parties, including, potentially, its customers. Interference proceedings may be necessary to establish which party was the first to discover certain intellectual property. AIXTRON may also become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce the Company's patent rights, to invalidate patents held by third parties, or to defend against similar claims by others. The cost to AIXTRON of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may require significant management time. Any patent infringement litigation may also adversely affect the Company's ADS or ordinary share prices. If infringement litigation against the Company was resolved unfavorably, AIXTRON may be enjoined from providing some of its products or services, or the Company may be required to obtain a license from a third party. AIXTRON may not be able to obtain the requisite license on commercially acceptable terms at all, which could require the Company to cease selling systems that contain infringing technology until it can identify and implement subsystems that do not infringe on third party technology. AIXTRON may not be successful in developing non-infringing solutions and may be prevented from selling its systems, which could result in a significant reduction in the Company's revenues and a reduction in the value of its ordinary shares and ADSs. The Company's competitive position may depend on its ability to protect its intellectual property rights and trade secrets. If AIXTRON was unable to protect such rights and secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against it, and the Company's business could suffer. AIXTRON's success is dependent upon the protection of the Company's proprietary rights. In the high-tech industry, intellectual property is an important asset that is always at risk of infringement. AIXTRON incurs costs to file for patents and defend its intellectual property and AIXTRON relies upon the laws of Germany and of foreign countries in which it develops, manufactures or sells its products to protect its proprietary rights. However, there can be no assurance that these proprietary rights will provide competitive advantages, or that other parties will not challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in Germany and the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Infringement upon the Company's proprietary rights by a third party could result in lost market and revenue opportunities for AIXTRON. AIXTRON relies on trade secret protection for its confidential and proprietary information and procedures. AIXTRON currently protects this information and these procedures as trade secrets through recognized practices, including confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and customers. These confidentiality agreements may be breached, however, and AIXTRON may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, these trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently discovered by, competitors. If AIXTRON's trade secrets were to become known to, or be independently discovered by, competitors, the Company's competitive position and its business may be negatively impacted. Risks Relating to holding AIXTRON's ADSs and Ordinary Shares You may be unable to enforce a judgment against AIXTRON or members of its Executive Board or Supervisory Board. AIXTRON is a stock corporation organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany. None of the members of its Supervisory or Executive Boards is currently a citizen or resident of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these individuals and most of the assets of the Company are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to enforce against AIXTRON judgments obtained in the United States. You may also encounter difficulties in connection 11 Table of Contents with the enforcement in Germany of liabilities based solely upon United States laws in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of United States courts. You may have access to less information about AIXTRON and fewer opportunities to exercise your rights as a shareholder if you hold AIXTRON's ordinary shares through its ADSs. The rights and terms of AIXTRON's ADSs are designed to replicate, to the extent reasonably practicable, the rights applicable to the Company's ordinary shares, for which there is no active trading market in the United States. However, because of aspects of German law, the Company's Articles of Association and the contractual terms of the deposit agreement under which AIXTRON's ADSs are issued, your rights as a holder of ADSs will differ in various ways from a shareholder's rights, and you may be affected in other ways, including: •you may not be able to participate in rights offerings or dividend alternatives; •you may not receive copies of AIXTRON's reports as promptly as a holder of ordinary shares; •you will be able to exercise voting rights only by instructing the depositary how to exercise the voting rights of the shares that underlie your ADSs, and due to logistical, timing and other issues, you may not receive the opportunity to exercise a right to vote; •the deposit agreement may be amended by the Company and the depositary, or may be terminated by AIXTRON or the depositary, without your consent in a manner that could prejudice your rights; and •the deposit agreement limits AIXTRON's obligations and liabilities and those of the depositary. As a holder of AIXTRON's ADSs you may have fewer or less well-defined shareholders' rights compared to a holder of common stock of a U.S. company. AIXTRON's corporate affairs are governed by its Articles of Association (Satzung) and German law. German law is generally less specific than U.S. law in terms of governance of corporate operations. Under German law, as a holder of AIXTRON's ADSs you may have fewer or less well-defined rights than you would as a shareholder of a U.S. company. For example, a shareholder of a U.S. corporation may institute lawsuits on behalf of the corporation and class actions. In Germany the company must assert claims for damages against members of the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board upon a respective shareholders' resolution requiring a simple majority of the votes cast. Moreover, in Germany, shareholders whose shares represent 1% or a proportional amount of EUR 100,000 of the stated share capital of the stock corporation may apply in court for authorization to assert claims for damages of the Company against members of the Executive Board and/or the Supervisory Board in their own name. However, the Company may at any time assert its claims for damages on its own behalf; in such case any pending authorization or court proceeding initiated by a shareholder of the Company related to the same claims for damages will then be inadmissible. As a result, a shareholder of a German stock corporation may not be able to protect his or her interest in the shares as well as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation could. AIXTRON may in the future be considered a passive foreign investment company. The United States Internal Revenue Code contains special rules relating to passive foreign investment companies ("PFICs"). A United States holder who owns stock in a PFIC is generally subject to adverse tax consequences under these rules. These rules do not apply to non-United States holders. A company is treated as a PFIC if at least 75% of the company's gross income for a taxable year consists of "passive income," defined generally as income from passive investments, as opposed to operating income. A company is also treated as a PFIC if the average percentage of the value of its assets, including cash balances that produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. While AIXTRON believes it is currently not a PFIC, because a company's status as a PFIC is a complex, factual determination made on an annual basis, there can be no assurance that the Company will not become a PFIC in the future. Further details about the PFIC rules and their consequences to United States holders can be found under "Item 10 Additional Information—Taxation." If AIXTRON was classified as a PFIC, unless a U.S. holder made a timely specific election, a special tax regime would apply to any "excess distribution," which would be such holder's share of distributions in any year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received by 12 Table of Contents such holder in the three preceding years or such holder's holding period, if shorter; and any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs. Under this regime, any excess distribution and realized gain would be treated as ordinary income and would be subject to tax as if the excess distribution or gain had been realized ratably over such holder's holding period for the ADSs. A U.S. holder will generally be required to pay taxes on the amount allocated to a year at the highest marginal tax rate and pay interest on the prior year's taxes, unless such U.S. holder is able to ameliorate the tax consequences somewhat by making a mark-to-market election or "QEF election". You should consult your tax advisor of the consequences of AIXTRON's classification as a PFIC. Because AIXTRON is not obligated to continue to have its ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, your ability to trade the ADSs may be eliminated in the future, and the market prices of the Company's ADSs and ordinary shares may be negatively affected and it may become more difficult to sell the ordinary shares. Because AIXTRON is not obligated to continue to have the ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, AIXTRON could delist its ADSs, which could adversely affect the market price for the ADSs and ordinary shares. In addition, if the ADSs are no longer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, there can be no assurance that a market will develop for the ADSs and it will be more difficult for a United States holder to sell the underlying ordinary shares. Identification of deficiencies or weaknesses in AIXTRON's internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of its securities. The Company's management is required to prepare a report relating to its evaluation of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, as required pursuant to Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"). AIXTRON intends to take prompt measures to eliminate any identified deficiencies or weaknesses in the Company's internal control structure. Such measures may involve significant effort and expense. Depending on the nature and extent of any identified deficiency or weakness, AIXTRON could be required to restate previously issued financial statements. Any of such actions may have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of its securities. 