Item 1A Risk Factors 8 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 23 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II. Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 51 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B Other Information 88 PART III. Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11 Executive Compensation 89 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV. Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Signatures 97 Exhibit Index 99 Table of Contents PART I In addition to historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and industry, and our beliefs and assumptions. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “will” and variations of these words and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements that were believed to be true at the time made may ultimately prove to be incorrect or false. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Kana Software, Inc. (the “Company” or “KANA”) offers an innovative approach to customer service with cost-effective solutions that enhance the quality of multi-channel customer interactions. Built on open standards for a high degree of adaptability and integration, KANA solutions intelligently automate the processes needed to successfully serve our clients’ customers, so that our clients can deliver higher value service at lower cost, increasing customer retention and loyalty. We provide an integrated solution which enables organizations to deliver consistent, managed service across all channels, including e-mail, chat, call centers and Web self-service, ensuring a consistent service experience across communication channels. We are headquartered in Menlo Park, California, with offices in Japan and throughout the United States and Europe. We were incorporated in July 1996 in California and reincorporated in Delaware in September 1999. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “we,” “our” and “us” collectively refer to KANA, our predecessor and our subsidiaries and their predecessors. Our principal executive offices are located at 181 Constitution Drive, Menlo Park, California 94025 and our telephone number is (650) 614-8300. Our Internet website is located at http://www.kana.com. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All such filings are also available at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information regarding the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-(800)-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC which can be found at http://www.sec.gov. Our Strategy Deliver world-class products & solutions that focus on improving customer loyalty and retention, increasing corporate revenue and reducing the cost to provide customer service. We believe that a significant percentage of an enterprise’s cost of providing service to its customers resides in efficiently and effectively answering individual customer questions and problems, or cases. These cases must be received, routed, tracked and resolved by customer service agents. While many enterprises possess technology capable of routing and tracking cases, the actual resolution of customer issues is largely unautomated, and therefore is particularly costly. Our knowledge-powered customer service solutions focus on automating the service experience across 1 Table of Contents multiple channels. The majority of our license revenues are for applications that are used by our customers’ agents (Assisted Service), or directly by their customers (Web Self-Service), empowering them with knowledge and information to resolve their issues. Partner with the world’s leading systems integrators. Our strategy is to focus our efforts on the sale of software and support and to enter into strategic relationships with leading systems integrators in order to provide our customers with a wide range of implementation, systems integration and consulting services. Our professional services organization was augmented in 2007 by our acquisition of eVergance Partners LLC (“eVergance”), a consulting and services firm that provides our systems integrator partners with additional resources and subject matter expertise on our applications. Our customers can benefit from these systems integrators’ deep expertise of our products, as well as their industry knowledge and proven integration success. In addition, these systems integrators employ larger sales forces than we do, and we generally coordinate our sales efforts with them. Deliver industry-specific applications. Some industries, such as banking, telecommunications and healthcare, have exceptionally high volumes of customer interactions, and providing consistent and accurate feedback to customers of companies in these industries has become increasingly difficult as the products and offerings of such companies have become increasingly complicated. We continue to expand our portfolio of applications through our professional services and systems integrator relationships. Products We provide a suite of customer service software. Around the world, our multi-channel customer service solutions are helping global 2000 companies provide more intelligent, effective interactions with customers, helping them build loyal and lasting customer relationships while reducing costs in the contact center. Our suite of multi-channel solutions is built on open standards for a high degree of adaptability and flexibility. Our solutions provide a critical link between call centers and transactional back end systems, allowing organizations to have effective, efficient interactions with customers across points of contact (including Web, telephone and e-mail) and throughout the enterprise. We employ robust reporting tools across our entire product family to allow companies to continually analyze and improve their customer and partner relationships. These features enable global 2000 companies and other enterprises to reduce the cost of information access for their employees, customers and partners while creating profitable customer relationships. Our customers can deploy our multi-channel solutions as a complete suite or as separate applications. Our solutions include the following products: • KANA IQ—Bringing together a self-service application for customers along with an assisted-service solution for contact center agents, KANA IQ is a sophisticated knowledge base that enables customers and agents alike to quickly and accurately locate the information they need. • KANA Response—KANA Response is a high-performance e-mail management system that enables agent-assisted service with fast, high-volume, intelligent, automated e-mail, Web and instant messaging request management. • KANA ResponseIQ—KANA ResponseIQ is a tightly-integrated combination of KANA IQ and KANA Response that enables companies to better manage e-mail responses to customer inquiries by accessing a common knowledge base that routes requests through appropriate communications channels. ResponseIQ either automatically responds to customers’ requests with answers to their questions or, when an automatic answer is unavailable or the customer indicates that the automatic answer is not sufficient, forwards requests to the most qualified agents based on the rules set by the organization. • KANA Contact Center—KANA Contact Center is a multi-channel customer service application for contact centers that provides request management, solution publishing, self-service capabilities and extranet workflow. 2 Table of Contents Our applications are designed to easily integrate with other enterprise software and legacy systems. They can be installed on systems running Solaris, AIX, Linux or Windows operating systems, and provide customers with capabilities for personalization, customer profile management, inquiry management, universal business rules, knowledge management and extranet workflow. They can be linked with customers’ legacy systems allowing customers to design their systems to preserve previous investments. Our service oriented architecture uses data modeling to make data located in external systems available in our application without requiring the data to be moved or replicated. Our applications are built on a single Web-architected platform, which we refer to as our Enterprise Application Framework. This service-oriented framework provides our customers with full access to our applications using a standard Web browser and without requiring them to install additional software on their individual computers. We also offer our applications on a hosted basis, through our Enterprise OnDemand service offering where we offer our solutions in a managed service environment. The Enterprise OnDemand service offering delivers enterprise-class security, reliability and performance needed for high-volume customer service operations. Alliances We enter into strategic relationships with leading systems integrators that have developed significant expertise with our Web-architected applications and are able to provide customers with a wide range of consulting, implementation and systems integration services. In addition, many of these systems integrators act as resellers for our products, and we rely on them for assistance in driving our sales efforts. We believe that support for our products by these systems integrators is increasingly important in influencing new customers’ decisions to license our products. Our systems integrator partners include Accenture and International Business Machines (“IBM”) Business Consulting Services. These systems integrators have been integral to our success in selling our products to large-organizations such as Best Buy, Cummins, Dell Computer Corp., eBay, Highmark, O2, Sprint, Wachovia and Yahoo!. Services and Support Customer Support. Our customer support group uses our own applications to provide multi-channel global support for our customers and partners, including phone and e-mail support and soon will be releasing self-service support solutions via our KANA Customer and KANA Partner customer support portals. Professional Services. Our worldwide consulting and education services group provides business and technical expertise to support our customers and alliance partners. Our consulting services group works closely with our customers to address the people and process areas common to every enterprise deployment along with systems integrators during implementations to lend technical experience and functional product expertise and to assist the systems integrators in providing our customers with high-quality, successful, enterprise-wide implementations. Education services provide a full set of training programs and materials for our customers and partners, including a comprehensive set of courses for end users, business consultants and developers, which are available through instructor-led, Web-based and on-site classes. Each of our service groups provides up-to-date information to our customers and partners through quarterly newsletters, as well as real time updates to our customer and partner facing knowledge base. Sales Our sales strategy is to focus on global 2000 companies through our direct sales force with a named account strategy. We have focused sales teams on three targeted verticals—financial services, communications and federal government—as well as commercial sales teams that cover named accounts within geographical territories. We maintain direct sales personnel across the United States and internationally in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Japan and Canada. Our Inside Sales Organization focuses on a departmental strategy within the global 2000 non-named accounts and the high end of the mid-market. We also have an international sales group that works with our existing customers to renew their maintenance. 3 Table of Contents Customers Our customers range from global 2000 companies to growing companies pursuing an e-business strategy. The following is a list of customers that we believe are representative of our overall customer base: Financial Services Communications Ameritrade AT&T Axa BellCanada Bank of America BellSouth Bank Leumi Carphone Warehouse Capital One Comcast Citizens Bank Eircom Citigroup Hutchison 3G Create Services (Lloyds TSB) O2 ING Postbank Sprint JP Morgan Chase Telenet Prudential Telenor PricewaterhouseCoopers Telekom Austria Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company Telstra TD Waterhouse Time Warner Cable Wachovia TracFone Wireless, Inc. Washington Mutual Verizon Communications Wells Fargo Verizon Wireless Wanadoo Nederland B.V. Health Care Government/Education Aetna Open University Allergan State of California Blue Cross Blue Shield Minnesota State of Ohio Cigna Her Majesty Revenues & Customs (HMRC) Highmark United States Postal Services Kaiser Permanente Optima Health United Health Group Virgin Life Care High Technology Transportation/Hospitality Amadeus America West Airlines Capgemini Best Western International Dell Computer Corp. British Airways Earthlink Delta Airlines eBay Disney Hewlett-Packard Icelandic Air Jet Blue Airways 4 Table of Contents High Technology Transportation/Hospitality IBM KLM LinkedIn Northwest Airlines Malam Information Technologies Priceline.com NEC Starwood Hotels Palm Travelocity Siemens Texas Instruments Yahoo! Manufacturing/Consumer Goods Retail Canon 1-800-Flowers Creative Labs Avon.com Cummins Barnes & Noble.com Daimler-Chrysler Best Buy Nissan eBay Polycom Home Depot Taylor Made Staples.com Xerox Target The Gap Tiffany & Company No customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2007. A portion of our license and services revenues in any given quarter has been, and we expect will continue to be, generated from a limited number of customers. We consider ourselves to be in a single industry segment—specifically, the licensing and support of our software applications. Revenue classification is based upon customer location. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for geographic information on revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. Research and Development We believe that strong product development capabilities are essential to our strategy of enhancing our core technology, developing additional applications incorporating that technology and maintaining the competitiveness of our product and service offerings. We have invested significant time and resources in creating a structured process for undertaking all product development. We began to significantly reduce the scope of our outsourced development activities in early 2005 to better align our costs with our revenues. In 2006, we began to move all product development back on-shore to our offices in Menlo Park, California and Manchester, New Hampshire. This redeployment reduced our cost and dependency on outside firms. In early January 2007, we completed the back-shoring of our development environment. Our success significantly depends on our ability to enhance our existing customer service solutions and to develop new services, functionality and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers. The challenges of developing new products and enhancements require us to commit a substantial amount of resources. We might not be able to develop or introduce new products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all, which could lead existing and potential customers to choose a competitor’s products. Our research and development expenses were $12.7 million, $10.8 million and $13.2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 5 Table of Contents Competition The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We currently face competition for our products from software designed by our customers’ in-house development teams and by third parties. We expect these competing software applications to continue to be a major source of competition for the foreseeable future. Our primary competitors for customer relationship management (“CRM”) software platforms are larger, more established companies such as Oracle. We also face competition from Chordiant Software, ATG, Amdocs, Consona, Talisma, eGain, RightNow, Instranet, Inquira and Pegasystems with respect to several specific applications we offer. We may face increased competition upon introduction of new products or upgrades from competitors, especially knowledge-powered products. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our industry include having a significant base of customers recommending our products, the breadth and depth of a given solution, product cost, product quality and performance, customer service, product scalability and reliability, product features, ability to implement solutions and perception of financial position. We believe that our products currently compete favorably with respect to many of these factors, and, in particular, that our Web-based architecture provides us with a competitive advantage because it allows for greater product scalability and rapid implementation. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other resources, and who may, for example, be able to add features or functionality to their competing products more quickly or decide to sell their products to their existing customer bases for other products. Seasonality Our business is influenced by seasonal trends, largely due to customer buying patterns. These trends may include higher license revenues in the fourth quarter as many customers complete annual budgetary cycles and lower license revenues in the first quarter and summer months when many of our prospects and customers experience lower sales. Our professional services are negatively impacted in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season, in which fewer billable hours are available for our consultants. In addition, our international operations experience a slow down in the summer months. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently have five issued U.S. patents, three of which expire in 2018 and two of which expire in 2020, and a number of U.S. patent applications pending. We have also filed international patent applications corresponding to some of our U.S. applications. In addition, we have several trademarks that are registered or pending registration in the U.S. and abroad. Although we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our technology, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product development, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance are more essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology or to develop products with the same functionality as our products. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Also, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Furthermore, our competitors could independently develop technologies equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent such competitors from selling products incorporating those technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. 6 Table of Contents Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. We expect that software in our industry may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Some of our competitors in the market for customer communications software may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology that they may claim our technology infringes. Such competitors could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products and technology. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents upon which our current or future products or technology infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. See Item 1A “Risk Factors”—“We may become involved in litigation over proprietary rights, which could be costly and time consuming.” Backlog As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $20.1 million and $18.7 million, respectively, in backlog, which relates to firm orders, with $419,000 and $523,000, respectively, not expected to be recognized within one year due to the timing of obligations in the underlying agreements. The majority of these firm orders relates to annual support contracts, and was invoiced and recorded as deferred revenue as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 225 full-time employees, compared to 181 full-time employees as of December 31, 2006. Of the 225 employees at December 31, 2007, 68 were in our services and support group, 63 were in sales and marketing, 53 were in research and development and 41 were in finance, legal, information technology (“IT”) and administration. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risks and uncertainty, including but not limited to the specific risks identified below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that impair our business operations. Any of these risks could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual results to differ materially from expectations. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this report and our other public filings. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses and may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. Since we began operations in 1997, our revenues have not been sufficient to support our operations, and we have incurred substantial operating losses every year. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $4.3 billion, which includes approximately $2.7 billion related to goodwill impairment charges. Our stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2007 was $4.4 million. We continue to commit a substantial investment of resources to sales, product marketing and developing new products and enhancements, and we will need to increase our revenues to achieve profitability and positive cash flows. Our expectations as to when we can achieve positive cash flows, and as to our future cash balances, are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding improvements in general economic conditions and customer purchasing and payment patterns, many of which are beyond our control. Our history of losses has previously caused some of our potential customers to question our viability, which has in turn hampered our ability to sell some of our products. Additionally, our revenues have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions in recent years, both generally and in our market. As a result of these conditions, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience difficulties in attracting new customers, which means that, even if sales of our products and services grow, we may continue to experience losses, which may cause the price of our stock to decline. The relatively large size of many of our expected license transactions could contribute to our failure to meet expected sales in any given quarter and could materially harm our operating results. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors. Our revenues are especially subject to fluctuation because they depend on the completion of relatively large orders for our products and related services. The average size of our license transactions is generally large relative to our total revenues in any quarter, particularly as we have focused on larger enterprise customers, on licensing our more comprehensive integrated products, and have involved systems integrators in our sales process. If sales expected from a specific customer in a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, we are unlikely to be able to generate revenue from alternate sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of additional factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to retain and increase our customer base, changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors, the sales cycle for our products, our fixed expenses, the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients, and general economic, industry and marketing conditions. This dependence on large orders makes our revenues and operating results more likely to vary from quarter to quarter, and more difficult to predict, because the loss of any particular large order is significant. In recent periods, we have experienced increases in the length of a typical sales cycle. This trend may add to the uncertainty of our future operating results and reduce our ability to anticipate our future revenues. Moreover, to the extent that significant sales occur earlier than anticipated, revenues for subsequent quarters may be lower than expected. As a result, our operating results could suffer if any large orders are delayed or canceled in any future period. In part as a result of this aspect of our business, our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet the expectations of investors and public market analysts, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to forecast our revenues accurately because our products have a long and variable sales cycle and we rely on systems integrators for sales. The long sales cycle for our products may cause license revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. To date, the sales cycle for most of our product sales has taken anywhere from 6 to 9 months. Our sales cycle typically requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of individuals within our customers’ organizations. Along with third parties that often jointly market our software with us, we invest significant amount of time and resources educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Many of our customers evaluate our software slowly and deliberately, depending on the specific technical capabilities of the customer, the size of the deployment, the complexity of the customer’s network environment, and the quantity of hardware and the degree of hardware configuration necessary to deploy our products. Furthermore, we rely to a significant extent on systems integrators to identify, influence and manage large transactions with customers, and we expect this trend to continue as our industry consolidates. Selling our products in conjunction with our systems integrators who incorporate our products into their offerings can involve a particularly long and unpredictable sales cycle, as it typically takes more time for the prospective customer to evaluate proposals from multiple vendors. In addition, when systems integrators propose the use of our products to their customers, it is typically part of a larger project, which can require additional levels of customer approvals. We have little or no control over the sales cycle of an integrator-led transaction or our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal decision-making and acceptance processes. As a result of increasingly long sales cycles, we have faced increased difficulty in predicting our operating results for any given period, and have experienced significant unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues from period to period. Any failure to achieve anticipated revenues for a period could cause our stock price to decline. Our business relies heavily on customer service solutions, and these solutions may not gain market acceptance. We have made customer service solutions our main focus and, have allocated a significant portion of our research and development and marketing resources to the development and promotion of such products. If these products are not accepted by potential customers, our business would be materially adversely affected. For our current business model to succeed, we believe that we will need to convince new and existing customers of the merits of purchasing our customer service solutions over traditional CRM solutions and competitors’ customer service solutions. Many of these customers have previously invested substantial resources in adopting and implementing their existing CRM products, whether such products are ours or are those of our competitors. We may be unable to convince customers and potential customers the benefits of purchasing substantial new software packages that provide our specific customer service capabilities. If our strategy of offering customer service solutions fails, we may not be able to sell sufficient quantities of our product offerings to generate significant license revenues, and our business could be harmed. Our expenses are generally fixed and we will not be able to reduce these expenses quickly if we fail to meet our revenue expectations. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, are relatively fixed in the short term. Other expenses like leases are fixed and are more long term. Moreover, our forecast is based, in part, upon our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, in any particular quarter our total revenues can be below expectation and we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Accordingly, such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate negative effect on our expected operating results for that quarter. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to generate sufficient revenues to support our business and require additional financing, failure to obtain such financing would affect our ability to maintain our operations and to grow our business, and the terms of any financing we obtain may impair the rights of our existing stockholders. In the future, we may be required to seek additional financing to fund our operations or growth, and such financing may not be available to us, or may impair the rights of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any failure to raise sufficient capital in a timely fashion could prevent us from growing or pursuing our strategies or cause us to limit our operations and cause potential customers to question our financial viability. We had cash and cash equivalents of $4.3 million at December 31, 2007, and as of such date, had contractual commitments of $6.6 million in 2008. It is possible that our cash position could decrease over the next few quarters and some customers could become increasingly concerned about our cash situation and our ongoing ability to update and maintain our products. This could significantly harm our sales efforts. Factors such as the commercial success of our existing products and services, the timing and success of any new products and services, the progress of our research and development efforts, our results of operations, the status of competitive products and services, and the timing and success of potential strategic alliances or potential opportunities to acquire or sell technologies or assets may require us to seek additional funding sooner than we expect. In the event that we require additional cash, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, especially in the current uncertain market climate, and we may not be successful in implementing or negotiating other arrangements to improve our cash position. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced and the securities we issue might have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat business, our operating results could be harmed. Our business model generally depends on the sale of our products to new customers as well as on expanded use of our products within our customers’ organizations. If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from our current and future customers, our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. In some cases, our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services for pilot programs. These customers may not purchase additional licenses to expand their use of our products. If these customers do not successfully develop and deploy initial applications based on our products, they may choose not to purchase deployment licenses or additional development licenses. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our products, new product lines or new product features, our current customers might not require the additional functionality we offer and might not ultimately license these products. Furthermore, because the total amount of maintenance and support fees we receive in any period depends in large part on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold, any downturn in our software license revenues would negatively affect our future services revenue. Also, if customers elect not to renew their support agreements, our services revenue could decline significantly. If customers are unable to pay for their current products or are unwilling to purchase additional products, our revenues would decline. Additionally, a substantial percentage of our sales come from repeat customers. If a significant existing customer or a group of existing customers decide not to repeat business with us, our revenues would decline and our business would be harmed. We face substantial competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, evolving, and subject to rapid technological change. From time to time, our competitors reduce the prices of their products and services (substantially in certain cases) to obtain new customers. Competitive pressures could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers and could require us to reduce the price of our products. Any such changes would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our customers’ requirements and the technology available to satisfy those requirements are continually changing. Therefore, we must be able to respond to these changes in order to remain competitive. Changes in our products may also make it more difficult for our sales force to sell effectively. In addition, changes in customers’ demand for the specific products, product features and services of other companies may result in our products becoming uncompetitive. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Furthermore, we could lose market share if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may seriously harm our business. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of products and services offered. We currently face competition with our products from systems designed in-house and by our competitors. We expect that these systems will continue to be a major source of competition for the foreseeable future. Our primary competitors for electronic CRM platforms are larger, more established companies such as Oracle. We also face competition from Chordiant Software, ATG, Amdocs, Consona, Talisma, eGain, RightNow, Instranet, Inquira and Pegasystems with respect to specific applications we offer. We may face increased competition upon introduction of new products or upgrades from competitors, or if we expand our product line through acquisition of complementary businesses or otherwise. As we have combined and enhanced our product lines to offer a more comprehensive software solution, we are increasingly competing with large, established providers of customer management and communication solutions as well as other competitors. Our combined product line may not be sufficient to successfully compete with the product offerings available from these companies, which could slow our growth and harm our business. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our industry. We may lose potential customers to competitors for various reasons, including the ability or willingness of competitors to offer lower prices and other incentives that we cannot match. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of recent industry consolidations, as well as anticipated future consolidations. We rely on marketing, technology and distribution relationships for the sale, installation and support of our products that may generally be terminated at any time, and if our current and future relationships are not successful, our growth might be limited. We rely on marketing and technology relationships with a variety of companies, including systems integrators and consulting firms that, among other things, generate leads for the sale of our products and provide our customers with implementation and ongoing support. If we cannot maintain successful marketing and technology relationships or if we fail to enter into such additional relationships, we could have difficulty expanding the sales of our products and our growth might be limited. A portion of our revenues depends on leads generated by systems integrators and their recommendations of our products. If systems integrators do not successfully market our products, our operating results will be materially harmed. In addition, many of our direct sales are to customers that will be relying on systems integrators to implement our products, and if systems integrators are not familiar with our technology or able to successfully implement our products, our operating results will be materially harmed. We expect to continue increasing our leverage of systems integrators as indirect sales channels and, if this strategy is successful, our dependence on the efforts of these third parties for revenue growth and customer service will remain high. Our reliance on third parties for these functions has reduced our control over such activities and reduced our ability to 11 Table of Contents perform such functions internally. If we come to rely primarily on a single systems integrator that subsequently terminates its relationship with us, becomes insolvent or is acquired by another company with which we have no relationship, or decides not to provide implementation services related to our products, we may not be able to internally generate sufficient revenues or increase the revenues generated by our other systems integrator relationships to offset the resulting lost revenues. Furthermore, systems integrators typically suggest our solution in combination with other products and services, some of which may compete with our solution. Systems integrators are not required to promote any fixed quantities of our products, are not bound to promote our products exclusively and may act as indirect sales channels for our competitors. If systems integrators choose not to promote our products or if they develop, market or recommend software applications that compete with our products, our business will be harmed. In addition to relying on systems integrators to recommend our products, we also rely on systems integrators and other third-party resellers to install and support our products. If the companies providing these services fail to implement our products successfully for our customers, the customer may be unable to complete implementation on the schedule that it had anticipated and we may have increased customer dissatisfaction or difficulty making future sales as a result. We might not be able to maintain our relationships with systems integrators and other indirect sales channel partners and enter into additional relationships that will provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. If we cannot maintain successful relationships with our indirect sales channel partners, we might have difficulty expanding the sales of our products and our growth could be limited. In addition, if such third parties do not provide the support our customers need, we may be required to hire subcontractors to provide these professional services. Increased use of subcontractors would harm our margins because it costs us more to hire subcontractors to perform these services than it would to provide the services ourselves. Because certain customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of a significant customer could cause a substantial decline in our revenues. One customer, IBM, who resells our software to its customers, accounted for 11% of our revenues in 2005, and less than 10% of our revenues in 2006 and 2007. Given that we derive a portion of our license and services revenues from IBM, the loss of this customer could cause a decrease in revenues and operating results. Furthermore, if we lose major customers, or if a contract is delayed or cancelled or we do not contract with new major customers, our revenues and net loss would be adversely affected. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenues in the past may not generate revenues in any future period, and our failure to obtain new significant customers or additional orders from existing customers could materially affect our operating results. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Enhancing our products and pursuing new product developments require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Changes in our workforce may adversely affect our ability to release products and product updates in a timely manner. We increased our employee headcount from 125 as of December 31, 2005 to 181 as of December 31, 2006 and to 225 as of December 31, 2007. We increased the size of our research and development department from 30 employees as of December 31, 2005 to 37 as of December 31, 2006 and to 53 as of December 31, 2007. In 12 Table of Contents addition, we reduced the level of our expenditures on outsourced development in 2005, and, in December 2005, we consolidated a significant portion of our research and development operations into one location in Menlo Park, California to optimize our research and development processes and decrease overall operating expenses. The changes in our research and development headcount and the reductions in our outsourced development capacity may limit our ability to release products within expected timeframes. For example, many of the employees who were terminated in headcount reductions possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operation, and which was not replaced in our more recent headcount increases. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. Personnel reductions may also subject us to the risk of litigation, which may adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and may cause us to incur significant expense. If our cost reduction and restructuring efforts are ineffective, our revenues and profitability may be hurt. In July 2007, we undertook various cost reduction and restructuring activities. The expense related to our reduction in work force was approximately $240,000 and expense related to ceasing use of one of our offices was approximately $8,000. In September 2007, we agreed with the landlord of one of the facilities included in our restructuring accrual to surrender the remaining term of the lease in exchange for a lump sum cash payment. As a result of this agreement, we recorded additional restructuring expense of approximately $319,000. In addition, the cost reduction and restructuring activities may not produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect or the efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. There can be no assurance that these efforts, as well as any potential future cost reduction and restructuring activities, will not adversely affect our business, operations or customer perceptions, or result in additional future charges. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel necessary to develop and grow our business. We rely on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. Given the concern over our long-term financial strength, we may not be successful in recruiting and integrating new personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, which could lead to increased turnover and reduce our ability to meet the needs of our current and future customers. Because our stock price declined drastically in recent years, and has not experienced any sustained recovery from the decline, stock-based compensation, including options to purchase our common stock, may have diminished the effectiveness as employee hiring and retention devices. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel, we could face disruptions to operations, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. If employee turnover increases, our ability to provide customer service and execute our strategy would be negatively affected. For example, our ability to increase revenues in the future depends considerably upon our success in training and retaining effective direct sales personnel and the success of our direct sales force. We might not be successful in these efforts. Our products and services require sophisticated sales efforts. We have experienced significant turnover in our sales force including domestic senior sales management, and may experience further turnover in future periods. It generally takes a new salesperson nine or more months to become productive, and they may not be able to generate new sales. Our business will be harmed if we fail to retain qualified sales personnel, or if newly hired salespeople fail to develop the necessary sales skills or develop these skills more slowly than anticipated. Additionally, we continue to need to recruit experienced developers as a result of our back-shoring initiative. If we fail to respond to changing customer preferences in our market, demand for our products and our ability to enhance our revenues will suffer. If we do not continue to improve our products and develop new products that keep pace with competitive product introductions and technological developments, satisfy diverse and rapidly evolving customer 13 Table of Contents requirements, and achieve market acceptance, we might be unable to attract new customers. Our industry is characterized by rapid and substantial developments in the technologies and products that enjoy widespread acceptance among prospective and existing customers. The development of proprietary technology and necessary service enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We might not be successful in marketing and supporting our products or developing and marketing other product enhancements and new products that respond to technological advances and market changes, on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, even if these products are developed and released, they might not achieve market acceptance. We have experienced delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the past and could experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation or implementation of our new releases could cause us to lose customers. Our failure to manage multiple technologies and technological change could reduce demand for our products. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards might impede market acceptance of our products. Our products are designed based upon currently prevailing technology to work on a variety of hardware and software platforms used by our customers. However, our software may not operate correctly on evolving versions of hardware and software platforms, programming languages, database environments and other systems that our customers use. If new technologies emerge that are incompatible with our products, or if competing products emerge that are based on new technologies or new industry standards and that perform better or cost less than our products, our key products could become obsolete and our existing and potential customers could seek alternatives to our products. We must constantly modify and improve our products to keep pace with changes made to these platforms and to database systems and other back-office applications and Internet-related applications. Furthermore, software adapters are necessary to integrate our products with other systems and data sources used by our customers. We must develop and update these adapters to reflect changes to these systems and data sources in order to maintain the functionality provided by our products. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements, introductions or modifications by vendors of operating systems, databases, CRM software, Web servers and other enterprise and Internet-based applications could delay our product development, increase our product development expense or cause customers to delay evaluation, purchase and deployment of our analytics products. If we fail to modify or improve our products in response to evolving industry standards, our products could rapidly become obsolete. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and enhance our existing products on a timely basis. The challenges of developing new products and enhancements require us to commit a substantial investment of resources to development, and we might not be able to develop or introduce new products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all, which could be exploited by our competitors and lead potential customers to choose alternative products. To be competitive, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements for companies with significant e-business customer interactions needs. Our ability to deliver competitive products may be negatively affected by the diversion of resources to development of our suite of products, and responding to changes in competitive products and in the demands of our customers. If we experience product delays in the future, we may face: • customer dissatisfaction; • cancellation of orders and license agreements; • negative publicity; • loss of revenues; and • slower market acceptance. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, delays in bringing new products or enhancements to market can result, for example, from loss of institutional knowledge through reductions in force, or the existence of defects in new products or their enhancements. Failure to license necessary third-party software incorporated in our products could cause delays or reductions in our sales. We license third-party software that we incorporate into our products. These licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology would be difficult to replace. The loss of any of these licenses could result in delays or reductions of our applications until we identify, license and integrate, or develop equivalent software. If we are required to enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technology, we could face higher royalty payments and our products may lose certain attributes or features. In the future, we might need to license other software to enhance our products and meet evolving customer needs. If we are unable to do this, we could experience reduced demand for our products. Defects in third-party products associated with our products could impair our products’ functionality and injure our reputation. The effective implementation of our products depends upon the successful operation of third-party products in conjunction with our products. Any undetected defects in these third-party products could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions or injure our reputation. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not remediated, could affect our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial reports, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. In connection with the preparation of this report, we identified and reported a material weakness in our internal controls over the period-end reporting process, including controls with respect to the review, supervision and monitoring of accounting operations for both domestic and international operations. As a result of this material weakness, we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. Our management, with the oversight of the Audit Committee, has begun to address this material weakness and is committed to effective remediation of these deficiencies as expeditiously as possible. We have effected personnel changes in our accounting and financial reporting functions. We will continue our efforts to establish or modify specific processes and controls to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the accuracy and integrity of accounting entries and account reconciliations and the appropriate review and approval thereof. Our material weakness will not be considered remediated until new internal controls are developed and implemented and are operational for a period of time and are tested. In September 2007, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. We expect that the system will improve the reliability of our financial reporting by reducing the need for manual processes, subjective assumptions, and management discretion; the opportunities for errors and omissions; and our reliance on manual controls to detect and correct accounting and financial reporting inaccuracies. Our management will continue to review and make necessary changes to the overall design of our internal control environment, as well as policies and procedures to improve the overall effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our remediation measures may not be successful in correcting the material weakness related to our period-end reporting process. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control will not be discovered in the future. In addition, internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to remediate the material weakness described above or to implement and maintain 15 Table of Contents effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our operating results, delay our completion of our consolidated financial statements and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit or review of our consolidated financial statements which could cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations with the SEC, or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements which could also cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations with the SEC. Deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCBB. Our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market (formerly known as the NASDAQ Stock Market) effective at the opening of business on October 17, 2005. From October 17, 2005 to December 4, 2006, our common stock was quoted on the “Pink Sheets” and as of December 5, 2006, our common stock has been quoted on Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). The OTCBB is generally considered less efficient than The NASDAQ Global Market. Quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB may reduce the liquidity of our securities, limit the number of investors who trade in our securities, result in a lower stock price and larger spread in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may become subject to the SEC rules that affect “penny stocks,” which are stocks below $5.00 per share that are not quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. These SEC rules would make it more difficult for brokers to find buyers for our securities and could lower the net sales prices that our stockholders are able to obtain. If our price of common stock remains low, we may not be able to raise equity capital. Our listing on the OTCBB or further declines in our stock price may greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and significantly increase the dilution to our current stockholders caused by any issuance of equity in financing or other transactions. The price at which we would issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock and a decline in the stock price could result in our need to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding. In addition, because our common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, we are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds will not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). Our stock price has been highly volatile and has experienced a significant decline, and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and we expect that it will continue to do so in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • variations in our actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; • the volatility inherent in stock prices within the emerging sector within which we conduct business; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales of substantial amounts of common stock issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. 16 Table of Contents In addition, stock markets in general have, and particularly The NASDAQ Global Market and the OTCBB have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology and computer software companies, particularly Internet-related companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Since becoming a publicly traded security listed on The NASDAQ Global Market in September 1999, our common stock has reached a sales price high of $1,698.10 per share and a sales price low of $0.65 per share. On October 17, 2005, our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market due to the failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 with the SEC. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCBB. The last reported sale price of our shares on February 29, 2008 was $1.42 per share. Our pending patents may never be issued and, even if issued, may provide little protection. Our success and ability to compete depend upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We currently have six issued U.S. patents, four of which expire in 2018 and two of which expire in 2020, and multiple U.S. patent applications pending relating to our software. None of our technology is patented outside of the United States. It is possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • any issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; • any issued patents could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; • current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents; and • effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which we do business. We rely upon trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, despite the precautions that we have taken: • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technologies; • current federal laws that prohibit software copying provide only limited protection from software “pirates,” and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries; • other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks; and • policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of this unauthorized use. Also, the laws of some other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology 17 Table of Contents from being exploited abroad, which could diminish international sales or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. We may become involved in litigation over proprietary rights, which could be costly and time consuming. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, and our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Some of our competitors in the market for customer communications software may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology that they may claim our technology infringes. Such competitors could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products and technology. Additionally, third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents upon which our current or future products or technology infringe and any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. For example, we were involved in litigation brought by Polaris IP, LLC against us and certain of our customers that claimed that certain of our products violate patents held by them. As we grow, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us increases. We may not be able to withstand any third-party claims and regardless of the merits of the claim, any intellectual property claims could be inherently uncertain, time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. Many of our software license agreements require us to indemnify our customers from any claim or finding of intellectual property infringement. We periodically receive notices from customers regarding patent license inquiries they have received which may or may not implicate our indemnity obligations. Any litigation, brought by others, or us could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and efforts. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement might cause product shipment delays, require us to develop alternative technology or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, which might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If an infringement claim is made against us, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringing or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. As a result, our business could be significantly harmed. We may face liability claims that could result in unexpected costs and damages to our reputation. Our licenses with customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages. In addition, our license agreements generally limit the amounts recoverable for damages to the amounts paid by the licensee to us for the product or service giving rise to the damages. However, some domestic and international jurisdictions may not enforce these contractual limitations on liability. We may be subject to claims based on errors in our software or mistakes in performing our services including claims relating to damages to our customers’ internal systems. A product liability claim could divert the attention of our management and key personnel, could be expensive to defend and could result in adverse settlements and judgments. We may face higher costs and lost sales if our software contains errors. We face the possibility of higher costs as a result of the complexity of our products and the potential for undetected errors. Due to the critical nature of many of our products and services, errors could be particularly problematic. In the past, we have discovered software errors in some of our products after their introduction. We only have a few “beta” customers that test new features and functionality of our software before we make these features and functionalities generally available to our customers. If we are not able to detect and correct errors in our products or releases before commencing commercial shipments, we could face: • loss of or delay in revenues expected from new products and an immediate and significant loss of market share; 18 Table of Contents • loss of existing customers that upgrade to new products and of new customers; • failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers; and • increased insurance costs. Any of the foregoing potential results of errors in our software could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our security could be breached, which could damage our reputation and deter customers from using our services. We must protect our computer systems and network from physical break-ins, security breaches, and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Computer break-ins could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network, which could adversely affect our ability to retain or attract customers, damage our reputation, and subject us to litigation. We have been in the past, and could be in the future, subject to denial of service, vandalism, and other attacks on our systems by Internet hackers. Although we intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent break-ins, damage and failures, these security measures may fail. Our insurance coverage in certain circumstances may be insufficient to cover losses that may result from such events. We have significant international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets. A substantial proportion of our revenues are generated from sales outside North America, exposing us to additional financial and operational risks. Sales outside North America represented 25%, 32% and 30% of our total revenues for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have established offices in the United States, Europe and Japan. Sales outside North America could increase as a percentage of total revenues as we attempt to expand our international operations. In addition to the additional costs and uncertainties of being subject to international laws and regulations, international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, as well as additional support personnel. To the extent our international operations grow, we will also need to, among other things, expand our international sales channel management and support organizations and develop relationships with international service providers and additional distributors and systems integrators. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including: • political, social and economic instability, including conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; • adverse changes in tariffs, duties, price controls and other protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • longer collection periods and difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • exposure to different legal standards and burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • reduced protection for our intellectual property in some countries; • increases in tax rates; • greater seasonal fluctuations in business activity; 19 Table of Contents • expenses associated with localizing products for foreign countries, including translation into foreign languages; • difficulty and cost of staffing and managing international operations; and • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Any of these factors may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may suffer foreign exchange rate losses. Our international revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency. Therefore, a weakening of the U.S. dollar to other currencies could make our products more costly to sell in foreign markets and could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. We have not yet experienced, but may in the future experience, significant foreign currency transaction losses, especially because we generally do not engage in currency hedging. To the extent the international component of our revenues grows, our results of operations will become more sensitive to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. If we acquire companies, products, or technologies, we may face risks associated with those acquisitions. In June 2007, we acquired all of the membership interests of eVergance. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the eVergance acquisition or any other acquisition or investment. For example, since our inception, we have recorded $2.7 billion of impairment charges for the cost of goodwill obtained from acquisitions. If we acquire another company, we will likely face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including, among other things, difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies and services of the acquired company, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, and the failure of the acquired businesses, products or technologies to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies that we may acquire, our business could be harmed. Also, acquisitions, including the acquisition of eVergance, can expose us to liabilities and risks facing the company we acquire, such as lawsuits or claims against us that are unknown at the time of the acquisition. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting will result in additional costs. Our continuing preparation for and implementation of various corporate governance reforms and enhanced disclosure laws and regulations adopted in recent years requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We are subject to accounting disclosures required by laws and regulations adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). In particular, we are required to provide a report on our internal control over financial reporting and an auditors’ attestation with respect to our internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. Any failure to timely prepare for and implement the reforms required by new laws and regulations could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, the Board of Directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of common stock. Although the ability to issue this preferred stock provides us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, it can also be used to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. Similarly, we have established a stockholder rights plan that is intended to protect our ability to utilize our net operating losses and which would also make it difficult for a third party to acquire a significant number of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and equity compensation plans include provisions that may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest. Furthermore, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year. In addition, directors are only removable by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all classes of voting stock. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of us. Risks Related to Our Industry Future regulation of the Internet may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services and increased costs of doing business. State, federal and foreign regulators could adopt laws and regulations that impose additional burdens on companies that conduct business online. These laws and regulations could discourage communication by e-mail or other web-based communications, particularly targeted e-mail of the type facilitated by our products, which could reduce demand for our products and services. The growth and development of the market for online services may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws or laws that may inhibit the use of Internet-based communications or the information contained in these communications. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the expansion of the Internet. A decline in the growth of the Internet, particularly as it relates to online communication, could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise harm our business. Any new legislation or regulations, application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could increase our costs and harm our growth. The imposition of sales and other taxes on products sold by our customers over the Internet could have a negative effect on online commerce and the demand for our products and services. The imposition of new sales or other taxes could limit the growth of Internet commerce generally and, as a result, the demand for our products and services. Federal legislation that limits the imposition of state and local taxes on Internet-related sales will expire on November 1, 2014. Congress may choose to modify this legislation or to allow it to expire, in which case state and local governments would be free to impose taxes on electronically purchased goods. We believe that most companies that sell products over the Internet do not currently collect sales or other taxes on shipments of their products into states or foreign countries where they are not physically present. However, one or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in e-commerce within their jurisdiction. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that companies that engage in e-commerce within their jurisdiction should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of their products over the Internet, even though not physically in the state or country, could indirectly reduce demand for our products. 21 Table of Contents Privacy concerns relating to the Internet are increasing, which could result in legislation that negatively affects our business in reduced sales of our products. Businesses using our products capture information regarding their customers when those customers contact them on-line with customer service inquiries. Privacy concerns could cause visitors to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our software products most effectively. More importantly, even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting certain websites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. If consumer privacy concerns are not adequately resolved, our business could be harmed. Government regulation that limits our customers’ use of this information could reduce the demand for our products. A number of jurisdictions have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws that restrict the use of customer information from Internet applications. The European Union has required that its member states adopt legislation that imposes restrictions on the collection and use of personal data, and that limits the transfer of personally identifiable data to countries that do not impose equivalent restrictions. In the United States, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act was enacted in October 1998. This legislation directs the Federal Trade Commission to regulate the collection of data from children on commercial websites. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission has investigated the privacy practices of businesses that collect information on the Internet. These and other privacy-related initiatives could reduce demand for some of the Internet applications with which our products operate, and could restrict the use of these products in some e-commerce applications. This could, in turn, reduce demand for these products. The success of our products depends on the continued growth and acceptance of the Internet as a business and communications tool, and the related expansion of the Internet infrastructure. The future success of our products depends upon the continued and widespread adoption of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service, or increased government regulation and taxation of Internet activity. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, our business growth may be adversely affected. General economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our products, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers consist of large and small companies in nearly all industry sectors and geographies. Potential new clients or existing clients could defer purchases of our products because of unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as rising interest rates, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, industry or national economic downturns, industry purchasing patterns, and other factors. Our ability to grow revenues may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 