Item 1A. Risk Factors. The rates we charge our customers are subject to regulation. If we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to cover our investments in utility plant and equipment and projected expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the rates we charge our customers, which are subject to approval by the PPUC. We file rate increase requests with the PPUC, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and equipment and projected expenses. Any rate increase or adjustment must first be justified through documented evidence and testimony. The PPUC determines whether the investments and expenses are recoverable, the length in time over which such costs are recoverable, or, because of changes in circumstances, whether a remaining balance of deferred investments and expenses is no longer recoverable in rates charged to customers. Once a rate increase application is filed with the PPUC, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly. The timing of our rate increase requests are therefore dependent upon the estimated cost of the administrative process in relation to the investments and expenses that we hope to recover through the rate increase. We can provide no assurances that future requests will be approved by the PPUC; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we sought the rate increase. If we are unable to obtain PPUC approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to cover our investments in utility plant and equipment and projected expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to federal, state and local regulation that may impose costly limitations and restrictions on the way we do business. Various federal, state and local authorities regulate many aspects of our business. Among the most important of these regulations are those relating to the quality of water we supply our customers and water allocation rights. Government authorities continually review these regulations, particularly the drinking water quality regulations, and may propose new or more restrictive requirements in the future. We are required to perform water quality tests that are monitored by the PPUC, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, or DEP, for the detection of certain chemicals and compounds in our water. If new or more restrictive limitations on permissible levels of substances and contaminants in our water are imposed, we may not be able to adequately predict the costs necessary to meet regulatory standards. If we are unable to recover the cost of implementing new water treatment procedures in response to more restrictive water quality regulations through our rates that we charge our customers, or if we fail to comply with such regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to water allocation regulations that control the amount of water that we can draw from water sources. The Susquehanna River Basin Commission, or SRBC, and DEP regulate the amount of water withdrawn from streams in the watershed for water supply purposes to assure that sufficient quantities are available to meet our needs and the needs of other regulated users. In addition, government drought restrictions could cause the SRBC or DEP to temporarily reduce the amount of our allocations. If new or more restrictive water allocation regulations are implemented or our allocations are reduced due to weather conditions, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to supply the demands of our customers, and in turn, on our revenues and results of operations. Page 3 Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect demand for our water service and our revenues. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with cooling systems, swimming pools, irrigation systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature and rainfall levels. If temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than expected, or there is more rainfall than expected, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. Weather conditions and overuse may interfere with our sources of water, demand for water services, and our ability to supply water to our customers. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers and to continue our expansion efforts. Unexpected conditions may interfere with our water supply sources. Drought and overuse may limit the availability of surface water. These factors might adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Additionally, cool and wet weather, as well as drought restrictions and our customers’ conservation efforts, may reduce consumption demands, also adversely affecting our revenue and earnings. Furthermore, freezing weather may also contribute to water transmission interruptions caused by pipe and main breakage. If we experience an interruption in our water supply, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current concentration of our business in central and southern Pennsylvania makes us susceptible to adverse developments in local economic and demographic conditions. Our service territory presently includes 39 municipalities within York County, Pennsylvania and seven municipalities within Adams County, Pennsylvania. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local economic and demographic conditions in the area. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, any such change would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to water utility companies that do not have such a geographic concentration. Contamination of our water supply may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our revenues. Our water supply is subject to contamination from the migration of naturally-occurring substances in groundwater and surface systems and pollution resulting from man-made sources. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source through our interconnected transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, may have an adverse effect on our revenues. The necessity for increased security has and may continue to result in increased operating costs. In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the ensuing threats to the nation’s health and security, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. We are not aware of any specific threats to our facilities, operations or supplies. However, it is possible that we would not be in a position to control the outcome of such events should they occur. Page 4 We depend on the availability of capital for expansion, construction and maintenance. Our ability to continue our expansion efforts and fund our construction and maintenance program depends on the availability of adequate capital. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future or that the cost of capital will not be too high for future expansion and construction. In addition, approval from the PPUC must be obtained prior to our sale and issuance of securities. If we are unable to obtain approval from the PPUC on these matters, or to obtain approval in a timely manner, it may affect our ability to effect transactions that are beneficial to us or our shareholders. A single transaction may itself not be profitable but might still be necessary to continue providing service or to grow the business. We may face competition from other water suppliers that may hinder our growth and reduce our profitability. We face competition from other water suppliers for acquisitions, which may limit our growth opportunities. Furthermore, even after we have been the successful bidder in an acquisition, competing water suppliers may challenge our application for extending our franchise territory to cover the target company’s market. Finally, third parties either supplying water on a contract basis to municipalities or entering into agreements to operate municipal water systems might adversely affect our business by winning contracts that may be beneficial to us. If we are unable to compete successfully with other water suppliers for these acquisitions, franchise territories and contracts, it may impede our expansion goals and adversely affect our profitability. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water systems. Any pending or future acquisitions we decide to undertake will involve risks. The acquisition and integration of water systems is an important element in our growth strategy. This strategy depends on identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and reaching mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could require us to incur significant costs. Further, acquisitions may result in dilution for the owners of our common stock, our incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and fluctuations in quarterly results. In addition, the businesses and other assets we acquire may not achieve the financial results that we expect, which could adversely affect our profitability. We have restrictions on our dividends. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. The terms of our debt instruments impose conditions on our ability to pay dividends. We have paid dividends on our common stock each year since our inception in 1816 and have increased the amount of dividends paid each year since 1997. Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and the amount of those dividends. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our cash generated from operations, and, if necessary, borrowings under our existing credit facilities will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are not as favorable to us. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default under these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Page 5 We depend significantly on the services of the members of our senior management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior management team. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management or are unable to hire and retain experienced management personnel, our operating results could suffer. There is a limited trading market for our common stock; you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than many other companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Because of the limited volume of trading in our common stock, a sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the open market could cause our stock price to decline. The failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, either of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our water system includes two impounding dams. While the Company maintains robust dam maintenance and inspection programs, a failure of the dams could result in injuries and damage to residential and/or commercial property downstream for which we may be responsible, in whole or in part. The failure of a dam could also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We carry liability insurance on our dams, however, our limits may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred due to the failure of one of our dams. The estimated costs to maintain and upgrade our dams is included in our capital budget. Although such costs have previously been recoverable in rates, there is no guarantee that these costs will continue to be recoverable and in what magnitude they will be recoverable. We are subject to market and interest rate risk on our $12,000,000 variable rate PEDFA Series A bond issue. We are subject to interest rate risk in conjunction with our $12,000,000 variable interest rate debt issue. This exposure, however, has been hedged with an interest rate swap. This hedge will protect the Company from the risk of changes in the benchmark interest rates, but does not protect the Company’s exposure to the changes in the difference between its own variable funding rate and the benchmark rate. A breakdown of the historical relationships between the Company’s cost of funds and the benchmark rate underlying the interest rate swap could result in higher interest rates adversely affecting our financial results. The holders of the $12,000,000 variable rate PEDFA Series A Bonds may tender their bonds at any time. When the bonds are tendered, they are subject to an annual remarketing agreement, pursuant to which a remarketing agent attempts to remarket the tendered bonds pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. In order to keep variable interest rates down and to enhance the marketability of the Series A Bonds, the Company entered into a Reimbursement, Credit and Security Agreement with PNC Bank, National Association (“the bank”) dated as of May 1, 2008. This agreement provides for a three-year direct pay letter of credit issued by the bank to the trustee for the Series A Bonds. The bank is responsible for providing the trustee with funds for the timely payment of the principal and interest on the Series A Bonds and for the purchase price of the Series A Bonds that have been tendered or deemed tendered for purchase and have not been remarketed. If the bank is unable to meet its obligations, the Company would be required to buy any bonds which had been tendered. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved staff comments. Page 6 Item 