risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. We do not assume any obligation and do not intend to update any forward-looking statements except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should also be aware that while the Company does communicate with securities analysts, from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws and investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. In reviewing any agreements incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, please remember such agreements are included to provide information regarding the terms of such agreements and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company. The agreements may contain representations and warranties by the Company, which should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties should those statements prove to be inaccurate. The representations and warranties were made only as of the date of the relevant agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in such agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties alone may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc. (referred to as the “Company”, “Dick’s” or in the first person notations “we”, “us” and “our” unless specified otherwise) is an authentic full-line sporting goods retailer offering a broad assortment of brand name sporting goods equipment, apparel, and footwear in a specialty store environment. We offer a broad selection of high-quality, competitively-priced brand name sporting goods equipment, apparel and footwear that enhances our customers’ performance and enjoyment of their sports activities. Dick’s was founded in 1948 when Richard “Dick” Stack, the father of Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, opened his original bait and tackle store in Binghamton, New York. Edward W. Stack joined his father’s business full-time in 1977, and in 1984, became President and Chief Executive Officer of the then two store chain. 4 Table of Contents We were incorporated in 1948 in New York under the name Dick’s Clothing and Sporting Goods, Inc. In November 1997, we reincorporated as a Delaware corporation, and in April 1999 we changed our name to Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc. Our executive office is located at 345 Court Street, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania 15108 and our phone number is (724) 273-3400. Our website is located at www.DicksSportingGoods.com. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report. We include on our website, free of charge, copies of our prior annual and quarterly reports filed on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Dick’s, Dick’s Sporting Goods, DicksSportingGoods.com, Galyan’s Trading Company, Inc., Golf Galaxy, Chick’s Sporting Goods, Northeast Outfitters, PowerBolt, Fitness Gear, Ativa, Maxfli, Walter Hagen, DBX, Acuity, Field & Stream (footwear only), Tailgate Gear and Quest are our primary trademarks. Each trademark, trade name or service mark of any other company appearing in this annual report belongs to its holder. As of January 29, 2011, the Company operated 444 Dick’s Sporting Goods stores in 42 states and 81 Golf Galaxy stores in 30 states. Additionally, the Company operates e-commerce operations for both Dick’s and Golf Galaxy. Business Strategy The key elements of our business strategy are: Authentic Sporting Goods Retailer. Our history and core foundation is as a retailer of high quality authentic athletic equipment, apparel and footwear, intended to enhance our customers’ performance and enjoyment of athletic pursuits, rather than focusing our merchandise selection on the latest fashion trend or style. We believe our customers seek genuine, deep product offerings, and ultimately this merchandising approach positions us with advantages in the market, which we believe will continue to benefit from new product offerings with enhanced technological features. Competitive Pricing. We position ourselves to be competitive in price, but we do not attempt to be a price leader. We maintain a policy of matching our competitors’ advertised prices. If a customer finds a competitor with a lower price on an item, we will match the lower price. We seek to offer value to our customers and develop and maintain a reputation as a provider of value at each price point. Broad Assortment of Brand Name Merchandise. We carry a wide variety of well-known brands, including Nike, The North Face, Columbia, adidas, TaylorMade, Callaway and Under Armour, as well as private brand products on an exclusive basis under names such as Slazenger, Maxfli, Field and Stream, adidas baseball, Fitness Gear, Walter Hagen, Nishiki, Umbro and Reebok. The breadth of our product selections in each category of sporting goods offers our customers a wide range of price points and enables us to address the needs of sporting goods consumers, from the beginner to the sport enthusiast. Expertise and Service. We enhance our customers’ shopping experience by providing knowledgeable and trained customer service professionals and value added services. For example, we were the first full-line sporting goods retailer to have active members of the Professional Golfers’ Association of America (“PGA”) and Ladies Professional Golf Association (“LPGA”) working in our stores. As of January 29, 2011, we employed 502 PGA and LPGA professionals in our Dick’s golf departments and our Golf Galaxy stores. As of January 29, 2011, we also employed 526 bike mechanics to sell and service bicycles and 399 certified fitness trainers who provide advice on the best fitness equipment for our customers. All of our stores also provide support services such as golf club grip replacement, bicycle repair and maintenance and home delivery and assembly of fitness equipment. Interactive “Store-Within-A-Store”. Our Dick’s Sporting Goods stores typically contain five stand-alone specialty stores. We seek to create a distinct look and feel for each specialty department to heighten the customer’s interest in the products offered. A typical store has the following in-store specialty shops: (i) the Golf Pro Shop, which carries a full range of products featuring major golf suppliers such as TaylorMade, Callaway, Titleist, Cobra, FootJoy and Nike Golf as well as our exclusive brands, Walter Hagen, Maxfli and Slazenger. The Golf Pro Shop features a putting green, golf simulators and launch monitors as well as video monitors featuring golf tournaments and instruction on the Golf Channel or other sources; (ii) the Footwear Center, featuring hardwood floors, a track for testing athletic shoes and a bank of video monitors playing sporting events; (iii) the Fitness Center, providing an extensive selection of equipment for today’s most popular fitness activities, including a dedicated cycle shop designed to sell and service bikes, complete with a mechanics’ work area and equipment on the sales floor; (iv) the Lodge for the hunting and fishing outdoorsman, designed to have the look of an authentic bait and tackle shop; and 5 Table of Contents (v) Team Sports, a seasonal sports area displaying sports equipment and athletic apparel associated with specific seasonal sports, such as football and baseball. Our stores provide interactive opportunities by allowing customers to test golf clubs in our indoor driving range, shoot bows in our archery range, or run on our footwear track. Our Golf Galaxy stores are designed to deliver our “Everything for the Game” strategy and create an exciting and interactive shopping environment that highlights our extensive product assortments and value-added services. Interactive areas, such as an artificial bent grass putting green and golf simulators, add to the entertainment value of the shopping experience. Our store design and equipment displays encourage customers to test our products before making a purchase decision. Our highly visible service areas reinforce the expertise available from our staff. Exclusive Brand Offerings. Our exclusive brands and styles offer exceptional value and quality to our customers at each price point and obtain higher gross margins than we obtain on sales of comparable products. Our team designs and develops these brands to offer our customers differentiated assortments from our competitors. We have invested in a development and procurement staff that continually sources products targeted specifically to the needs of a Dick’s Sporting Goods and Golf Galaxy consumer. We offer products on an exclusive basis under various brands such as Maxfli, Field and Stream, Slazenger, Reebok, adidas baseball, Umbro, Walter Hagen, Fitness Gear, DBX, Tailgate Gear, Quest and Nishiki. Merchandising We offer a full range of sporting goods and active apparel at each price point in order to appeal to the beginner, intermediate and enthusiast sports consumer. The merchandise we carry includes one or more of the leading manufacturers in each category. Our objective is not only to carry leading brands, but a full range of products within each brand, including the premium items for the sports enthusiast. As beginners and intermediates move to higher levels in their sports, we expect to be prepared to meet their needs. We believe that the range of the merchandise we offer, particularly for the enthusiast sports consumer, distinguishes us from other large format sporting goods stores. We also believe that the range of merchandise we offer allows us to compete effectively against all of our competitors, from traditional independent sporting goods stores and specialty shops to other large format sporting goods stores and mass merchant discount retailers. The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of sales attributable to the apparel, footwear and hardlines categories for the periods presented: Fiscal Year Merchandise Category 2010 2009 2008 Apparel 28 % 28 % 30 % Footwear 18 % 16 % 16 % Hardlines (1) 54 % 56 % 54 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Includes items such as sporting goods equipment, fitness equipment, hunting and fishing gear and golf equipment. Apparel This category consists of athletic apparel, outerwear and sportswear designed for a broad range of activities and performance levels as well as apparel designed and fabricated for specific sports in men’s, women’s and children’s assortments. Technical and performance specific apparel includes offerings for sports such as golf, tennis, running, fitness, soccer, baseball, football, hockey, swimming, cycling and licensed products. Basic sportswear includes T-shirts, shorts, sweat suits and warm-up suits. Footwear This category consists of athletic shoes for running, walking, tennis, fitness and cross training, basketball and hiking. In addition, this category also includes specialty footwear, including casual footwear and a complete line of cleated shoes for baseball, football, soccer and lacrosse. Other important product lines within the footwear category include boots, socks and accessories. 6 Table of Contents Hardlines: Exercise and Team Sports. This category consists of (i) fitness equipment including treadmills, elliptical trainers, stationary bicycles, home gyms, free weights and weight benches, (ii) equipment and accessories for team sports such as football, baseball, softball, basketball, hockey, soccer, bowling and lacrosse and (iii) family recreation offerings, including lawn games and table games such as ping-pong, foosball and air hockey. Outdoor Recreation. This category consists of equipment for hunting, fishing, camping and water sports. Hunting products include rifles, shotguns, ammunition, global positioning systems, hunting apparel, optics including binoculars and scopes, knives and cutlery, archery equipment and accessories. Fishing gear includes rods, reels, tackle and accessories. Camping equipment includes tents, sleeping bags and other accessories. Equipment offerings for marine and water sports include navigational electronics, water skis, rafts, kayaks, canoes and accessories. Golf. This category consists of golf clubs and club sets, bags, balls, teaching aids and accessories in addition to a complete range of expert golf services, including custom club fitting, club repair, grip installation and shaft installation for drivers, irons and putters. Cycling. Our Cycle Shop, which is designed to sell and service bicycles, complete with a mechanics’ work area, features a broad selection of BMX, all-terrain, freestyle and touring bicycles, scooters and skateboards. In addition, we also offer a full range of cycling accessories including helmets, bicycle carrier racks, gloves, water bottles and repair and maintenance parts. Our Stores Each of our Dick’s stores typically contains five stand-alone specialty stores. We believe our “store-within-a-store” concept creates a unique shopping environment by combining the convenience, broad assortment and competitive prices of large format stores with the brand names, deep product selection and customer service of a specialty store. Our Golf Galaxy stores are designed to deliver our “Everything for the Game” strategy and create an exciting and interactive shopping environment that highlights our extensive product assortments and value-added services. Store Design We design our Dick’s stores to create an exciting shopping environment with distinct departments that can stand on their own as authentic sporting goods specialty shops. Our primary prototype store is a single-level store of approximately 50,000 square feet. Signs and banners are located throughout the store allowing customers to quickly locate the various departments. A wide aisle through the middle of the store displays seasonal or special-buy merchandise. Video monitors throughout the store provide a sense of entertainment with videos of championship games, instructional sessions or live sports events. We also have a prototype two-level store of approximately 75,000 square feet for those trade areas that have sufficient in-profile customers to support it. Our Golf Galaxy store model is based on a prototype store, which generally ranges from 13,000 to 18,000 of selling square feet. The following table summarizes store openings and closings for 2010 and 2009: Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2009 Chick’s Golf Golf Sporting Dick’s Galaxy Total Dick’s Galaxy Goods Total Beginning stores 419 91 510 384 89 14 487 New: Single-level stores 26 — 26 21 — — 21 Two-level stores — — — 3 — — 3 Golf Galaxy stores — 2 2 — 1 — 1 Total new stores 26 2 28 24 1 — 25 Converted stores — — — 12 1 (12 ) 1 Closed stores (1 ) (12 ) (13 ) (1 ) — (2 ) (3 ) Ending stores 444 81 525 419 91 — 510 Remodeled stores 12 — 12 — — — — Relocated stores 2 — 2 1 — — 1 7 Table of Contents In most of our Dick’s stores, approximately 83% of store space is used for selling and approximately 17% is used for backroom storage of merchandise, receiving and office space. We seek to encourage cross-selling and impulse buying through the layout of our departments. We provide a bright, open shopping environment through the use of glass, lights and lower shelving that enable customers to see the array of merchandise offered throughout our stores. We avoid the warehouse store look featured by some of our large format competitors. Our Dick’s stores are typically open seven days a week, generally from 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 9:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Sunday. Our Golf Galaxy stores are typically open seven days a week, generally from 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, and 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Sunday. New Store Openings Future openings will depend upon several factors, including but not limited to general economic conditions, consumer confidence in the economy, unemployment trends, interest rates and inflation, the availability of retail store sites on acceptable terms, real estate prices and the availability of adequate capital. Because our new store openings depend on many factors, they are subject to risks and uncertainties as described below within Item 1A. “Risks Factors”. Store Associates We strive to complement our merchandise selection and innovative store design with superior customer service. We actively recruit sports enthusiasts to serve as sales associates because we believe that they are more knowledgeable about the products they sell. For example, we currently employ PGA and LPGA golf professionals to work in our Dick’s golf departments and Golf Galaxy stores, bike mechanics to sell and service bicycles and certified fitness trainers to provide advice on the best fitness equipment for the individual. We believe that our associates’ enthusiasm and ability to demonstrate and explain the advantages of the products lead to increased sales. We believe our prompt, knowledgeable and enthusiastic service fosters the confidence and loyalty of our customers and differentiates us from other large format sporting goods stores. We emphasize product knowledge at both the hiring and training stages. We hire most of our sales associates for a specific department or category. As part of our interview process, we test each prospective sales associate for knowledge specific to the department or category in which he or she is to work. We train new sales associates through a self-study and testing program that we have developed for each of our categories. We also measure customers’ satisfaction with their most recent purchase experience through an online satisfaction survey. Survey invitations are delivered at the point-of-sale via cash register receipts that direct customers to a data collection website. These results allow identification of improvement opportunities at various levels of the store hierarchy and reinforce the impact associates have on the customer experience. We typically staff our Dick’s stores with a store manager, two sales managers, a sales support manager, seven sales leaders and approximately 50 full-time and part-time sales associates for a single-level store and proportionately more supervisory roles and associates for a two-level store, depending on store volume and time of year. The operations of each store are supervised by one of 45 district managers, each of whom reports to one of six regional vice-presidents of store operations who are located in the field. The regional vice presidents report to the vice president of field operations, who in turn reports directly to the senior vice president of operations. Support Services We believe that we further differentiate our stores from other large format sporting goods stores by offering support services for the products we sell. We offer a complete range of expert golf services, including custom club fitting, club repair, grip installation and shaft installation for drivers, irons and putters. We also have certified club technicians on hand. We offer private lessons with our PGA and LPGA professionals in our Golf Galaxy Stores. Our prototype Dick’s stores feature bicycle maintenance and repair stations on the sales floor, allowing our bicycle mechanics to service bicycles in addition to assisting customers. We believe that these maintenance and repair stations are one of our most effective selling tools by enhancing the credibility of our specialty store concept and giving assurance to our customers that we can repair and tune the bicycles they purchase. At our Dick’s stores, we also string tennis racquets and lacrosse sticks, sharpen ice skates, provide home delivery and assembly of fitness equipment, provide scope mounting and bore sighting services, cut arrows, sell hunting and fishing licenses and fill CO2 tanks for paintball. 8 Table of Contents Site Selection and Store Locations We select geographic markets and store sites on the basis of demographic information, quality and nature of neighboring tenants, store visibility and accessibility. Key demographics include population density, household income, age and average number of occupants per household. In addition to these demographics, golf participation rates are considered in selecting sites for our Golf Galaxy stores. We seek to locate our Dick’s stores in primary retail centers with an emphasis on co-tenants including major discount retailers such as Wal-Mart or Target, or specialty retailers from other categories such as Best Buy, Lowe’s or Staples. We seek to balance our expansion of Dick’s stores between new and existing markets. In our existing markets, we add stores as necessary to cover appropriate market areas. By clustering stores, we seek to take advantage of economies of scale in advertising, promotion, distribution and supervisory costs. We seek to locate stores within separate trade areas within each metropolitan area, in order to establish long-term market penetration. We generally seek to expand in geographically contiguous areas to build on our experience in the same or nearby regions. We believe that local knowledge is an important part of success. In considering new regions, we locate our stores in areas we believe are underserved. In addition to larger metropolitan areas, we also target smaller population centers in which we locate single stores, generally in regional shopping centers with a wide regional draw. Marketing and Advertising Our marketing program for Dick’s stores is designed to promote our selection of brand name products at competitive prices. The program is centered on newspaper advertising supplemented by direct mail and seasonal use of local and national television and radio. Our advertising strategy is focused on national television and other media campaigns, weekly newspaper advertising utilizing multi-page color inserts and standard run of press advertising with an emphasis on key shopping periods such as the Christmas season, Father’s Day, back-to-school and on specific sales and promotional events including our annual Golf-a-thon sale. We cluster stores in major markets to enable us to employ our advertising strategy on a cost-effective basis through the use of newspaper, local and national television and radio advertising. We advertise in major metropolitan newspapers as well as in regional newspapers circulated in areas surrounding our store locations. Our newspaper advertising typically consists of weekly promotional advertisements with full-color inserts. Our television advertising is generally concentrated during a promotional event or key shopping period. At other times, we advertise on television and radio nationally to highlight seasonal sports initiatives. Radio advertising is used primarily to publicize specific promotions in conjunction with newspaper advertising or to announce a public relations promotion or grand opening. Vendor payments under cooperative advertising arrangements with us, as well as vendor participation in sponsoring sporting events and programs, have contributed to our advertising leverage. Our advertising is designed to create an “event” in the stores and to drive customer traffic with advertisements promoting a wide variety of merchandise values appropriate for the respective holiday or event. We also sponsor professional sports teams, tournaments and amateur competitive events in an effort to align ourselves with both the serious sports enthusiast and the community in general. Our Dick’s Sporting Goods “ScoreCard® Rewards” loyalty program is a free program that allows shoppers to earn rewards while making purchases at our stores. Once registered, a member earns points for shopping and will be awarded a $10 reward certificate for every 300 points they earn. Program members also receive exclusive deals, new product alerts and insider access via our direct marketing programs. Customers receive direct marketing programs based upon their sports preferences and past purchase history. “Game On” is our special member-only magazine sent to our most loyal shoppers at the beginning of each season. Our “Advantage Club” customer loyalty program at our Golf Galaxy stores is designed to create a direct relationship with our customers using advance notice of special in-store events, exclusive offers and information. Membership in our Advantage Club is free. We target our direct mail catalogs and e-mail offers to this group of customers who generate above average response rates, thus enhancing our marketing efficiency. Members earn points for shopping and will be awarded a $10 reward certificate for every 300 points they earn. 9 Table of Contents Information Systems Our core merchandising, allocation and replenishment systems are from JDA. The data generated by these systems are consolidated into a comprehensive data warehouse application that was purpose-built to provide near real-time performance information across a broad spectrum of critical metrics for our business. All functions of the business have access to highly accurate and consistent information related to the various components of sales, inventory, and margin from department to SKU level. Our stores are on-line to the corporate data center and utilize high-speed data communications to update sales data continuously throughout the business day while also enabling our associates and customers to access the internet for additional sales opportunities on the Company’s websites via POS registers, associate ordering system (“AOS”) kiosks and special services computers. We utilize a highly optimized and customized version of the Advanced Store POS application software from NCR in both our Dick’s and Golf Galaxy stores. The enterprise data center located within our corporate headquarters, which we refer to as the Store Support Center (“SSC”), is equipped with mainframe and mid-range computers and storage systems from IBM, integrated with voice and data networking communication equipment from Cisco. This facility has been built to support the future growth of the Company. Our end-to-end supply chain management suite of software applications is from Manhattan Associates and operates our three distribution centers from the central computing complex in our SSC. The Company’s Financial and Human Resource Management systems are PeopleSoft applications provided by Oracle. All third party applications are integrated and enhanced using state-of-the-art software tools and techniques developed internally. Purchasing and Distribution In addition to merchandise procurement, our buying staff is also responsible for determining initial pricing and product marketing plans and working with our allocation and replenishment groups to establish stock levels and product mix. Our buying staff also has frequent communications with our store operations personnel to monitor shifts in consumer tastes and market trends. Our planning, replenishment, allocation, and merchandise control groups are responsible for merchandise allocation, inventory control and automated replenishment systems. These groups act as the central processing intermediary between our buying staff and our stores and also coordinate the inventory levels necessary for each advertising promotion with our buying staff and our advertising department, tracking the effectiveness of each advertisement to allow our buying staff and our advertising department to determine the relative success of each promotional program. In addition, these groups’ also manage the implementation of price changes, creation of vendor purchase orders and determination of inventory levels for each store. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,200 vendors, and we have no long-term purchase commitments. During fiscal 2010, Nike, our largest vendor, represented approximately 14% of our merchandise purchases. No other vendor represented 10% or more of our fiscal 2010 merchandise purchases. We do not have long-term purchase contracts with any of our vendors and all of our purchases from vendors are done on a short-term purchase order basis. We operate three regional distribution centers: a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 657,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, and a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania. Vendors directly ship floor ready merchandise to these distribution centers, where it is processed as necessary. The merchandise arriving at our distribution centers is allocated directly to our stores or to temporary storage at our distribution centers. Our distribution centers are responsible for consolidating damaged or defective merchandise from our stores that is being returned to vendors. We have contracted with common carriers to deliver merchandise from all of our distribution centers to our stores. Competition The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. The retail sporting goods industry comprises five principal categories: § Large Format Sporting Goods Stores and Chains; § Traditional Sporting Goods Stores and Chains; § Specialty Stores; § Mass Merchants; and § Catalog and Internet-Based Retailers. 10 Table of Contents Large Format Sporting Goods Stores The large format stores generally range from 20,000 to 100,000 square feet and offer a broad selection of sporting goods merchandise. We believe that our strong performance with the large format store in recent years is due in part to our unique approach in blending the best attributes of a large format store with the best attributes of a specialty shop. Traditional Sporting Goods Stores These stores generally range from 5,000 to 20,000 square feet and are frequently located in regional malls and multi-store shopping centers. They typically carry a varied assortment of merchandise. Compared to our stores, they offer a more limited product assortment. We believe these stores do not cater to the sports enthusiast. Specialty Stores These stores generally range from 2,000 to 20,000 square feet and typically focus on a specific category, such as athletic footwear, or an activity, such as golf or skiing. Certain specialty stores that focus on a group of related activities can have significantly larger square footage footprints and be designed as destination stores. In addition, several sporting goods brands sell their products direct to consumers through their own retail stores. While specialty stores may offer a deep selection of products within their specialty, they lack the wide range of products that we offer. We believe prices at these stores typically tend to be higher than prices at the large format sporting goods stores and traditional sporting goods stores. Mass Merchants These stores generally range from 50,000 to over 200,000 square feet and are primarily located in shopping centers, freestanding sites or regional malls. Sporting goods merchandise and apparel represent a small portion of the total merchandise in these stores and the selection is often more limited than in other sporting goods retailers. We believe that this limited selection, particularly with well-known brand names, combined with the reduced service levels typical of a mass merchandiser, limit their ability to meet the needs of sporting goods customers. However, Wal-Mart is currently the largest retailer of sporting goods as measured by sales. Catalog and Internet-Based Retailers These retailers either focus on a specific category or activity or sell a full line of sporting goods through the use of catalogs and/or the Internet. We believe that the relationships we have developed with our suppliers and customers through our retail stores together with our growing e-commerce business provide us with a significant advantage over catalog-based and Internet-only retailers. Employees As of January 29, 2011, we employed approximately 10,100 full-time and 16,600 part-time associates. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, total employment will fluctuate throughout the year and typically peaks during the fourth quarter. None of our associates are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our associates are good. Proprietary Rights Various versions of each of “Dick’s”, “Dick’s Sporting Goods”, “DicksSportingGoods.com”, “Golf Galaxy”, “Walter Hagen”, “Maxfli”, “Northeast Outfitters”, “Power Bolt”, “Fitness Gear”, “Ativa”, “Nishiki”, “Acuity”, “DBX”, “Field & Stream” (footwear only) and “Quest” have been registered as a service mark or trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have numerous pending applications for trademarks. We have entered into licensing agreements for names that we do not own, which provide for exclusive rights to use names such as “adidas” (baseball only), “Field & Stream” (camping, hunting and fishing), “Slazenger” and “Umbro” for specified product categories. These licenses contemplate long—term business relationships, with substantial initial terms and the opportunity for multi-year extensions. These licenses contain customary termination provisions at the option of the licensor including, in some cases, termination upon our failure to purchase or sell a minimum volume of products and may include early termination fees. Our licenses are also subject to risks and uncertainties common to licensing arrangements that are described within Item 1A. “Risks Factors”. Governmental Regulations We must comply with various federal, state and local regulations, including regulations relating to consumer products and consumer protection, advertising and marketing, labor and employment laws, data protection and privacy, intellectual property, the environment and tax. 11 Table of Contents In addition, in connection with the sale of firearms in our stores, we must comply with the federal Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, which require us to perform a pre-sale background check of purchasers of long guns. We perform this background check using either the FBI-managed National Instant Criminal Background Check System (“NICS”), or a state government-managed system that relies on the NICS and any additional information collected by the state. These background check systems either confirm that a sale can be made, deny the sale, or require that the sale be delayed for further review, and provide us with a transaction number for the proposed sale. We are required to record the transaction number on Form 4473 of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and retain a copy for our records for five years for auditing purposes for each denied sale. Ensuring our compliance with these various laws and regulations, and keeping abreast of changes to the legal and regulatory landscape, requires us to expend considerable resources. Executive Officers of the Company The current executive officers of the Company, and their prior business experience, are as follows: Edward W. Stack — 56, has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1984 when the founder and Edward Stack’s father, Richard “Dick” Stack, retired from our then two store chain. Mr. Edward Stack has served us full-time since 1977 in a variety of positions, including President, Store Manager and Merchandise Manager. He is also a member of the board of directors of KeyCorp (NYSE: KEY), a leading bank-based financial services company. Joseph H. Schmidt — 51, became our President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2009. In 2008, Mr. Schmidt served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer responsible for all aspects of Store Operations, Real Estate & Development, Distribution and Transportation. Previously, Mr. Schmidt was our Executive Vice President — Operations, and before that Senior Vice President — Store Operations, a position he held beginning in 2005. Mr. Schmidt was Vice President — Store Operations beginning in 2001. Mr. Schmidt joined us in 1990 and has held various positions in store operations. From 1981 to 1990, he held various positions in store operations for Ames Department Stores, Inc. Timothy E. Kullman — 55, joined Dick’s Sporting Goods as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2007 and was promoted to Executive Vice President — Finance, Administration and Chief Financial Officer in February 2008. Prior to joining Dick’s, Mr. Kullman served as Chief Financial Officer of PetSmart (Nasdaq: PETM), a specialty pet retailer, since July 2002. Before joining PetSmart, Mr. Kullman was Executive Vice President and CFO for Hagemeyer North America Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned division of a global distribution company based in the Netherlands and spent three years at Genuardi’s Family Markets. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, CFO, Secretary and Treasurer for Delchamps, Inc., a major grocery chain in the southeastern United States. Mr. Kullman also held senior financial positions with Farm Fresh Inc., Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan and Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, LLP. David I. Mossé — 37, joined Dick’s Sporting Goods in 2010 as our Senior Vice President — General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Previously, Mr. Mossé was Senior Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Investment Team Member of Trian Fund Management, LP, a New York, NY investment advisory firm, since 2005. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Assistant General Counsel at Triarc Companies, Inc. (NYSE: WEN), the franchisor of the Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurant systems. Mr. Mossé also spent several years as an attorney with the law firms Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New York, NY, where he began his career, and the Venture Law Group in Menlo Park, California. Peter J. Whitsett — 45, became our Executive Vice President of Global Merchandising and Division President of Golf Galaxy in December 2010. He joined Dick’s Sporting Goods in March 2010 from Radio Shack Corporation (NYSE: RSH), where he had served as Executive Vice President and General Merchandise Manager since 2007. Between 1999 and 2007, Mr. Whitsett held several senior management positions for the Kmart retail business of Sears Holdings Corporation (Nasdaq: SHLD), including Senior Vice President and Chief Merchant for Kmart. Kathryn Sutter — 48, became our Senior Vice President — Human Resources in 2007 and was named an executive officer of the Company in 2008. Previously, Ms. Sutter was Vice President — Leadership and Organizational Development, a position she held since 2005. Prior to joining Dick’s, Ms. Sutter was employed by Office Depot, Inc. (NYSE: ODP) as Vice President of Development and Global Learning from May 2002 through October 2004. 12 Table of Contents Joseph R. Oliver — 51, became our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller in November 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Oliver served as our Vice President and Controller since February 2006 and as our Director of Accounting from May 2000 to February 2006. Prior to joining Dick’s, Mr. Oliver was employed by Dominion Resources, Inc. (NYSE: D) from 1983 to 2000 in various finance functions, most recently as Director of Accounting. Lauren Hobart — 42, joined Dick’s Sporting Goods in February 2011 as our Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to that, Ms. Hobart spent 14 years with PepsiCo, Inc. (NYSE: PEP), most recently serving as Chief Marketing Officer for its Carbonated Soft Drink portfolio in the United States. During her career at PepsiCo, Ms. Hobart held several other significant marketing roles and also spent several years in strategic planning. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Hobart worked in commercial banking for JP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo Bank. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties The recent economic and financial downturn may cause a decline in consumer spending and may adversely affect the Company’s business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price. Our operating results are affected by the relative condition of the U.S. economy. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher energy and fuel costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in operating and growing our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. As a business that depends on consumer discretionary spending, the Company may be adversely affected if our customers reduce their purchases due to continued job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, higher consumer debt and interest rates, reduced access to credit, falling home prices and lower consumer confidence. Decreases in same store sales, customer traffic or average value per transaction negatively affect the Company’s financial performance, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. Promotional activities and decreased demand for consumer products, particularly higher-end products, could affect profitability and margins. The potential effects of the recent economic and financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our sales, operating and financial results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, it is difficult to forecast results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the recent U.S. and global financial and economic crises are currently unknown or unpredictable and could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise additional capital if needed and the ability of banks to honor draws on our credit facility, or could otherwise negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. Although we generally generate funds from our operations and our existing credit facility to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements over the long-term may require access to additional sources of funds, including equity and debt capital markets, and continuing market volatility, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of the Company to access capital markets. The recent global crisis may also adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. It may cause suppliers to reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures and product promotions. The recent crisis and market instability make it difficult for us and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. The recent financial and economic crisis may also adversely affect our landlords and real estate developers of retail space, which may limit the availability of attractive leased store locations. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. A deterioration of economic conditions or an economic downturn in any of our major markets or in general could result in declines in sales and impair our growth. General economic conditions and other factors that affect discretionary spending in the regions in which we operate are beyond our control and are affected by: 13 Table of Contents § the impact of an economic recession; § unemployment trends; § the housing market; § consumer credit availability; § consumer debt levels; § consumer confidence in the economy; § gasoline and fuel prices; § interest rates and inflation; § tax rates and tax policy; § impact of natural disasters; § national and international security concerns; and § other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our net sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter-to-quarter in the future. These fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our quarterly net sales and operating results, including: § general economic conditions; § changes in demand for the products that we offer in our stores; § lockouts or strikes involving professional sports teams; § retirement of sports superstars used in marketing various products; § sports scandals; § costs related to the closures of existing stores; § litigation; § pricing and other actions taken by our competitors; and § adverse weather conditions in our markets. Our same store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our same store sales results could affect the price of our common stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our same store sales results, including: § general regional and national economic conditions; § competition; § our new store openings; § consumer trends and preferences; § changes in the other tenants in the shopping centers in which we are located; § new product introductions and changes in our product mix; § timing and effectiveness of promotional events; § lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment; and § weather. 14 Table of Contents Our same store sales may vary from quarter to quarter and could decline relative to the comparable period in the prior fiscal year. A decline in revenues or same store sales may cause the price of our common stock to decrease or to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price may include, among other things: § general economic and market conditions; § actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; § changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; § our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; § conditions or trends in our industry; § changes in the market valuations of other retail companies; § announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; § capital commitments; § additions or departures of key personnel; and § sales of common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our ability to operate and expand our business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose certain restrictions that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk on our senior secured revolving credit facility. The operation of our business, the rate of our expansion and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and, if necessary, the availability of equity or debt capital. We cannot assure you that our cash flow will be sufficient to meet these needs or that we would be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In addition, our obligations under the senior secured revolving credit facility are secured by interests in substantially all of our personal property, excluding store and distribution center equipment and fixtures, which may further limit our access to certain capital markets or lending sources. Moreover, the actual availability under our credit facility is limited to the lesser of 70% of our eligible inventory or 85% of our inventory’s liquidation value, in each case net of specified reserves and less any letters of credit outstanding, and therefore opportunities for increased cash flows from reduced inventories would be partially offset by reduced availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and if availability under our current senior secured revolving credit facility is not sufficient, we may have to obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Recent distress in the worldwide financial markets may result in continued diminished liquidity and credit availability. Furthermore, a downturn in the equity and debt markets and tightening of credit markets could make it difficult to obtain additional financing or raise capital, and thus we cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed or available on acceptable terms. Our liquidity or access to capital could also be adversely affected by other unforeseen changes in the financial markets and global economy. Although our current senior secured revolving credit facility does not expire until 2012, continued or future market distress could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. 15 Table of Contents Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies, some of which have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than us. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: § large format sporting goods stores and chains; § traditional sporting goods stores and chains; § specialty stores; § mass merchants; § catalog and Internet-based retailers; and § sporting goods brands that sell direct to consumers. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores or the adoption by competitors of innovative store formats, aggressive pricing strategies and retail sale methods, such as the Internet, could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase our number of retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. A lack of available financing on terms acceptable to real estate developers or a tightening credit market may adversely affect the retail sites available to us. We cannot assure you that stores or sites will be available to us, or that they will be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, merchandising and regulatory challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution centers, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from operations, such as the control of inventory levels in our stores. New stores in new markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets or new stores in existing markets. Expansion into new markets could also bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. To the extent that we become increasingly reliant on entry into new markets in order to grow, we may face additional risks and our net income could suffer. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating costs could increase. There also can be no assurance that our new stores will generate sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores also may face greater competition and have lower anticipated sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during their comparable years of operation. We may not be able to advertise cost-effectively in new or smaller markets in which we have less store density, which could slow sales growth at such stores. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores or maintain adequate warehousing and distribution capability at acceptable costs. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding sporting goods. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. If we misjudge the market for our merchandise our sales may decline significantly. We may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns or miss opportunities for other products, both of which could have a negative impact on our profitability. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could reduce our net sales. In addition, a major shift in consumer demand away from sporting goods or sport apparel could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company’s business and standing with our customers. The protection of our customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. The Company relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, its facilities and systems, and those of its third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors, could damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. We may be subject to claims and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of sporting goods equipment that we sell. In addition, although we do not sell hand guns, assault weapons or automatic firearms, we do sell hunting rifles and ammunition, which are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or distribution of our private label products. We may incur losses relating to these claims, including costs associated with defending against them. We may also incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on hunting rifle purchasers as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of hunting rifles and ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from hunting rifle manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of hunting rifles and ammunition. In addition, in the future there may be increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, on the sale of hunting rifles and ammunition in our current markets as well as future markets in which we may operate. Commencement of these lawsuits against us or the establishment of new regulations could reduce our sales and decrease our profitability. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Although we have entered into product liability indemnity agreements with many of our vendors and manufacturers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payments sufficient to offset product liability losses or, in the case of our private brand products, where almost all of the manufacturing occurs outside the United States, that we will be able to collect anything at all. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or hunting rifles sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. If our suppliers, distributors or manufacturers do not provide us with sufficient quantities of products, or if the cost of products are adversely affected by foreign trade issues, increasing prices for raw materials, political instability or other reasons, our sales and profitability may suffer. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,200 vendors. In fiscal 2010, purchases from Nike represented approximately 14% of our merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2010 purchases from no other vendor represented more than 10% of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain the merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profits. 17 Table of Contents Our suppliers are affected by the global financial crisis and worldwide economic situation, which may adversely affect their access to capital and liquidity, inventory and production levels, customer incentives and vendor allowances, product quality, or ability to continue operations, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. Further, the cost of our products is affected in part by the prices for raw materials. A substantial rise in the price of raw materials could dramatically increase the costs associated with the manufacturing of both the merchandise that we purchase from our vendors for sale in our stores, as well as products manufactured for our private brands, which could cause the cost of our products to increase and could potentially have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. We believe that a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, most, if not all, of our private brand merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to the risks of changes in import duties, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” or MFN status with the U.S. for a particular foreign country, delays in shipment, shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties (including the U.S. imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors or the manufacturers of our private brand products are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we purchase products directly or indirectly utilize labor and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S., we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors or we obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Our private brand offerings expose us to various risks. In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available in other stores. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings through a combination of brands that we own and brands that we license from third parties. We have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings. Although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers at each price point and provide us with higher gross margins than comparable products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to certain additional risks. These include, among others: risks related to our failure to comply with government and industry safety standards (e.g., those enforced by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies); potential mandatory or voluntary product recalls; suits or other claims resulting from injuries associated with the use of our private brand products; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit, knock offs, grey-market, infringing or otherwise unauthorized goods); our ability to successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with obligations under license agreements that we have with the licensors of brands, including in some instances certain sales minimums that if not met could cause us to lose the licensing rights or pay damages; sourcing and manufacturing outside the U.S., including foreign laws and regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, changes in economic conditions in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations and conducting activities with third-party manufacturers; increases in the price of raw materials used in the manufacturing of our private brand products; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents The loss of our key executives, especially Edward W. Stack, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business due to the loss of their experience and industry relationships. Our success depends on the continued services of our senior management, particularly Edward W. Stack, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Stack, in addition to serving as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, also holds a majority of the voting power of our capital stock, and has been operating the Company since 1984. Mr. Stack possesses detailed and in-depth knowledge of the issues, opportunities and challenges facing the Company and its businesses. If we were to lose any key senior executive, especially Mr. Stack, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our costs may change as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Many of the goods we purchase are manufactured abroad, and the prices charged by foreign manufacturers’ may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. We source goods from various countries, including China, and thus changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may affect the costs of goods that we purchase. We are subject to costs and risks associated with increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, including those relating to the sale of consumer products. We operate in a complex regulatory and legal environment that exposes us to compliance and litigation risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include: § those relating to consumer products, product liability or consumer protection, including the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act regarding lead and phthalates, as well as similar state laws; § those relating to the manner in which we advertise, market or sell our products; § labor and employment laws, including wage and hour laws; § those that prohibit or limit the sale in certain areas of certain products we offer, such as firearms, ammunition or knives; § tax laws or interpretations thereof; § data protection and privacy laws and regulations; § environmental laws and regulations, such as California’s Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act (known as Prop 65); § customs or import laws and regulations; and § securities and exchange laws and regulations. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are or may be made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim or our failure to protect our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We face various risks as a multi-channel retailer. There are various risks relating to operating as a multi-channel retailer that conducts business in stores, on the Internet and through catalogs, including the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of systems failure or inadequacy and increased competition. Further, governmental regulation of the Internet and e-commerce continues to evolve in such areas as taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Unfavorable changes to regulations in these areas could harm our business. We have contracted with a third party to maintain and operate our e-commerce website and are reliant on that party and its operational, privacy and security procedures and controls and its ability to maintain and operate our website. Failure by such third party to adequately maintain and operate our e-commerce website, including any prolonged disruption that affects our customers’ ability to utilize our website resulting in the loss of sales and customers and/or increased costs, could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. 19 Table of Contents In addition, as the popularity and use of e-commerce sites continue to increase, our business faces increased competition from various domestic and international sources, including our suppliers. We may require significant capital in the future to sustain or grow our business, including our e-commerce operations, and there is no assurance that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet those needs or that additional sources of capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. Our Dick’s and Golf Galaxy stores utilize a suite of applications from JDA for our core merchandising, allocation and replenishment systems. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell, process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities particularly if there are any unforeseen interruptions after implementation. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with these systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We rely on three distribution centers, and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at one of these facilities, we may lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver it to our stores. We currently operate a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 657,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, and a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of these facilities due to fire, tornado or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory or impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, as we grow, we may require additional distribution capacity, which could come in the form of expanding existing facilities or opening alternative or additional facilities. Any such expansions or openings could affect us in ways we cannot predict. Our business is seasonal and our annual results are highly dependent on the success of our fourth quarter sales. Our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating income results historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. The fourth quarter generated approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal 2010. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Because our Dick’s stores are generally concentrated in the eastern half of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. A majority of our Dick’s stores are located in the eastern half of the United States. Because of this, we are subject to regional risks, such as the regional economy, weather conditions, increasing costs of electricity, oil and natural gas, natural disasters, as well as government regulations specific to the states in which we operate. If the region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse event, our net sales and profitability could suffer. Our results of operations may be harmed by unseasonably warm winter weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonably cold weather. We sell a significant amount of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Abnormally warm weather conditions could reduce our sales of these items and cause a decrease in our profitability. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf or other merchandise and cause a decrease in our profitability. The Company is subject to various types of litigation and other claims, some of which may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the course of business, including those related to federal or state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer protection, advertising, employment, intellectual property, tort and other matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and other claims, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such matters. These suits or claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and devote substantial resources to defend against them and, in some 20 Table of Contents cases, we could incur significant losses in the form of settlements, judgements or other orders, as a result of which our business or financial performance may be adversely affected. For a description of our current material legal proceedings refer to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, as could assimilation of companies following acquisition. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business and their financial results may adversely affect our operating results. Our business is significantly dependent on our ability to meet our labor needs. The success of our stores depends significantly on our ability to hire and retain quality associates, including store managers and sales associates. We plan to expand our associate base to manage our anticipated growth. Competition for non-entry level personnel, particularly for associates with retail expertise, is highly competitive. Additionally, our ability to maintain consistency in the quality of customer service in our stores is critical to our success. Also, many of our store-level associates are in entry-level or part-time positions that historically have high rates of turnover. We are also dependent on the associates who staff our distribution centers, many of whom are skilled. We may be unable to meet our labor needs and control our costs due to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and wage inflation. If we are unable to hire and retain store-level associates capable of providing a high level of customer service, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although none of our associates are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our associates will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are controlled by our Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. We have two classes of common stock. The common stock has one vote per share and the Class B common stock has 10 votes per share. As of January 29, 2011, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B common stock and would control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Stack may also acquire additional shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and they may take actions with which our other stockholders disagree. Terrorist attacks, acts of war and foreign instability may seriously harm our business. Among the chief uncertainties facing our nation and the world, which may impact our business, is instability and conflict outside of the U.S., including political instability, terrorist attacks, acts of war or other events. No one can predict the timing or overall economic impact that would result from these events and they could have a very serious adverse impact on our business. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our Company, our employees, our facilities, our suppliers or our customers, which could significantly impact our operating results. The potential for future terrorist attacks or other acts of war or hostility, and the national and international responses to these events, may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our geographic focus in the eastern United States may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who may not have a similar geographic focus. 21 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class B common stock; classifying the board of directors such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; if our Class B common stock is no longer outstanding, prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who owns at least 15% of our common stock. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value with a charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in an impairment include changes in the industry in which we operate including general economic conditions, competition or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 