ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties The current economic and financial downturn may cause a decline in consumer spending and may adversely affect the Company’s business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price. Our operating results are affected by the relative condition of the U.S. economy. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher energy and fuel costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in operating and growing our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. As a business that depends on consumer discretionary spending, the Company will face a difficult 2009 because our customers may reduce their purchases due to job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, higher consumer debt and interest rates, reduced access to credit, falling home prices and lower consumer confidence. Decreases in comparable store sales, customer traffic or average value per transaction negatively affect the Company’s financial performance, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. Promotional activities and decreased demand for consumer products, particularly higher-end products, could affect profitability and margins. The potential effects of the economic and financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our sales, operating and financial results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, it is difficult to forecast results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the U.S. and global financial and economic crises are currently unknown or unpredictable and could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise additional capital if needed, and the ability of banks to honor draws on our credit facility, or could otherwise negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. Although we generally generate funds from our operations and our existing credit facility to pay our operating expenses and fund our capital expenditures, our ability to continue to meet these cash requirements over the long-term may require access to additional sources of funds, including capital and credit markets, and continuing market volatility, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of the Company to access capital and credit markets. The global crisis may also adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. It may cause suppliers to reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures and product promotions. The current crisis and market instability make it difficult for us and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. The financial and economic crisis may also adversely affect our landlords and real estate developers of retail space, which may limit the availability of attractive leased store locations. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. A deterioration of economic conditions or an economic downturn in any of our major markets or in general could result in declines in sales and impair our growth. General economic conditions and other factors that affect discretionary spending in the regions in which we operate are beyond our control and are affected by: – the impact of an economic recession; – unemployment trends; – the housing market; – consumer credit availability; – consumer debt levels; – consumer confidence in the economy; – gasoline and fuel prices; – interest rates and inflation; 13 Table of Contents – tax rates and tax policy; – impact of natural disasters; – national and international security concerns; and – other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our net sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. These fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our quarterly net sales and operating results, including: • general economic conditions; • changes in demand for the products that we offer in our stores; • lockouts or strikes involving professional sports teams; • retirement of sports superstars used in marketing various products; • sports scandals; • costs related to the closures of existing stores; • litigation; • pricing and other actions taken by our competitors; and • adverse weather conditions in our markets. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our common stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • general regional and national economic conditions; • competition; • our new store openings; • actions taken by our competitors; • consumer trends and preferences; • changes in the other tenants in the shopping centers in which we are located; • new product introductions and changes in our product mix; • timing and effectiveness of promotional events; • lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment; and • weather. Our comparable store sales may decline further than they did in the last fiscal year, and they may vary from quarter to quarter. A decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to decrease or to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price may include, among other things: • general economic and market conditions; 14 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; • conditions or trends in our industry; • changes in the market valuations of other retail companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; • capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our ability to operate and expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk on our current senior revolving credit facility. The operation of our business and the rate of our expansion depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions which restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to raise capital through the issuance of equity or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. Our obligations under the senior secured revolving credit facility are secured by interests in substantially all of our personal property excluding store and distribution center equipment and fixtures, which may further limit our access to certain capital markets or lending sources. Moreover, the actual availability under our credit facility is limited to the lesser of 70% of our eligible inventory or 85% of our inventory’s liquidation value, in each case net of specified reserves and less any letters of credit outstanding, and opportunities for increased cash flows from reduced inventories would be partially offset by reduced availability through our senior secured revolving credit facility. Furthermore, the downturn in the equity and debt markets and tightening of credit markets could make it difficult to obtain additional financing or raise capital, and thus we cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed or available on acceptable terms. In addition, recent distress in the worldwide financial markets has resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity or access to capital will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and global economy. Although our current senior secured revolving credit facility does not expire until 2012, continued market distress could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than us. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: – large format sporting goods stores; – traditional sporting goods stores and chains; – specialty sporting goods shops and pro shops; – mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, discount stores and department stores; and – catalog and Internet-based retailers. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores or the adoption by competitors of innovative store formats, aggressive pricing strategies and retail sale methods, such as the Internet, could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase the number of our retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. Unavailability of financing on terms acceptable to real estate developers or a tightening credit market may affect adversely the retail sites available to us. We cannot assure you that stores or sites will be available to us, or that they will be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution and merchandising and regulatory challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution centers, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from operations, such as the control of inventory levels in our existing stores, to the opening of new stores and markets. New stores in new markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets or new stores in existing markets. Expansion into new markets could also bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. To the extent that we become increasingly reliant on entry into new markets in order to grow, we may face additional risks and our net income could suffer. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating costs could increase. There also can be no assurance that our new stores will generate sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores also may face greater competition and have lower anticipated sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during their comparable years of operation. We may not be able to advertise cost-effectively in new or smaller markets in which we have less store density, which could slow sales growth at such stores. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores or maintain adequate warehousing and distribution capability at acceptable costs. If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences regarding sporting goods. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. If we misjudge the market for our merchandise our sales may decline significantly. We may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns or miss opportunities for other products, both of which could have a negative impact on our profitability. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could reduce our net sales. In addition, a major shift in consumer demand away from sporting goods or sport apparel could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company’s business and standing with our customers. The protection of our customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. The Company relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, its facilities and systems, and those of its third-party service provider, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors, could damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of sporting goods equipment that we sell. In addition, although we do not sell hand guns, assault weapons or automatic firearms, we do sell hunting rifles which are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or distribution of our private label products. We may incur losses relating to these claims or the defense of these claims. We may also incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on hunting rifle purchasers as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of hunting rifles sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from hunting rifle manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of hunting rifles. In addition, in the future there may be increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, on the sale of hunting rifles in our current markets as well as future markets in which we may operate. Commencement of these lawsuits against us or the establishment of new regulations could reduce our sales and decrease our profitability. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Although we have entered into product liability indemnity agreements with many of our vendors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payments sufficient to offset product liability losses or in the case of our private label products, collect anything at all. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or hunting rifles sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. If our suppliers, distributors or manufacturers do not provide us with sufficient quantities of products, our sales and profitability will suffer and risks associated with relying on foreign sources of production. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,400 vendors. In fiscal 2008, purchases from Nike represented approximately 12% of our merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2008 purchases from no other vendor represented more than 10% of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain the merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profits. Our suppliers are affected by the global financial crisis and worldwide economic situation, which may adversely affect their access to capital and liquidity, their inventory and production levels, customer incentives and vendor allowances, product quality, or ability to continue operations, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. We believe that a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, we believe most, if not all, of our private label merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to the risks of changes in import duties, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” or MFN status with the United States for a particular foreign country, delays in shipment, shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we purchase products directly or indirectly utilize labor and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the United States, we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors or we obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Countries from which our vendors obtain these new products may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products, and the United States may impose new duties, quotas 17 Table of Contents and other restrictions on imported products. The United States Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. The cost of such products may increase for us if applicable duties are raised or if exchange rates fluctuate, or if import quotas with respect to such products are imposed or made more restrictive, we may not be able to obtain certain goods. The loss of our key executives, especially Edward W. Stack, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business due to the loss of their experience and industry relationships. Our success depends on the continued services of our senior management, particularly Edward W. Stack, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. If we were to lose any key senior executive, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our costs may change as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Many of the goods we purchase are manufactured abroad, and the prices charged by foreign manufacturers’ may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. We source goods from various countries, including China, and thus changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may affect the costs of goods that we purchase. We are subject to costs and risks associated with increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, including those relating to the sale of consumer products. The complex regulatory and legal environment exposes us to compliance and litigation risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include: – those relating to consumer products, product liability or consumer protection, including the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act regarding lead and phthalates, as well as similar state laws; – those relating to the manner in which we advertise, market or sell our products; – labor and employment laws, including wage and hour laws, as well as proposed legislation such as the Employee Free Choice Act; – those that prohibit or limit the sale in certain areas of certain products we offer, such as firearms, ammunition or knives; – tax laws or interpretations thereof; – data protection and privacy laws and regulations; – environmental laws and regulations, such as California’s Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act (known as Prop 65); – customs or import laws and regulations; and – securities and exchange laws and regulations. We face various risks as an e-commerce retailer. We may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow our e-commerce business. Business risks relating to e-commerce sales include the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of systems failure or inadequacy, governmental regulation and taxation. We have contracted with a third-party to maintain and operate our e-commerce website and are reliant on that party and its operational, privacy and security procedures and controls and its ability to maintain and operate our website. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. Our Dick’s and Golf Galaxy stores utilize a suite of applications for our merchandise system that includes JDA Merchandising and Arthur Allocation. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and cause disruptions of operations, including, among others, an inability to process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities, particularly if there are any unforeseen interruptions after 18 Table of Contents implementation. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with these systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We rely on three distribution centers, and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at one of these facilities, we may lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver it to our stores. We currently operate a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 657,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, and a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of these facilities due to fire, tornado or any other cause would damage a significant portion of our inventory, could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could negatively affect our sales and profitability. Our growth could cause us to seek alternative facilities. Such expansion of the current facility or alternatives could affect us in ways we cannot predict. Our business is seasonal and our annual results are highly dependent on the success of our fourth quarter sales. Our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating income historically occur during the fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. The fourth quarter generated approximately 29% of our net sales for fiscal 2008. Any decrease in our fourth quarter sales, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Because our Dick’s stores are generally concentrated in the eastern half of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. A majority of our Dick’s stores are located in the eastern half of the United States. Because of this, we are subject to regional risks, such as the regional economy, weather conditions, increasing costs of electricity, oil and natural gas, natural disasters, as well as government regulations specific to the states in which we operate. If the region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse regional event, our net sales and profitability could suffer. Our results of operations may be harmed by unseasonably warm winter weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonably cold weather. We sell a significant amount of winter merchandise. Abnormally warm weather conditions could reduce our sales of these items and hurt our profitability. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf or other merchandise and hurt our profitability. The Company may be subject to periodic litigation, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour lawsuits and other types of claims that may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits, including class action lawsuits brought against the Company or its subsidiaries for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. We may incur losses relating to these claims. In addition, these proceedings could cause us to incur costs and may require us to devote resources to defend against these claims. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. This impairment could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of capital stock in certain circumstances, make particular types of investments, incur certain types of liens, pay cash dividends, redeem capital stock, consummate mergers and consolidations of certain sizes, enter into transactions with affiliates or make substantial asset sales. In addition, our obligations under the senior secured revolving credit facility are secured by interests in substantially all of our personal property excluding store and distribution center equipment and fixtures. In the event of our 19 Table of Contents insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt and/or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all, or that we would be able to operate at a profit. In addition, recent distress in the worldwide financial markets has resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity or access to capital will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and global economy. Although our current senior secured revolving credit facility does not expire until 2012, continued market distress could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, as could assimilation of companies following acquisition. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business and their financial results into ours may adversely affect our operating results. Our business depends on our ability to meet our labor needs. Our success depends on hiring and retaining quality managers and sales associates in our stores. We plan to expand our employee base to manage our anticipated growth. Competition for non-entry level personnel, particularly for employees with retail expertise, is intense. Additionally, our ability to maintain consistency in the quality of customer service in our stores is critical to our success. Also, many of our store-level employees are in entry-level or part-time positions that historically have high rates of turnover. We are also dependent on the employees who staff our distribution and return centers, many of whom are skilled. We may be unable to meet our labor needs and control our costs due to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and wage inflation. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. In addition, proposed legislation called the Employee Free Choice Act could make it easier for unions to organize based on card check authorization rather than by secret ballot election and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of a collective bargaining agreement upon us and a labor union if we and the union did not agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to hire and retain sales associates capable of providing a high level of customer service, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are controlled by our Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. We have two classes of common stock. The common stock has one vote per share and the Class B common stock has 10 votes per share. As of January 31, 2009, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B common stock and would control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Stack may also acquire additional shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of the other stockholders and they may take actions with which you disagree. Terrorist attacks, acts of war and foreign instability may seriously harm our business. Among the chief uncertainties facing our nation and world and, as a result, our business is the instability and conflict in the Middle East. Obviously, no one can predict with certainty what the overall economic impact will be as a result of these circumstances. Clearly, events or series of events in the Middle East or elsewhere could have a very serious adverse impact on our business. 20 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our Company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses, and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our geographic focus in the eastern United States may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who may not have a similar geographic focus. Risks associated with exclusive brand offerings. We offer our customers high-quality products at competitive prices marketed under exclusive brands. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private label offerings and have entered into several licensing agreements that grant us the right to sell and market certain products under third-party brands. We have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts related to these exclusive brand offerings. Although we believe that our private label products offer value to our customers at each price point and provide us with higher gross margins than comparable products we sell, the expansion of our exclusive brand offerings subjects us to certain additional risks. These include, among others, risks related to: our failure to comply with government and industry safety standards (e.g., the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies) related to our private label products; mandatory or voluntary product recalls related to our exclusive brand offerings; being subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of private label sporting goods equipment that we sell; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit, knock offs, grey-market, infringing or otherwise unauthorized goods) of our exclusive branded offerings; our ability to successfully navigate the proprietary rights of other parties and avoid claims related to proprietary rights of others; our ability to successfully administer and comply with third-party licenses and contractual commitments that we have with the licensors of the brands, including in some instances certain sales minimums, which if not met in some instances can cause us to lose the licensing rights or pay damages; risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing — foreign laws and regulation, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, changes in economic conditions in countries, exchange rate fluctuations and conducting activities with third-party manufacturers and those risks generally encountered by entities that sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class B common stock; classifying the board of directors such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; if our Class B common stock is no longer outstanding, prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own at least 15% of our common stock. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. Events and conditions which could result in an impairment include changes in the industry in which we operate, including general economic conditions, 21 Table of Contents competition or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 