Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this report, including our financial statements and related notes, before purchasing our common stock. Any of the risks described below could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The trading price of our common stock may decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business The current severe worldwide economic slowdown may continue to negatively affect our sales, which would materially adversely affect our profitability and revenue growth. Our revenue and profitability depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for IT services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue and profitability. Additionally, the implementation costs of our expense reduction measures and other restructuring efforts necessitated by the economic environment have resulted, and may result in the future, in net losses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. Quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations could cause our stock price to decline or fluctuate. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. During the past eight quarters, our quarterly net income from continuing operations has ranged from a loss of approximately $52.9 million to income of approximately $16.0 million. In future periods, our operating results could be below public expectations, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, may affect our quarterly results of operations, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unanticipated changes in the demand for our services due to changing macroeconomic factors; • the size, timing and terms and conditions of significant projects; • variations in the duration, size and scope of our projects; • contract terminations or cancellation or deferral of projects; • our ability to manage costs, including personnel and support services costs, and investments required by us to maintain our existing operations and support future growth; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses; • the timing and costs of restructuring efforts, severance payments and related project costs necessitated by economic conditions; and • the size and timing of write-offs or write-downs of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets, if deemed necessary due to impairment testing, dispositions or other events. During recent years, our quarterly results have also fluctuated as a result of the number of working days in each period and the seasonality of client demand in the segments of the IT services industry we serve. Typically our fourth quarter is strongest, when client demand is greatest, and the second quarter is weakest, when the number of working days in the quarter is usually lowest in Israel, one of our largest employee locations. We expect these factors to continue to be significant in the future, although we believe that the impact of the number of working days on our results of operations will decrease as our international business continues to grow. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our clients typically retain our services for set engagements pursuant to contracts that may be terminated by them with little or no notice and without termination fees. The termination, cancellation or deferral of one or more significant projects could materially and adversely affect our operating results in any fiscal quarter. In addition, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our near-term operating costs are, therefore, to a large extent, fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs on a timely basis in any quarter to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. If our clients terminate significant contracted projects or choose not to retain us for additional projects, or if we are restricted from providing services to our clients’ competitors, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Many of our client contracts, including those that are on a fixed price and timeframe basis, can be terminated by the client with or without cause upon 90 days’ notice or less, and generally without termination-related penalties. Additionally, our contracts with clients are typically limited to discrete projects without any commitment to a specific volume of business or future work and may involve multiple stages. In addition, the increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex projects for our clients that require us to devote resources to more thoroughly understand their operations. Despite these efforts, our clients may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay planned or existing engagements due to any number of factors, including: • a client’s financial difficulties; • a change in a client’s strategic priorities; • a client’s demand for price reductions; and • a decision by a client to utilize its in-house IT capacity or work with our competitors. These potential terminations, cancellations or delays in planned or existing engagements could make it difficult for us to use our personnel efficiently. In addition, some of our client contracts restrict us from engaging in business with certain competitors of our clients during the term of the agreements and for a limited period following termination of these agreements. Any of the foregoing factors may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. If we fail to meet our clients’ performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed, causing us to lose clients or exposing us to legal liability. As an IT services provider, our ability to attract and retain clients depends to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality professional services and integrity. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services or solutions, including those of subcontractors we engage, our reputation may be damaged. In addition, a number of our contracts provide for incentive-based or other pricing terms pursuant to which some of our fees are contingent on our ability to meet revenue enhancement, cost-saving or other contractually defined performance goals. Our failure to meet these goals or a client’s expectations in such performance-based contracts may result in a less profitable or an unprofitable engagement. Moreover, if we fail to meet our clients’ performance expectations, we may lose clients and be subject to legal liability, particularly if such failure adversely impacts our clients’ businesses. In addition, many of our projects are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. Our exposure to legal liability may be increased in the case of outsourcing contracts in which we become more involved in our clients’ operations. While our contracts typically include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the solutions we develop, these provisions may not adequately protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. The general liability insurance coverage that we maintain, including coverage for errors and omissions, is subject to important exclusions and limitations. We cannot be certain that this coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our profitability. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to complete fixed price contracts on budget and on time, our profitability may be adversely affected. We offer a portion of our services on a fixed price basis, rather than on a time-and-materials basis. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, revenues from fixed price projects accounted for approximately 30%, 29% and 31% of our total revenues, respectively. Under these contractual arrangements, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation. We have incurred losses on fixed price projects in the past, and we may incur losses on fixed price projects in the future if we fail to estimate accurately the resources and time required to complete a project or fail to complete our contractual obligations within the scheduled timeframe. If we incur losses on fixed price projects in the future, our profitability may suffer. We may be required to be responsible for the performance of business partners we do not control, which could lower our margins and reduce profitability. In connection with some of our more complex engagements, we have been required, and may in the future be required, to assume contingent responsibility for the performance of business partners. Our being required to perform the third party obligations of these commitments could have a material adverse affect on our margins and profitability because we would be required to incur additional costs, possibly without any corresponding recovery against the third parties. While we will continue to manage liabilities or risks through rigorous transaction review, we expect that clients may require us to assume certain additional contractual obligations and potential liabilities when we are responsible for the performance of business partners we do not control. The declining value of our market capitalization during the current world economic downturn could require us to write-down the value of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our balance sheet contains a significant amount of goodwill and other amortizable intangible assets in long-term assets, totaling about $284 million at December 31, 2009. We review goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently when indications for potential impairment exist. We review other amortizable intangible assets for impairment when indicators for impairment exist. During portions of the current capital markets downturn, our stock price, and consequently our market capitalization, have declined, and may decline further in the future. If the value of our market capitalization falls below the value of our stockholders’ equity, it might indicate that a write-down is required. A write-down of goodwill is required if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. We determine the fair value of each reporting unit using the Income Approach, which utilizes a discounted cash flow model, as we believe that this approach best approximates our fair value at this time. We have corroborated the fair values using the Market Approach. Judgments and assumptions related to future growth rates, weighted average cost of capital, interest, cash flows and market conditions are inherent in developing the discounted cash flow model; see “— Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” As part of our goodwill impairment analysis, we compare our market capitalization to the fair value of the Company based on a third-party valuation study. Our ability to reconcile the gap between our market capitalization and our aggregate fair value depends on various factors, some of which are quantitative, such as an estimated control premium that an investor would be willing to pay for a controlling interest in us, and some of which are qualitative and involve management judgment, including stable relatively high backlog coverage and experience in meeting operating cash flow targets. If our market capitalization stays below the value of our stockholders’ equity, or actual results of operations differ materially from our modeling estimates and related assumptions, or if any of our qualitative reconciliation factors changes in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our goodwill. As part of our annual impairment test as of December 31, 2009, we recorded impairment of our goodwill and long-lived assets in the total amount of $29.3 million in connection with (a) our Software Distribution segment, which resells third-party enterprise software licenses, and which we restructured due to ongoing performance below expectations as large license deals in Europe continue to be deferred, and (b) the operations of our System Integration and Application Development segment in the Asia Pacific region, where we have undertaken a restructuring effort with respect to selected smaller operations that were unprofitable or that we determined were not strategic to our planned future operations and growth. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We cannot assure that additional goodwill impairment will not be required in the future. Each such write-down, if required, could result in a significant non-cash expense on our income statement, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants with respect to our long-term and short-term debt, and we do not obtain waivers of such covenants from our lenders, our lenders may accelerate repayment of the debt, which would limit our operating flexibility. Our long-term loans and bank guarantees contain covenants that, among other things, require positive operating income, a certain ratio of total financial obligations to consolidated EBITDA, a certain ratio of total stockholders’ equity to total consolidated assets, and a minimum stockholders’ equity, and place limitations on our ability to merge or transfer assets to third parties. Our failure to comply with the covenants could lead to an event of default under the agreements governing some or all of this indebtedness, permitting the applicable lender to accelerate all borrowings. As of December 31, 2009, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants. We received a waiver from the lenders with respect to the covenants as of December 31, 2009, and the lenders agreed to provide, as substitutes, less stringent covenants to apply through December 31, 2010. We cannot assure that we will maintain compliance with applicable covenants in the future. If we fail to comply with the covenants and do not receive waivers from the lenders, our lenders may accelerate repayment of some or all of the affected debt, which would materially limit our operating flexibility. The high volatility in the value of stocks, bonds and other investments during the current world economic downturn could require us to write-down the value of our severance pay fund, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under Israeli law, we must provide severance for all our employees in Israel. We fund the severance through monthly deposits in externally managed funds, invested mostly in conservative investments such as government and corporate bonds. During portions of the current capital markets downturn, the value of these investments has declined, and they may lose additional value in the future. The magnitude of the future potential loss is unpredictable, because it is based on the market value of investments at a future date. The severance pay fund is recorded at redeemable value on our balance sheet, and if the value of the investments falls, we will be required to write down the value of the severance pay fund asset on our balance sheet. If the write-down is significant, it would result in a significant expense on our income statement, materially adversely affecting our results of operations. We may engage in acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, alliances or other ventures that are not successful, or fail to integrate acquired businesses into our operations, which may adversely affect our competitive position and growth prospects. In the last three years we acquired five companies. We may seek to acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties in the future in order to expand our business. However, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all, which may adversely affect our competitive position and our growth prospects. If we acquire another business, we may face difficulties, including: • integrating that business’ personnel, products, technologies or services into our operations; • retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • failing to adequately identify or assess liabilities of that business; • failure of that business to fulfill its contractual obligations; • failure of that business to achieve the forecasts we used to determine the purchase price; and • diverting our management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business and increase our expenses. As of the date of this report, we have no agreements to enter into any material acquisition, investment, partnership, alliance or other joint venture transaction. As we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the Israeli government, a reduction of government spending in Israel on IT services would reduce, possibly materially, our revenues and profitability; and any delay in its annual budget approval process would negatively impact our cash flows. We perform work for a wide range of Israeli governmental agencies, including defense, education, justice and finance, in separate unrelated transactions, which collectively represented approximately 13% of our revenues in 2009. Any reduction in total Israeli government spending for political or economic reasons, such as occurred in the Israeli recession ending in 2004 or the current worldwide recession, would reduce, possibly materially, our revenues and profitability. In addition, the government of Israel has experienced significant delays in the approval of its annual budget in most of the last six years. Such delays in the future could materially and negatively affect our cash flows by delaying receipt of payment from the government of Israel for services performed. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled IT professionals, we may not have the necessary resources to properly staff projects and competition for such professionals may adversely affect our profitability. Our success depends largely on the contributions of our employees and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including technology, consulting, engineering, marketing and management professionals. Competition for qualified personnel in the IT services industry, in the markets in which we operate, particularly in India, can be intense and, accordingly, we may not be able to retain or hire all of the personnel necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs. If we are unable to attract and retain the highly skilled IT professionals we need, we may have to forego projects for lack of resources or be unable to staff projects optimally. In addition, the competition for highly skilled employees may require us to increase salaries of highly skilled employees, and we may be unable to pass on these increased costs to our clients, which would reduce our profitability. If we fail to manage our growth, our business could be disrupted and our profitability will likely decline. We have experienced rapid growth during most of our eleven-year corporate history, through both acquisitions and organic growth. The number of our employees increased from approximately 5,025 as of December 31, 2004 to approximately 8,425 as of December 31, 2008. Although our employee headcount decreased to 7,835 during 2009 as we reduced costs as a result of the worldwide economic recession, we expect to resume our growth as the economy recovers, and this growth may significantly strain our management and other operational and financial resources. In particular, continued growth increases the integration challenges involved in: • recruiting, training and retaining skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; • maintaining high quality standards; • preserving our corporate culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal controls; and • maintaining high levels of client satisfaction. The rapid execution necessary to exploit the market for our business model requires an effective planning and management process. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support the growth in our operations, and our management may not be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to exploit the market for our business model. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our profitability will likely decline. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our success depends in part upon the senior members of our management team, and our inability to attract and retain them could have a negative effect on our ability to operate our business. We are highly dependent on the senior members of our management team. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain our senior management personnel or attract and retain new senior management personnel in the future. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could have a negative effect on our ability to attract and retain clients, execute our business strategy and otherwise operate our business, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Our clients’ complex regulatory requirements may increase our costs, which could negatively impact our profits. Many of our clients, particularly those in the financial services, life sciences, healthcare and defense verticals, are subject to complex and constantly changing regulatory requirements. On occasion, these regulatory requirements change unpredictably. These regulations may increase our potential liabilities if our services are found to contribute to a failure by our clients to comply with the requirements applicable to them and may increase compliance costs as regulatory requirements increase or change. These increased costs could negatively impact our profits. Disruptions in our telecommunications infrastructure could harm our ability to operate and to deliver our services effectively, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues and results of operations. A significant element of our global delivery model is to continue to leverage and expand our global development centers. Our global development centers are linked with a network architecture that uses multiple telecommunication service providers and various links with alternate routing, including some routing via virtual private networks on the internet. We may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our various global development centers and between our global development centers and our clients’ sites at all times. Any significant loss or impairment of our ability to communicate could result in a disruption in our business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may force us to incur unanticipated costs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for certain intellectual property incorporated into our software solutions and our proprietary methodologies. We may be unable to obtain patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing similar solutions that limit the effectiveness of our patent protection and force us to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. While we attempt to retain intellectual property rights arising from client engagements, our clients often have the contractual right to such intellectual property. For intellectual property that we own, we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements. These measures may not adequately prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to secure necessary additional financing, we may not be able to fund our operations or strategic growth. In order to achieve our strategic business objectives, we may be required to seek additional financing. For example, future acquisitions may require additional equity and/or debt financing. Also, we may require additional capital to continue to develop our technology and infrastructure and for working capital purposes. These financings may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to secure additional financing could 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS prevent us from completing acquisitions, developing new technologies and competing effectively, all of which would have a negative impact on our continued development and growth. Risks Relating to Our International Operations Our international operations subject us to currency exchange fluctuations, which could negatively impact our profitability or revenue growth rate. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in NIS, dollars, Euros and other European currencies, while a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we operate. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-United States denominated transactions into dollars in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Despite our use of certain forward foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge our balance sheet exposure against foreign currency exchange fluctuations and to partially hedge against the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in Indian Rupees, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the dollar could increase the dollar cost of our operations and therefore have an adverse effect on our profitability, or could reduce our revenue growth rate in dollar terms. If or when the government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it provides to us, our net income will decrease. Currently, we receive tax benefits that India provides to exporters of IT services under the Software Technology Parks of India (“STPI”) program. Until March 31, 2009, this “tax holiday” provided a complete exemption from corporate income tax for exported IT services, compared to an ordinary corporate tax rate of approximately 34%. In mid-2007, India imposed a minimum alternative tax (“MAT”), currently 15%, but India permits amounts due under the MAT to be offset against future taxes that would be due when the STPI program ends. As a result, our operations in India were subject to relatively low tax rates. The STPI program was extended by the Indian government to expire on March 31, 2010, and subsequently extended to expire on March 31, 2011, but with the stipulation that no exporter of Indian IT services could benefit from the STPI program for more than 10 fiscal years. Our largest Indian delivery center, located in Bangalore, lost its tax exemption on March 31, 2009 because it had benefitted from the exemption since the beginning of the original ten-year STPI program, and this increased our tax expense and reduced our profitability. Our second-largest Indian delivery center will lose its tax exemption on March 31, 2010 because it will have benefitted from the exemption for ten years at that date, and this will further increase our tax expense and reduce our profitability. Our other Indian delivery centers continue to benefit from the STPI program. The STPI program may be extended again in its current form or a reduced form. Even if the STPI program expires, exporters of IT services may still be able to maintain a partial exemption from Indian corporate taxes by locating new operations in special economic zones (“SEZ”) in certain Indian cities. If the STPI program is eliminated on March 31, 2011 as currently scheduled; or if the STPI program is extended again but we are not able to take full advantage of it in its new form; or if we are unable to, or decide not to, locate a significant portion of our operations in an SEZ; or if we remain exempt from taxes but are no longer permitted to offset MAT amounts due against future taxes, then our tax expense will increase further, reducing our profitability. If we fail to achieve planned growth in our offshore and near-shore facilities, our ability to fulfill client commitments profitably or at all may be compromised. Our growth strategy relies in part on the expansion of our offshore development centers. If we fail to retain needed employees in India and other offshore locations, or to manage growth in these regions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Employee attrition rates in India are significantly higher than in other geographic areas. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in North America and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals; however, wages in India continue to increase at a significantly faster rate than in North America and Western Europe, which could result in increased costs for IT professionals, particularly project managers and other 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS mid-level professionals. As a result of competing demand in the Indian employment market, we may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation unduly to remain competitive. Compensation increases may hinder our planned growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy also relies on the expansion of our near-shore development centers. If we fail to retain needed employees in Eastern Europe and other near-shore locations, or to manage growth in these regions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Skilled IT professionals are in short supply in Eastern Europe, and we may be unable to achieve the headcount growth needed to fulfill our committed work, or we may have to increase the levels of our employee compensation to attract the needed number of employees. Such shortfalls of employees and/or compensation increases may hinder our planned growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. We currently operate in 18 countries and intend to further penetrate key markets, primarily in North America and Europe, while continuing to establish and expand offshore and near-shore development centers in lower-cost Asian and Eastern European markets. We expect to devote significant resources to this effort but may not be successful in this regard. Risks inherent in our international business activities include: • difficulties in staffing international projects and managing international operations; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • local competition, particularly in North America and Europe; • imposition of public sector controls; • trade and tariff restrictions; • price or exchange controls; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • foreign tax consequences; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. One or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Wage inflation in India and elsewhere could reduce our profitability. Annual wage inflation for IT professionals in India over the past several years has exceeded world-wide averages significantly. Based on our review of publicly available information, we believe that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future. Similarly, wage inflation for IT professionals in our other geographic areas prior to the onset of the worldwide recession was higher in the last several years than in the preceding years. If we are unable to provide adequately for such wage increases in our contracts with our customers, or if unexpectedly large wage increases occur, we may experience a material adverse effect on our profitability. Regional instability in Israel and India may adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. We generated approximately 32% of our revenues in Israel in 2009. In addition, our principal offices and a significant portion of our employees are located in Israel. Therefore, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. We cannot predict the effect on our business of any increase in the degree of violence against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its Arab neighbors remains uncertain. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, several countries restrict or prohibit business with Israel or companies that do business in Israel. These restrictive laws and policies may severely limit our ability to provide services in those countries. Some of our employees in Israel are currently obligated to perform up to 36 days, depending on rank and position, of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called for active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any consequent disruption in our operations could adversely affect our profitability. We also generate significant revenues from services we deliver from India, where 37% of our employees were located at December 31, 2009. India has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities with Pakistan. In recent years, there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border as well as terrorist activity in several major Indian cities. Although the relations between the two countries have been generally improving, military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could adversely affect the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services from India. Disruption in our operations could adversely affect our profitability. Political change or instability in Central and Eastern Europe may adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. We generated approximately 32% of our revenues in Europe in 2009, the great majority of which was from customers in Central and Eastern Europe, where we maintain operations in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. Several of these countries have recently undergone, or are currently undergoing, political regime change, including in some cases interim care-taker governments. Such political uncertainty has resulted, and may result in the future, in significant delays in the award of large public sector contracts for IT services and in major investments within the private sector. Furthermore, such political uncertainty could delay the availability of external European Union funding which has been promised to these countries, significant portions of which are designated for infrastructure improvement, including IT infrastructure and IT services. Because such public sector contract awards, private sector investments and infrastructure-related IT services spending represent a portion of our anticipated revenues in Central and Eastern Europe, such delays could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Potential anti-outsourcing legislation in the United States could impair our ability to service our clients. Over the past several years, the issue of outsourcing of services abroad by American companies has been a topic of political discussions in the United States. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by United States companies are under discussion in Congress and in as many as one-half of the state legislatures. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been introduced to date, given the intense debate over this issue, the introduction of such legislation is possible. If introduced, such measures are likely to fall within two categories: (1) measures that extend restrictions on outsourcing by federal government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and (2) measures that affect private industry, such as tax disincentives or intellectual property transfer restrictions. If any of these measures become law, our ability to service our clients could be impaired. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services in our clients’ countries, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. A portion of our revenues is derived from offshore outsourcing, which requires some personnel from our offshore locations in India and elsewhere to travel to client sites for rotational assignments. The ability of those IT professionals to work in North America, Europe and other countries depends on their ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. The United States has reduced the number of H-1B visas authorized annually, and has also increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1B, L-1 and ordinary business visas. A number of European countries are considering changes in immigration policies as well. The inability of key project personnel to obtain necessary visas could delay or prevent our fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Terrorist attacks or a war could negatively affect our financial results and prospects. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, and other acts of violence or war, like the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, could affect us or our clients by disrupting normal business practices for extended periods of time and reducing business confidence. In addition, these attacks may make travel more difficult and may effectively curtail our ability to serve our clients’ needs, any of which could negatively affect our financial results and prospects. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile and could drop unexpectedly. The market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including the following, several of which are beyond our control: • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts relating to our stock; • changes in market valuations of IT service providers and other high technology companies; • economic disruptions, such as the current worldwide recession or the 2008 – 2009 credit and liquidity crisis among major financial institutions; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a major client or changes in our employee utilization rate; • unfavorable legal or arbitration judgments; and • changes in key personnel. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, would likely cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and reduce our profitability. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change in control of the company and could also limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware corporate law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • prohibiting the stockholders from fixing the number of our directors; • authorizing our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without additional stockholder approvals; • limiting the individuals who may call a special meeting to our chairman, chief executive officer, the majority of our board of directors or the majority of our stockholders; • requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent, unless unanimous. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 