ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets and the ongoing economic and financial downturn may cause a decline in consumer spending that may adversely affect the Company's business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price. Our operating results are affected by the relative condition of the U.S. economy. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher energy and fuel costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in operating and growing our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S. As a business that depends on consumer discretionary spending, the Company may be adversely affected if our customers reduce their purchases due to continued job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, higher consumer debt and interest rates, reduced access to credit, falling home prices, lower consumer confidence, uncertainty or changes in tax policies and tax rates and uncertainty due to national or international security concerns. Decreases in same store sales, customer traffic or average value per transaction negatively affect the Company's financial performance, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. Promotional activities and decreased demand for consumer products, particularly higher-end products, could affect profitability and margins. The potential effects of the ongoing economic and financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our sales, operating and financial results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, it is difficult to forecast results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. The ongoing global crisis may also adversely affect our suppliers' access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. It may cause suppliers to reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures and product promotions. The ongoing crisis and market instability make it difficult for us and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our net sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter-to-quarter in the future. These fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our quarterly net sales and operating results, including: •general economic conditions; •changes in demand for the products that we offer; •lockouts or strikes involving professional sports teams; •retirement of sports superstars used in marketing various products; •sports scandals; •costs related to the closures of existing stores; 15 Table of Contents •litigation; •pricing and other actions taken by our competitors; and •weather conditions in our markets. Our same store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our same store sales may vary from quarter-to-quarter and could decline relative to the comparable period in the prior fiscal year. A decline in revenues or same store sales may cause the price of our common stock to decrease or to fluctuate significantly. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our same store sales results, including: •general regional and national economic conditions; •competition; •our new store openings; •consumer trends and preferences; •changes in the shopping centers, malls and retail nodes in which we are located and their tenants; •new product introductions and changes in our product mix; •timing and effectiveness of promotional events; •lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment; and •weather conditions in our markets. Our ability to operate and expand our business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose certain restrictions that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital. The operation of our business, the rate of our expansion and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and, if necessary, the availability of equity or debt capital. We cannot assure you that our cash flow will be sufficient to meet these needs or that we would be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and if availability under our current senior secured revolving credit facility is not sufficient, we may have to obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Ongoing distress in the worldwide financial markets may result in continued diminished liquidity and credit availability. Furthermore, a downturn in the equity or debt markets or the tightening of credit markets could make it difficult to obtain additional financing or raise capital, and thus we cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed or available on acceptable terms. Our liquidity or access to capital could also be adversely affected by other unforeseen changes in the financial markets and global economy. 16 Table of Contents Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies, some of which have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than us. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: •large format sporting goods stores and chains; •traditional sporting goods stores and chains; •specialty stores; •mass merchants; •catalog and Internet-based retailers; and •sporting goods brands that sell direct to consumers. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores or the adoption or proliferation by competitors of innovative store formats, aggressive pricing strategies and retail sale methods, such as the Internet, could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase our number of retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. A lack of available financing on terms acceptable to real estate developers or a tightening credit market may adversely affect the number or quality of retail sites available to us. We cannot assure you that stores or sites will be available to us, or that they will be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, merchandising and regulatory challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution centers, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from operations, such as the control of inventory levels in our stores. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores or maintain adequate warehousing and distribution capability at acceptable costs. New stores also may have lower than anticipated sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during their comparable years of operation, and sales volumes at new stores may not be sufficient to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores in new markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets or new stores in existing markets. For example, expansion into new markets could bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. We also 17 Table of Contents may not be able to advertise cost-effectively in new or smaller markets in which we have less store density, which could slow sales growth at such stores. To the extent that we are not able to meet these various challenges, our sales could decrease, our operating costs could increase and our profitability could be impacted. If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand or shopping patterns, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand and preferences and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. If we misjudge the market for our merchandise our sales may decline significantly. We may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns or miss opportunities for other products, both of which could have a negative impact on our profitability. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could impact our net sales. In addition, a major shift in consumer demand away from sporting goods could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company's business and standing with our customers. The protection of our customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. The Company relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, its facilities and systems, and those of its third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors, could damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. We may be subject to various types of litigation and other claims and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the course of business, including those related to federal or state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer protection, advertising, employment, intellectual property, tort and other matters. In addition, although we do not sell hand guns, assault weapons or automatic firearms, we do sell hunting rifles, semi-automatic hunting rifles and ammunition, which are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or distribution of our private brand products. We may incur losses relating to these claims, including costs associated with defending against them. We may also incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on hunting rifle purchasers as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of hunting rifles and ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from hunting rifle manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of hunting rifles and ammunition. In addition, in the future there may be increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, on the sale of hunting rifles and ammunition in our current markets as well as future markets in which we may operate. Commencement of these lawsuits against us or the establishment of new regulations could reduce our sales and decrease our profitability. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Although 18 Table of Contents we have entered into product liability indemnity agreements with many of our vendors and manufacturers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payments sufficient to offset product liability losses or, in the case of our private brand products, where almost all of the manufacturing occurs outside the United States, that we will be able to collect anything at all. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or hunting rifles sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and other claims, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such matters. If our suppliers, distributors or manufacturers do not provide us with sufficient quantities of products, or if the cost of products are adversely affected by foreign trade issues, increasing prices for raw materials, political instability or other reasons, our sales and profitability may suffer. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,200 vendors. In fiscal 2011, purchases from Nike represented approximately 15% of our merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2011 purchases from no other vendor represented 10% or more of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain the merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profits. Our suppliers are affected by the global financial crisis and worldwide economic situation, which may adversely affect their access to capital and liquidity, inventory and production levels, customer incentives and vendor allowances, product quality, or ability to continue operations, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. Further, the cost of our products is affected in part by the prices for raw materials. A substantial rise in the price of raw materials could dramatically increase the costs associated with the manufacturing of both the merchandise that we purchase from our vendors for sale in our stores, as well as products manufactured for our private brands, which could cause the cost of our products to increase and could potentially have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. We believe that a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, most of our private brand merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to the risks of changes in import duties, quotas, loss of "most favored nation" or MFN status with the U.S. for a particular foreign country, delays in shipment, shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, including as a result of severe weather or natural disasters, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties (including the U.S. imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors or the manufacturers of our private brand products are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we purchase products directly or indirectly utilize labor and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S., we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors or we obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, 19 Table of Contents we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Our private brand offerings expose us to various risks. In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available in other stores. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings through a combination of brands that we own and brands that we license from third parties. We have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings. Although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers at each price point and provide us with higher gross margins than comparable products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to certain additional risks. These include, among others: risks related to our failure to comply with government and industry safety standards (e.g., those enforced by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, and similar state regulatory agencies); potential mandatory or voluntary product recalls; suits or other claims resulting from injuries associated with the use of our private brand products; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit, knock offs, grey-market, infringing or otherwise unauthorized goods); our ability to successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with obligations under license agreements that we have with the licensors of brands, including in some instances certain sales minimums that if not met could cause us to lose the licensing rights or pay damages; sourcing and manufacturing outside the U.S., including foreign laws and regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, changes in economic conditions in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations and conducting activities with third-party manufacturers; increases in the price of raw materials used in the manufacturing of our private brand products; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationship with our vendors. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of our key executives, especially Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business due to the loss of their experience and industry relationships. Our success depends on the continued services of our senior management, particularly Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Stack also holds a majority of the voting power of our capital stock, and has been operating the Company since 1984. Mr. Stack possesses detailed and in-depth knowledge of the issues, opportunities and challenges facing the Company and its businesses. If we were to lose any key senior executive, especially Mr. Stack, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our costs may change as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Many of the goods we purchase are manufactured abroad, and the prices charged by foreign manufacturers may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. We source goods from various countries, including China, and thus changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may affect the costs of goods that we purchase. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to costs and risks associated with increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, including those relating to the sale of consumer products. We operate in a complex regulatory and legal environment that exposes us to compliance and litigation risks and that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include: •those relating to consumer products, product liability or consumer protection; •those relating to the manner in which we advertise, market or sell our products; •labor and employment laws, including wage and hour laws; •those that prohibit or limit the sale in certain areas of certain products we offer, such as firearms, ammunition or knives; •tax laws or interpretations thereof; •data protection and privacy laws and regulations; •customs or import laws and regulations; and •securities and exchange laws and regulations. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are or may be made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or result in our loss of the intellectual property. As a result, any such claim or our failure to protect our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We face various risks as an omni-channel retailer. There are various risks relating to operating as an omni-channel retailer that conducts business in stores, on the Internet and through catalogs, including the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of systems failure or inadequacy and increased competition. Further, governmental regulation of the Internet and e-commerce continues to evolve in such areas as taxation, privacy, data protection, copyrights, mobile communications and the provision of online payment services. Unfavorable changes to regulations in these areas could harm our business. In addition, as the popularity and use of e-commerce sites continue to increase; our business faces increased competition from various domestic and international sources, including our suppliers. We may require significant capital in the future to sustain or grow our business, including our e-commerce operations, and there is no assurance that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet those needs or that additional sources of capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. 21 Table of Contents We rely on a single third-party provider to maintain and operate our e-commerce website, and disruptions with the provider or in the services it provides to us could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. We have contracted with a single third party to maintain and operate our e-commerce website. We rely on that party and its operational, privacy and security procedures and controls and its ability to maintain and operate our website for our e-commerce business. Failure by such third party to adequately maintain and operate our e-commerce website, including any prolonged disruption that affects our customers' ability to utilize our website resulting in the loss of sales and customers and/or increased costs, could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. Furthermore, our ability to expand our e-commerce business, to use other e-commerce service providers or to utilize our own e-commerce capabilities may be limited by certain covenants relating to exclusivity contained in our current contractual arrangement with the third party provider. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. Our Dick's and Golf Galaxy stores utilize a suite of applications from JDA for our core merchandising, allocation and replenishment systems. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell, process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities particularly if there are any unforeseen interruptions after implementation. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with these systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We rely on three distribution centers, and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at one of these facilities, we may lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver it to our stores. We currently operate a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 657,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, and a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of these facilities due to fire, tornado or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory or impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors and could negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, as we grow, we may require additional distribution capacity, which could come in the form of expanding existing facilities or opening alternative or additional facilities. For example, we have entered into a development contract to construct a 624,000 square foot distribution center in Goodyear, Arizona, which is currently expected to be operational in January 2013. Any delay in the opening of this distribution center, or any future expansions or other openings, could affect us in ways we cannot predict. Our business is seasonal and our annual results are highly dependent on the success of our fourth quarter sales. Our business is highly seasonal in nature. Our highest sales and operating income results historically occur during our fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods. The fourth quarter generated approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal 2011. Poor performance during our fourth quarter, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. 22 Table of Contents Because our Dick's stores are generally concentrated in the eastern half of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. A majority of our Dick's stores are located in the eastern half of the United States. Because of this, we are subject to regional risks, such as the regional economy, weather conditions, increasing costs of electricity, oil and natural gas, natural disasters, as well as government regulations specific to the states in which we operate. If the region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse event, our net sales and profitability could suffer. Our results of operations may be harmed by unseasonably warm winter weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonably cold weather. We sell a significant amount of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Abnormally warm weather conditions could reduce our sales of these items and cause a decrease in our profitability. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf, team sports or other merchandise and cause a decrease in our profitability. We may pursue strategic acquisitions or investments and the failure of an acquisition or investment to produce the anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate the acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire or invest in complementary companies or businesses. The success of acquisitions or investments is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, operations, growth potential, integration and other factors relating to the respective business. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions or investments will produce the results that we expect at the time we enter into or we complete the transaction. Furthermore, acquisitions may result in difficulties in integrating the acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business and their financial results may adversely affect our operating results. Our business is significantly dependent on our ability to meet our labor needs. The success of our stores depends significantly on our ability to hire and retain quality associates, including store managers and sales associates. We plan to expand our associate base to manage our anticipated growth. Competition for non-entry level personnel, particularly for associates with retail expertise, is highly competitive. Additionally, our ability to maintain consistency in the quality of customer service in our stores is critical to our success. Also, many of our store-level associates are in entry-level or part-time positions that historically have high rates of turnover. We are also dependent on the associates who staff our distribution centers, many of whom are skilled. We may be unable to meet our labor needs and control our costs due to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and wage inflation. If we are unable to hire and retain store-level associates capable of providing a high level of customer service, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although none of our associates are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our associates will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are controlled by our Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. We have two classes of common stock: our common stock has one vote per share and our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share. As of January 28, 2012, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B common stock and would control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Stack may also acquire a substantial amount of additional shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options, which could dilute our other stockholders and have a negative impact on our earnings per share. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and they may take actions with which our other stockholders disagree. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class B common stock; classifying the board of directors such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; if our Class B common stock is no longer outstanding, prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who owns at least 15% of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as the stock market in general can be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate and in some cases may be highly volatile. These fluctuations will not always be linked to our operating performance. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause fluctuation in the market price of our common stock, including: •general economic and market conditions; •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations; •conditions or trends in our industry; •changes in the market valuations of other retail companies; 24 Table of Contents •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, investments, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; •capital commitments; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of common stock. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value with a charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in an impairment include changes in the industry in which we operate including general economic conditions, competition or other factors leading to reduction in expected sales or profitability. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Although our board of directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the declaration of dividends is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend. Furthermore, although we have authorized a one-year $200 million share repurchase program, we may discontinue this program at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 