ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. General economic conditions affect demand for our products and impact our production and selling costs. Listed below are some of the factors that may impact our results and cause our performance to differ materially from the results we may project. These are in addition to general economic factors and other items discussed elsewhere in this report (for example, in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Product Changes and Innovation We operate in a very competitive environment. Historically, product innovation and development have been key to our obtaining and maintaining market share and margins. Our future sales and profitability are partially impacted by our ability to anticipate and react more effectively than our competitors to changes in consumer demand for the types of products we sell. This requires understanding customer desires, creating products that meet those desires, and producing and selling products in a cost-effective manner. Changes in Customers We must address the demands of both the consumers who ultimately purchase and use our products and the retailers and others who sell our products to end-users. This is necessary for both of our segments, but it is particularly important in our Consumer Products segment. Our sales and margins can be impacted by changes in our distribution channels, customer mix, and merchandising strategies. Examples include customer concentration, consolidation, and substitution of unbranded products for branded products. Although we have a diverse customer base, we have several large customers. These large customers provide us with cost-saving opportunities that may not be available with smaller, more diverse accounts. However, large 4 Table of Contents customers can take actions that put pressure on our margins. Moreover, a significant downturn in the financial condition of one or more large customers could have an adverse effect on our business results. Increases in Production Costs Most of our products are made from plastic. Plastic-resin prices are impacted by the price of oil, natural gas, and chemical intermediaries, such as benzene and ethylene, which can be volatile and affected by many factors, including overall economic activity, geopolitical situations (particularly in oil-exporting regions), natural disasters, and governmental policies and regulation. Our margins can be negatively impacted by the difference in timing of raw-material cost increases and corresponding product selling-price increases. Similarly, changes in labor, utility, or transportation costs can affect our margins. Laws Relating to Use or Manufacture of Plastic Products Changes in laws or governmental actions regarding the use of disposable plastic products, such as laws relating to recycling or reuse of plastic products, could increase the cost of our products. Such additional costs could make our products less competitive with products made from other materials. Similarly, changes in laws regarding air emissions could increase our manufacturing costs. Growth/Acquisitions and Divestitures Growth, internally and through acquisitions, is an important element of our business strategy. We currently have adequate sources of liquidity for our operations. However, our ability to grow could be impacted if our cost of capital were to increase or if capital were to become more difficult to obtain. Our future success will depend somewhat on our ability to integrate new businesses that we may acquire, dispose of businesses or business segments that we may wish to divest, and redeploy proceeds from possible divestitures. International Issues Currently most of our production and sales are in the U.S. Competition from products manufactured in countries that have lower labor and other costs than the U.S. could negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, if we were to manufacture or sell more of our products in countries outside of the U.S., we would be exposed to additional economic, political, competitive, and foreign-currency exchange risks. Pension Plans At the time of our spin-off from Tenneco in 1999, we became the sponsor of Tenneco (now Pactiv) pension plans. These plans cover individuals/beneficiaries from many companies previously owned by Tenneco, but not owned by Pactiv. As a result, the total number of individuals/beneficiaries covered by these plans is much larger than would have been the case if only Pactiv personnel were participants. For this reason, the impact of the pension plans on our net income and shareholders’ equity is greater than is typically found at similarly sized companies. Changes in the following factors can have a disproportionate effect on our results compared with similarly sized companies: • Assumptions regarding the long-term rate of return on pension assets and other factors • Interest rate used to discount projected benefit obligations • Level of amortization of actuarial gains and losses • Governmental regulations relating to funding of retirement plans in the U.S. and foreign countries Funding of the qualified U.S. pension plan is currently determined by requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, under which we were not required to make contributions to the plan in 2007. On August 17, 2006, President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) into law. The PPA, which is effective for plan years beginning after December 31, 2007, significantly alters current funding requirements. Based on our current assumptions and requirements of the PPA, we do not anticipate that after-tax contributions to the plan will be significant for the foreseeable future. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 