Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, along with the other information contained in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect Bay National Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and risks that we are currently unaware of or that we do not currently consider material. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 19 If we cannot raise adequate capital we may be unable to continue operations. As previously reported we have experienced an unprecedented amount of loan charge-offs in recent periods as a result of the continuing weakness in the local and national economy, in particular in the real estate sector. These losses have caused us to fall below “well-capitalized” status, which led to our entry into the Consent Order. Among other things, the Consent Order requires us to raise capital, and we are planning to conduct an offering to raise capital in accordance with such provisions of the Consent Order. As a result of recent loan losses and the significant provisions for the allowance for credit losses, we require additional capital in order to continue operations. While as previously announced we are attempting to raise the required capital and are hopeful that our efforts will be successful, we cannot guarantee that this will be the case. If we cannot raise sufficient capital before the Bank reaches regulatory capital levels that will result in a receivership of the Bank, we will attempt a direct sale of the Company and/or the Bank or of the Bank’s assets. In any such sale, stockholders may not receive an amount for their stock that they consider adequate, and it is possible stockholders will not receive anything at all in such a transaction, particularly if we engage solely in a sale of assets. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We are required by our regulators to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources as a result of the proceeds raised from our currently contemplated stock and warrant offering will allow us to regain “well-capitalized” status and meet other applicable capital regulatory requirements, comply with our strategic plan, and otherwise satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may be required or choose to raise additional capital subsequent to the offering if we do not raise sufficient funds in the contemplated offering or otherwise for strategic, regulatory or other reasons. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital. In such case, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, us and our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write downs of assets by many financial institutions, including us. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate-related loans, continued decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions. This market turmoil has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. 20 Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, and we are limited in the amount of interest we can pay on deposits. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Further, if U.S. markets and economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our liquidity could be adversely affected. For example, even with the proceeds from our anticipated offering, further declines in the housing market could result in additional asset write downs, which could reduce our liquidity below required levels and require us to seek additional capital. There can be no guarantee, however, that such capital would be available when we require it or, if available, on favorable terms, and if we raise capital via the sale of common stock, the holdings of our current stockholders would be diluted. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a further market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Further, given that the Bank is unable to issue brokered CDs without prior approval from the FDIC, the Bank’s inability to replace maturing brokered deposits with core deposits or cash flows from loan repayments may require us to generate liquidity through other means. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand operations through internal growth and deposit gathering could be materially impaired. In addition, as a result of being less than “well capitalized” we are limited as to the interest rate we may pay on deposit accounts. Pursuant to applicable FDIC regulations, we may not pay more than .75% over the “national rate” on deposits, which is defined as the average of rates paid by insured depositary institutions and branches for which data is available. If we believe our local market rates are higher than this average, we can seek approval to charge a higher rate based on the average of local rates, but such approval is not guaranteed. In either case we are limited in our ability to aggressively seek deposits through the use of the interest rate we pay on deposits, which may limit our ability to obtain and retain deposits. Further, if we are required to pay a lower interest rate than competing institutions, we may be unable to retain some of our deposits, and these restrictions may also cause us to have difficulty obtaining new deposits as readily as we have in the past, all of which would also adversely affect our liquidity position. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, nonperforming loans (nonaccrual loans, loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing and troubled debt restructures) totaled $20.2 million, or 10.4% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, our nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $22.9 million, or 7.8% of total assets. We also had $934,139 in accruing loans that were 30 to 89 days delinquent, or 0.5% of our loan portfolio, at December 31, 2009. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce our nonperforming assets in a timely manner, that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future or that our nonperforming assets will not result in future losses. 21 Because we currently serve limited market areas, we could be more adversely affected by an economic downturn in our market areas than our larger competitors who are more geographically diverse. Currently, our primary market areas are limited to the Baltimore metropolitan area and Maryland’s Eastern Shore. Although the economic decline has not impacted the suburban Maryland and Washington D.C. suburbs as adversely as other areas of the United States, it has caused an increase in unemployment and business failures and a significant decline in property values in the metropolitan areas. As a result, if any of these areas continues to suffer an economic downturn, our business and financial condition may be more severely affected than our larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve a more geographically diverse market area, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that exist in our primary market areas. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. Government regulation could restrict our growth or cause us to incur higher costs. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by several federal and state regulatory agencies. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to investors by restricting activities such as: the payment of dividends; mergers with, or acquisitions by, other institutions; investments; loans and interest rates; interest rates paid on deposits; and the creation of branch offices. Laws and regulations could change at any time, and such changes could adversely affect our business. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, the financial sector has recently been the focus of legislative debate and government intervention, and we anticipate that additional laws and regulations may be enacted in response to the current financial crises that could have an impact on our operations. Any changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and the Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Further, given our current financial condition, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Among other things, we are subject to increased deposit insurance premiums, restrictions on employment termination payments and regulatory preapproval of new directors and senior management. Our regulators have the ability to take further action against us that could, among other things, force us to raise capital, remove board members and management, pay civil money penalties or to take or cease taking certain actions, all of which would negatively impact our ability to operate. Depending on the severity of any regulatory actions, we may not be able to continue operations. Depending on the severity of any future loan or other losses, our regulators could declare the Bank insolvent and in such event, all stockholder equity would be lost. We depend heavily on one key employee, Mr. Hugh W. Mohler, and our business would suffer if something were to happen to Mr. Mohler. Mr. Mohler is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Bay National Bank. If he were to leave for any reason, our business would suffer because he has banking experience and relationships with clients and potential clients that would not be easy to replace. In addition, because our business is relationship-driven, the loss of an employee who has primary contact with one or more of the Bank’s clients could cause the Bank to lose those clients’ business, possibly resulting in a decline in revenues. We maintain Bank Owned Life Insurance with respect to Mr. Mohler that is functionally equivalent to a key-man life insurance policy. The current benefit to Bay National under such insurance is approximately $1.5 million. As discussed below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Recent Developments – Capital Status; 22 Impact on Operations,” however, we anticipate that we may redeem the bank owned life insurance during 2010. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of collateral for repayment. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we review and evaluate, among other things, our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. We are particularly susceptible to this risk at the present time because we have experienced significant credit quality deterioration in the current recession, as reflected in recent losses and delinquency statistics. As the effects of the recent recession continue, the financial condition of our borrowers will be further strained, which could lead to higher reserve requirements. The depth and duration of the recession have also made successful outcomes on Towson mortgage workout efforts more difficult to achieve. In addition, the continuing effects of the recession could accelerate any credit deterioration or default which may normally occur as pre-recession growth in our residential real estate loan portfolio becomes outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” If the residential real estate market does not improve, the level of delinquencies and defaults may exceed historical levels as our residential real estate loans season. Were this to occur, we may be required to further increase our provision for credit losses. Material further additions to our allowance, as have occurred in 2008 and 2009, would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Systemic and pervasive loan and lease losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our stockholders could lose their entire investment. We may not be successful in implementing our strategic plan. Our success in implementing our three-year strategic plan will depend on, among other things, our ability to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals, our access to capital, our ability to reduce expenses, our ability to generate high-quality loans, our ability to increase core deposits and our ability to improve liquidity. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do any of these things. In addition, our success will depend in a large part on market interest rates and the economy in our market area, both of which are beyond our control. We may not be successful in implementing our strategic plan and, even if implemented, the plan may not be successful. We may continue to incur losses. We are a single bank holding company and our business is owning all of the outstanding stock of Bay National Bank. As a result, our operating results and financial position depend on the operating results and financial position of the Bank. Bay National Corporation incurred net losses of $5,064,643 and $16,070,308 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. While we were profitable for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the downturn in the real estate market significantly impacted 2008 and 2009 results. Although our three-year strategic plan sets forth a plan for achieving and maintaining profitability, we may not achieve profitability within the time frame anticipated by management, or ever. Many factors could adversely affect our short and long term operating performance, including the failure to fully implement the plan, unfavorable economic conditions, increased competition, loss of key personnel and government regulation. 23 Bay National Bank’s lending strategy involves risks resulting from the choice of loan portfolio. Our loan strategy emphasizes commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, such loans accounted for approximately 67.6% of our loan portfolio. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans may carry a higher degree of credit risk than do residential mortgage loans. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans can be affected by adverse conditions in local real estate markets and the economy, generally because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties as well as other factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. A commercial business loan is typically based on the borrower’s ability to repay the loan from the cash flows of the businesses. Such loans may involve risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Because commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are vulnerable to downturns in the business cycle, further economic weakness could cause more of those loans to become nonperforming. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. While we are currently decreasing the number of land development and construction loans we originate based on current market conditions, such loans accounted for approximately 13.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects. Such loans involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. Bay National Bank’s lending limit may limit our growth. The Bank is limited in the amount it can loan to a single borrower by the amount of its capital. Specifically, under current law, Bay National Bank may lend up to 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. The limit on the dollar amount we can lend, however, is significantly less than that of many of its competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of Bay National Bank’s lending limit from conducting business with us. 24 We face substantial competition which could adversely affect our ability to attract depositors and borrowers. We operate in a competitive market for financial services and face intense competition from other institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these institutions have been in business for numerous years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than us, and are able to offer certain services that we are not able to offer. If we cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth. Our ability to compete may suffer if we cannot take advantage of technology to provide banking services or if our customers fail to embrace that technology. Our business strategy relies less on customers’ access to a large branch network and more on access to technology and personal relationships. Further, the market for financial services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and tele-banking. Our ability to compete successfully may depend on the extent to which we can take advantage of technological changes and the extent to which our customers embrace technology to complete their banking transactions. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans. Interest rates are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, and as a result, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks, in part, are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable interest margin. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We are required to comply with these regulations. We expect to continue to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, particularly if smaller SEC reporting companies like us are not exempted from the auditor attestation requirement with respect to internal control over financial reporting, which requirement is currently scheduled to apply to us beginning with our 2010 annual report. These obligatory costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as the Company is not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. 25 Item 