ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General economic conditions affect demand for our products and impact our production and selling costs. Listed below are some of the factors that may impact our results and cause our performance to differ materially from the results we may project. These are in addition to general economic factors and other items discussed elsewhere in this report (for example, in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). 4 PRODUCT CHANGES AND INNOVATION We operate in a very competitive environment. Historically, product innovation and development have been key to our obtaining and maintaining market share and margins. Our future sales and profitability are partially impacted by our ability to anticipate and react more effectively than our competitors to changes in consumer demand for the types of products we sell. This requires understanding customer desires, creating products that meet those desires, and producing and selling products in a cost effective manner. CHANGES IN CUSTOMERS We must address the demands of both the consumers who ultimately purchase and use our products, and the retailers and others who sell our products to the end-users. This is necessary for both of our segments, but it is particularly important in our Consumer Products segment. Our sales and margins can be impacted by changes in our distribution channels, customer mix, and merchandising strategies. Examples include customer concentration, consolidation, and substitution of unbranded products for branded products. Although we have a diverse customer base, we have several large customers. These larger customers provide us with cost saving opportunities that may not be available with smaller, more diverse accounts. However, large customers can take actions that put pressure on our margins. Moreover, a significant downturn in the financial condition of one or more large customers could have an adverse effect on our business results. INCREASES IN PRODUCTION COSTS. Most of our products are made from plastic. Plastic-resin prices are impacted by the price of oil and natural gas, which can be volatile and affected by many factors, including overall economic activity, geopolitical situations (particularly in oil-exporting regions), natural disasters, and governmental policies and regulation. As an example, in late 2005, an industry-wide supply disruption of resin supplies occurred due to the Gulf Coast hurricanes. Our margins can be negatively impacted by the difference in timing of raw material cost increases and corresponding product selling price increases. Similarly, changes in costs of labor, utilities, or transportation can affect our margins. LAWS RELATING TO USE OR MANUFACTURE OF PLASTIC PRODUCTS Changes in laws or governmental actions regarding the use of disposable plastic products, such as laws relating to recycling or re-use of plastic products, could add costs to our products. These additional costs could make our products less competitive with products made from other materials. Similarly, changes in laws regarding air emissions could increase our manufacturing costs. GROWTH/ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES Growth, internally or through acquisitions, is an important element of our business strategy. We currently have adequate sources of liquidity for our operations. However, our ability to grow could be impacted if our cost of capital increases or if capital becomes more difficult to obtain. Our success will depend somewhat on our ability to integrate new businesses that we may acquire; dispose of businesses or business segments that we may wish to divest; and re-deploy proceeds from any divestiture. INTERNATIONAL ISSUES Currently most of our production and sales are in the United States. Competition from products manufactured in countries that have lower labor and other costs than the U.S. could negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, if we manufacture or sell more of our products in countries outside of the U.S., 5 we will be subject to additional risks, such as those related to economic, political, competitive, and foreign currency considerations in those other countries. PENSION PLAN At the time of our spin-off from Tenneco in 1999, we became the sponsor of the Tenneco (now Pactiv) pension plans. These plans cover individuals/beneficiaries from many companies previously owned by Tenneco, but not owned by Pactiv. As a result, the total number of individuals/beneficiaries covered by these plans is much larger than would have been the case if only Pactiv personnel were participants. For this reason, the impact of the pension plans on our net income and shareholders' equity is greater than is typically found at similarly sized companies. Changes in the following factors can have a disproportionate effect on our results compared with similarly sized companies, or companies with no pension plan: - Assumptions regarding the long-term rate of return on pension assets and other factors - Interest rate used to discount projected benefit obligations - Level of amortization of actuarial gains and losses - Governmental regulations relating to funding of retirement plans in the U.S. and foreign countries Under U.S. pension plan funding regulations in effect at December 31, 2005, and based on long-term projections, we do not expect to be required to contribute cash to our U.S. qualified pension plan through at least 2014. Currently both houses of the U.S. Congress have drafted legislation that could change U.S. funding regulations. We have reviewed the proposed legislation and do not believe it will significantly impact us. However, future funding of our plan will depend on the actual changes, if any, in current regulations that are enacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 