D. Risk Factors. The occurrence of any of the following risks could hurt our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our shares and the ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Other risks and uncertainties not now known to us or that we think are immaterial may also impair our business. MAJOR SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE VENDORS MAY INCORPORATE ANTI-VIRUS PROTECTION IN THEIR PRODUCT OFFERINGS, WHICH COULD RENDER OUR PRODUCTS OBSOLETE OR UNMARKETABLE. Major vendors of operating system software and other software such as firewall or e-mail software or computer hardware may decide to enhance or bundle their products with their other products to include anti-virus functions. These companies may offer anti-virus protection as a standard feature in their products, at minimal or no additional cost to customers. This could render our products obsolete or unmarketable, particularly if anti-virus products offered by these vendors were comparable or superior to our products. In addition, even if these vendors’ anti-virus products offered fewer functions than our products, or were less effective in detecting and cleaning virus-infected files, customers could still choose them over our products due to lower cost or for any other reasons. Microsoft Corp., a major operating system vendor, has acquired some security vendors such as GeCAD Software Srl., an anti-virus software vendor in Romania. Microsoft Corp. announced that they would provide anti-virus products or services such as named “Windows OneCare™” or “Client Protection” in 2006. At this time, we do not know the details of those services or products, but if in fact Microsoft launches those products or services, and/or, if anti-virus functions were to be included in its operating system products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 3 - BECAUSE WE GENERATE SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR SALES FROM A SINGLE PRODUCT LINE, WE ARE VULNERABLE TO DECREASED DEMAND FOR SUCH PRODUCTS. Unlike software companies with diversified product lines, we derive substantially all of our net sales from licensing and selling anti-virus software products. Although we have begun to offer more comprehensive network and internet security and management software and services, we expect anti-virus products to continue to account for the largest portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. If the demand for, or the prices of, anti-virus products drop as a result of competition, technological changes or other factors such as lower growth or a contraction in the worldwide anti-virus software market, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. DETERIORATION IN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH SOFTBANK BB CORP. COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. We depend on our relationship with SOFTBANK BB (formerly SOFTBANK COMMERCE CORP.), which has played an instrumental role in the development of our business in Japan. SOFTBANK BB also has close relationships with many resellers and systems integrators through which we sell our anti-virus software to corporate end users in Japan. An adverse change in our relationship with SOFTBANK BB would result in decreased sales to SOFTBANK BB and could disrupt our relationship with many resellers of our products. This could make it difficult for us to market our products in Japan. Sales to SOFTBANK BB totaled approximately (Yen)9.2 billion, or 19.1%, of our net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately (Yen)10.4 billion, or 16.8%, of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and approximately (Yen)10.6 billion, or 14.5%, of our net sales in fiscal 2005. Because of our dependence on SOFTBANK BB, the price of shares and ADSs could fall as a result of adverse events affecting SOFTBANK BB, even if the events do not relate directly to us. OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME OBSOLETE BECAUSE RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE REGULARLY OCCURS IN THE ANTI-VIRUS SOFTWARE MARKET. The anti-virus software market is characterized by: • rapid technological change; • the proliferation of new and changing computer viruses; • frequent product introductions and updates; and • changing customer needs. These characteristics of our market create significant risks and uncertainties for our business success. For example, our competitors might introduce anti-virus products that are technologically superior to our products. Additionally, new software operating system, network system or anti-virus software industry standards could emerge. Emerging trends in these systems and standards currently include applications distributed over the Internet and the use of a Web browser to access client-server systems. Our existing products might be incompatible with some or all of such standards. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer unless we are able to respond quickly and effectively to these developments. OUR HARDWARE-BASED PRODUCTS FACE MANUFACTURING AND INVENTORY RISKS. We rely on a small number of third parties to manufacture some of our hardware-based products, such as the Trend Micro Network VirusWall described in Item 4.B. We expect our reliance on third-party manufacturers to become more important as the number of our hardware-based products increases. Reliance on third-party manufacturers involves a number of risks, including a lack of control over the manufacturing process and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate capacity. If any of our third-party manufacturers cannot or will not manufacture our products in required volumes in compliance with environmental and other regulations in the markets we serve, on a cost-effective basis, in a timely manner, or at all, we will have to secure additional manufacturing capacity. The unexpected loss of any of our manufacturers could disrupt our business. Furthermore, our hardware-based products contain critical components supplied by a single or a limited number of third parties. Any significant shortage of components or the failure of the third-party supplier to maintain or enhance these products could lead to cancellation of customer orders or delays in the placement of orders and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. - 4 - WE MAY NOT GENERATE EXPECTED RESULTS IN STRATEGIC ALLIANCES Because we are mainly focusing our business on the field of anti-virus software and do not offer other security products such as firewalls, we actively pursue strategic alliances with other companies that allow us to provide customers with integrated or other new products and services derived from the alliances. In fiscal year 2004, we began to provide a third party URL filtering solution and have signed contracts with Cisco Systems to integrate network worm and virus outbreak prevention services with Cisco’s products and services. To launch and provide such products and services, we may invest substantial cash and other resources in product developments, marketing promotions and support and maintenance activities. However we may not earn revenue successfully from alliances despite our efforts, and such alliance may be terminated or dissolved by various causes before generating revenue. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO INCREASE OUR MARKET SHARE IN THE U.S. AND EUROPEAN MARKETS BECAUSE OUR COMPETITORS ARE MORE ESTABLISHED THAN WE ARE IN THESE MARKETS. We believe that our share of the anti-virus software market in the U.S. and Europe is significantly smaller relative to the market shares of our principal competitors, despite the growth of our sales in these markets in fiscal 2004 and 2005. Because our competitors are already well-established in these key markets and have greater financial and other resources and brand recognition, we may not be able to compete effectively for market share. If this happens, we may not be able to increase sales or our market share in these markets, which could materially hurt the prospects for growth in our business. Some of our major competitors have the following advantages over us in the U.S. and European markets: • greater name recognition; • more diversified product lines; • larger customer bases; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. As a result, as compared to us, our competitors may be able to: • better withstand downturns in the anti-virus software market and in the computer software market in general; • adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements; or • more effectively and profitably market, sell and support their products. WE MAY SUFFER A LOSS OF SALES AND MARKET SHARE IN OUR CORE JAPANSE MARKET IF OUR COMPETITORS ACHIEVE SUCCESS IN JAPAN. Our major competitors, McAfee, Inc. and Symantec Corporation, are active in the Japanese anti-virus software market and have allocated significant resources to achieve success in the Japanese anti-virus software market. Although these competitors currently have smaller shares of the Japanese market than us, each has significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Additionally, competition in our core Japanese market could intensify in the future if other competitors emerge. As a result of our competitors’ efforts, we may not be able to maintain our current leading market position in Japan in the future. Also, in order to respond effectively to increased competition, we may be required to devote more of our product development, marketing and other resources to the Japanese market, which could limit our ability to grow in other markets. A material loss of sales and market share in Japan as a result of our competitors’ success could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. BECAUSE WE MAY ACQUIRE COMPANIES TO GROW OUR BUSINESS, FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY REDUCE OUR EARNINGS AND RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS IN OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. In a rapidly changing industry, we occasionally review acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, we may seek to expand our business through acquisitions. Unlike some of our major competitors, we have limited experience in acquiring existing businesses. Future acquisitions could result in numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • our inability to retain customers, suppliers and other important business relationships of an acquired business; • difficulties in integrating an acquired company into Trend Micro, including the acquired company’s operations, personnel, products and information systems; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; and • adverse effects on our results of operations from acquisition-related charges, impairment of goodwill and purchased technology and possible recognition of impairment charge. If we make such an acquisition using our stock, our current shareholders’ ownership interests will be diluted. Any of these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 5 - For example, in 2000, we acquired ipTrend to start a new business selling a Linux based remotely managed server appliance solution to small and medium sized companies. However, ipTrend performed poorly and was liquidated in December 2001. Due to the liquidation of ipTrend, (Yen) 2.3 billion was booked as goodwill write-off in 2001. IF HACKERS GAIN UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO OUR SYSTEMS, WE COULD SUFFER DISRUPTIONS IN OUR BUSINESS AND LONG-TERM DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION. We may be more susceptible to problems caused by hackers than other software companies. As an anti-virus software company that delivers virus protection products over the Internet, hackers specifically target us in order to cause us to transmit computer viruses or interrupt the delivery of our anti-virus software monitoring and security services over the internet which could result in further interruptions. We could suffer substantial disruptions in our business and material damage to our reputation which could in turn result in a significant loss of our customers and other important business relationships. We could also incur costs for public relations efforts following attacks by hackers. Hacker activities could also force us to incur substantial costs to fix technical problems or result in hackers gaining access to our proprietary information. WE FACE NEW RISKS RELATED TO OUR ANTI-SPAM AND ANTI-SPYWARE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS. Our anti-spam and anti-spyware products may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted “spam” or “potentially unwanted programs,” or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as “spam” emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. Parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as “spammers” or spyware, or for interfering with their business. In addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted “spam” or “potentially unwanted programs” may reduce the adoption of these products. WE MUST EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH. Our business has grown rapidly. This growth has placed, and any future growth would continue to place, a significant strain on our limited personnel, management and other resources. Our ability to manage any future growth in our business will require us to: • attract, train, retain, motivate and manage new employees successfully; • effectively integrate new employees into our operations; and • continue to improve our operational, financial, management and information systems and controls. If we continue to grow, our management systems currently in place may be inadequate or we may not be able to effectively manage our growth. In particular, we may be unable to: • provide effective customer service; • develop and deliver products in a timely manner; • implement effective financial reporting and control systems; and • exploit new market opportunities and effectively respond to competitive pressures. WE SELL OUR PRODUCTS THROUGH INTERMEDIARIES WHO MAY NOT VIGOROUSLY MARKET OUR PRODUCTS, OR MAY RETURN OUR PRODUCTS. We market substantially all of our products to end users through intermediaries, including distributors, resellers and value-added resellers. Our distributors sell other products that are complementary to, or compete with, our products. While we encourage our distributors to focus on our products, these distributors may give greater priority to products of other suppliers, including competitors’. They may also return the products to us under certain circumstances. OUR CUSTOMERS MAY CANCEL OR DELAY THEIR PURCHASES OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our products may be considered to be capital purchases by certain enterprise customers. Capital purchases are often uncertain and, therefore, are canceled or delayed if the customer experiences a downturn in its business prospects or as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. Any cancellation or delay could adversely affect our results of operations. - 6 - WEAK FINANCIAL CONDITIONS OF SOME OF OUR DISTRIBUTORS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Some of our distributors are experiencing financial difficulties worldwide, which may adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. We regularly review the collectibility and creditworthiness of our distributors to determine an appropriate allowance for doubtful receivables. Our uncollectible accounts could exceed our current or future allowance for doubtful receivables, which would adversely impact our operating results. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY SUFFER IF WE ARE REQUIRED TO PAY SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF PENALTY PAYMENTS PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF OUR SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS. We guarantee a certain quality of product support to our customers through our service level agreements. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, under some circumstances, we are required to make penalty payments to our customers. For example, if we fail to provide our customers a virus pattern file within two hours of our receipt of a virus from the customer, the terms of the agreement require us to make a penalty payment to the dissatisfied customer which may amount up to 100% of the initial sale price. We have established reserves based on our assumptions and estimates. However, our assumptions and estimates may be wrong and our actual total penalty payments could materially exceed our reserves and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL, WHO MAY NOT REMAIN WITH US IN THE FUTURE. We rely, and will continue to rely, on a number of key technical and management employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Eva Yi-Fen Chen. While we require our employees to sign employment agreements, our employees are generally not otherwise subject to noncompetition covenants. If any of our key employees leave, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD CAUSE THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR SHARES AND OUR ADSs TO BE VOLATILE. We believe that our quarterly financial results may fluctuate in ways that do not reflect the long-term trend of our future financial performance. It is likely that in some future quarterly periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our shares and our ADSs could fall. Factors which could cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate include: • timing of sales of our products and services due to customers’ budgetary constraints, seasonal buying patterns and our promotional activities; • new product introductions by our competitors; • significant marketing campaigns, research and development efforts, employee hiring, and other capital expenditures by us to drive the growth of our business; • changes in customer needs for anti-virus software; and • changes in economic conditions in our major markets. WEAKNESS IN THE JAPANESE ECONOMY MAY HURT OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE BECAUSE JAPAN IS OUR LARGEST MARKET. While our sales in the US and Europe have increased in recent years, we remain significantly dependent on the Japanese market. Net sales in Japan accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales in fiscal 2003, approximately 41% in fiscal 2004 and approximately 40% in fiscal 2005. In the past three years, the Japanese economy has performed poorly due to a number of factors, including weak consumer spending and lower capital investment by Japanese companies. We believe the sluggish Japanese economy has hindered growth in our net sales during most of the last three fiscal years, although it has shown signs of recovering during the last several months. Because of our dependence on the Japanese market, any deterioration in the condition of the Japanese economy could negatively impact our net sales. - 7 - FOREIGN EXCHANGE FLUCTUATIONS COULD LOWER OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BECAUSE WE EARN REVENUES DENOMINATED IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT CURRENCIES. Our reporting currency is the Japanese yen and the functional currency of each of our subsidiaries is the currency of the country in which the subsidiary is domiciled. However, a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses is denominated in currencies other than the Japanese yen, primarily the US dollar, euro and the New Taiwan dollar. As a result, appreciation or depreciation in the value of other currencies as compared to the Japanese yen could result in material transaction or translation gains or losses which could reduce our operating results. These negative effects from currency fluctuations could become more significant if we are successful in increasing our sales in markets outside of Japan. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities. BECAUSE OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS SIGNIFICANTLY ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, INFRINGEMENT OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD HURT OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends upon the development of proprietary software technology. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect proprietary rights in our software. If we are unable to establish and protect these rights, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete against us. This could limit our growth and hurt our business. At present, our U.S. consolidated subsidiary holds seven issued US patents and our Taiwan consolidated subsidiary holds four issued U.S. patents. It is possible that no additional patents will be issued to us or any of our subsidiaries. In addition, our issued patents may not prevent other companies from competing with us. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and license agreements with our customers, and limit access to our proprietary information and its distribution. However, we cannot guarantee that any of these measures will discourage others from misappropriating our technology or independently developing similar technology. PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS ASSERTED AGAINST US IN THE FUTURE COULD HURT OUR BUSINESS. Our products are designed to protect customers’ network systems and personal computers from damage caused by computer viruses. As a result, if a customer suffers damage from viruses, the customer could sue us on product liability or related grounds, claim damages for data loss or make other claims. Additionally, as viruses are constantly evolving, purchasers of our software products must regularly update the software they have purchased from us with virus protection files that we make available for download from our website. Should we fail to properly test these virus protection files and distribute a defective file, these files could cause damage to the personal computers of our customers who have downloaded a defective file. For example, a file that we distributed on April 23, 2005 for an approximately 90 minute-period caused the computers of those updating with the file to slow and, in some cases, shut down. Cases of our files damaging the computers or our customers could lead to significant damage to our reputation and customers could sue on product liability or related grounds. Furthermore, starting in 2001, we began selling hardware devices which could give rise to a higher incidence of product liability claims than we have up until now experienced. Our license agreements typically contain provisions, such as disclaimers of warranty and limitations of liability, which seek to limit our exposure to certain types of product liability claims. However, in some jurisdictions these provisions may not be enforceable on statutory, public policy or other grounds. We currently do not carry product liability insurance covering claims arising in the United States. Damage to our reputation or successful product liability or related claims brought against us could materially harm our business. OUR BUSINESS FACES THE RISK OF INTERRUPTION FROM POWER SHORTAGES, EARTHQUAKES, OUTBREAK OF BIOLOGICAL VIRUSES AND OTHER HAZARDS. We face a number of potential business interruption risks that are beyond our control. The State of California experienced intermittent power shortages in 2000, sharp increases in the cost of energy and even interruptions of service to some business customers. If power shortages continue to be a problem, our business may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we may experience natural disasters that could interrupt our business. Tokyo, where our corporate headquarter is located, is near a major earthquake fault. The impact of a major earthquake on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is not known. There is no guarantee that an earthquake would not seriously disturb our entire business operations. We are largely uninsured for losses and business disruptions caused by an earthquake and other natural disasters. In addition, many of the key countries and regions in which we operate have sustained negative economic impact from events such as the continued fear of future terrorist attacks and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Prolonged continuation of these adverse factors may hurt our results of operations and financial condition. - 8 - WE MAY HAVE TO CONSTRAIN OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES TO AVOID BEING DEEMED AN INVESTMENT COMPANY UNDER THE US INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940. In general, a company which is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not believe that we are an investment company as defined under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would be prohibited from issuing our securities in the United States and may have to terminate our U.S. listing or other sponsorship promoting a U.S. trading market for our issued securities. In order to avoid these prohibitions, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities, potentially limiting our growth and our profitability. BECAUSE OF THE INFLUENCE OF OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS, OUR OTHER SHAREHOLDERS MAY BE UNABLE TO INFLUENCE OUR BUSINESS. Our principal shareholders, including major shareholders who beneficially own more than 5% of the issued shares of our common stock and directors, beneficially owned approximately 34.4% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2005. These shareholders, if they act together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our principal shareholders may have strategic or other interests that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result, the concentration in our shareholdings may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Trend Micro, which could result in the loss of a significant financial gain to our shareholders. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE, AND INVESTORS BUYING THE SHARES OR ADSs MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL THEM AT OR ABOVE THEIR PURCHASE PRICE. Shares of our common stock are traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which is the principal market for our shares. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of high-tech companies, and internet companies in particular, have been especially volatile. Since trading in our shares commenced on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on August 17, 2000, our stock price has fluctuated between a low of (Yen) 1,440 and a high of (Yen) 9,005. Since trading in our ADSs commenced on the Nasdaq National Market on July 8, 1999, the price of our ADSs has fluctuated between a low of $12.16 and a high of $159.38. The closing price on the Tokyo Stock Exchange for our stock on May 31, 2006 was (Yen)3,840, and the closing price on the Nasdaq National Market for our ADSs on May 31, 2006 was $35.00 per ADS. The market price of our shares and ADSs is likely to fluctuate in the future. BECAUSE OF DAILY PRICE RANGE LIMITATIONS UNDER JAPANESE STOCK EXCHANGE RULES, YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL YOUR SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK AT A PARTICULAR PRICE ON ANY PARTICULAR TRADING DAY, OR AT ALL. Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchange set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. THE RIGHTS OF SMALL SHAREHOLDERS ARE LIMITED UNDER THE JAPANESE UNIT SHARE SYSTEM. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that 500 shares of our common stock constitute one “unit.” The Japanese Company Law (as defined in Item 10.B) restricts the rights of shares that do not constitute whole units. Holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote. Each ADS offered in the offering represents the right to receive one share. A holder who owns less than 500 ADSs will indirectly own less than a whole unit. Under the deposit agreement governing the rights of ADS holders, in order to withdraw any shares, an ADS holder must surrender ADRs evidencing 500 ADSs or a multiple of 500 ADSs. Each ADR will bear a legend to that effect. Under the unit share system, holders of less than a unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares. Holders of ADSs that represent other than multiples of whole units cannot withdraw the underlying shares representing less than one unit. They will, therefore, be unable, as a practical matter, to: • exercise the right to require us to purchase the underlying shares, or - 9 - • receive cash settlement in lieu of withdrawal. As result, as a holder of ADSs, you will not be able to access the Japanese markets through the withdrawal mechanism to sell shares in lots of less than one unit. AS A HOLDER OF ADSs, YOU WILL HAVE FEWER RIGHTS THAN A SHAREHOLDER HAS AND YOU WILL HAVE TO ACT THROUGH THE DEPOSITARY TO EXERCISE THOSE RIGHTS. The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay you the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine the accounting books and our records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. RIGHTS OF SHAREHOLDERS UNDER JAPANESE LAW MAY BE MORE LIMITED THAN UNDER THE LAW OF OTHER JURISDICTIONS. Our Articles of Incorporation, our Board of Directors’ regulations and the Japanese Company Law govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if we were a non-Japanese company. For example, under the Japanese Company Law, only holders of 3% or more of the issued and outstanding shares are entitled to examine our accounting books and records. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. In addition, Japanese courts may not be willing to enforce liabilities against us in actions brought in Japan which are based upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. 