ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could prevent us from achieving our business objectives and could hurt our future financial performance and the price performance of our common stock. Such risks and uncertainties also could cause our future financial condition and future financial performance to differ significantly from our current expectations, which are described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Those risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, include the following: A decline in the popularity of high-value collectibles and a resulting decrease in submissions for our services could adversely impact our business. The volume of collectibles submitted to us for authentication and grading is affected by the demand for and market value of those collectibles. As the demand for and value of collectibles increase, authentication and grading submissions, as well as requests by submitters for higher price, faster turnaround times, also increase. However, that also means that a decline in popularity and, therefore, in the value of the collectibles that we authenticate and grade would cause decreases in authentication and grading submissions and in the requests we receive for faster turnaround times and, therefore, also in our revenues and profitability. We have found, over the years, as evidenced by the reduction in our coin grading fees starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and continuing through the first half of fiscal 2013, that the popularity of collectibles can vary due to a number of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including perceived scarcity of collectibles, general consumer confidence and trends and their impact on disposable income, precious metals prices, interest rates and other general economic conditions. Our dependence on coin authentication and grading services for most of our revenues makes us vulnerable to changes in economic conditions that could adversely affect the demand for those services and our operating results. Coin authentication and grading and other coin-related services accounted for approximately 64%, 66% and 66% of our total net revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our modern coin authentication and grading revenues represented approximately 20% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013. We believe that the principal factors that can lead to fluctuations in coin grading submissions include:(i) economic downturns which can result in a decline in consumer and business confidence and disposable income and, therefore, the willingness of dealers and collectors to buy collectible coins, (ii) the performance of the stock and bond markets, the level of interest rates and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar and in the value of precious metals, which can lead investors to shift some of their investments between stocks and bonds, on the one hand, and precious metals, on the other; and (iii) in the case of modern coin submissions, increases or reductions in the marketing activities or programs that are conducted by the U.S. Mint and by dealers who specialize in selling modern coins. This lack of diversity in our sources of revenues and our dependence on coin authentication and grading submissions for a majority of our net revenues make us more vulnerable to these conditions, which could result in reductions in our total net revenues and gross margin and, therefore, hurt our operating results. Moreover, if current economic conditions in the United States continue substantially unchanged for an extended period of time, our dependence on coin authentication and grading services for our revenues could increase, because the prices that dealers and collectors can realize on sales of trading cards generally are significantly lower than the prices they are able to realize on sales of collectible coins, making it more difficult during periods of adverse economic conditions, for trading card collectors to afford or justify incurring the costs of obtaining independent authentication and grading services. In addition, our coin business is expanding into overseas markets, which, over time, is expected to make a meaningful contribution to total revenues, thereby increasing our reliance on the coin market. Declines in general economic conditions could result in decreased demand for our services, which could adversely affect our operating results. The availability of discretionary or disposable income and the confidence of collectors and dealers about future economic conditions are important factors that can affect the willingness and ability of collectors and consumers to purchase, and the prices that they are willing to pay for, high-value collectibles. Additionally, declines in the confidence and reductions in the cash flows of, and reductions in credit that is available to collectibles dealers, can adversely affect their ability to purchase high-value collectibles and to sell collectibles that may have declined in value due to adverse changes in economic conditions of this nature. Declines in purchases and sales, and in the values of collectibles usually result, in turn, in declines in the use of authentication and grading services, as such services are most often used in conjunction with and to facilitate collectibles sale and purchase transactions. As a result, economic uncertainties, downturns and recessions can and do adversely affect our operating results by (i) reducing the frequency with which collectibles dealers and collectors submit their coins, trading cards and other collectibles for authentication and grading including, in particular, modern coins and trading cards, primarily because authentication and grading fees are relatively high in relation to the value of such collectibles; (ii) causing collectibles dealers and collectors to request longer turnaround times with respect to the collectibles they submit to us for grading, which would reduce our revenues, gross profit margin and operating results; and (iii) adversely affecting the ability of customers to pay outstanding accounts receivable on a timely basis. 14 Temporary popularity of some collectibles may result in short-term increases, followed by decreases, in the volume of submissions for our services, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate. Temporary consumer popularity or “fads” among collectors, or the popularity of certain marketing programs, either by the U.S. Mint or by dealers or distributors of collectibles, may lead to short-term or temporary increases, followed by decreases in the volume and in the average service fees earned on collectibles that we authenticate and grade. Trends of this nature may result in significant period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results and could result in declines in our net revenues and profitability, not only because of a resulting decline in the volume of authenticating and grading submissions, but also because such trends could lead to increased price competition, which could require us to reduce our authentication and grading fees in order to maintain market share. Our top five customers account for approximately 14% of our total net revenues. During the year ended June 30, 2013, five of our customers accounted, in the aggregate, for approximately 14% of our total net revenues. As a result, the loss of any of those customers, each of which is a collectibles dealer, or a decrease in the volume of grading submissions by any of them, could cause our net revenues to decline and, therefore, could harm our operating results. Moreover, same-day on-site authentication and grading submissions at trade shows, on which we realize higher margins than on other submissions, represent a significant portion of the authentication and grading submissions we have received from certain of these customers. Consequently, a material decline in trade show attendance or submissions by these customers would adversely affect, not only our revenues, but also our gross margin and, therefore, our operating results in the future. There are risks associated with new or expanded service offerings and geographic expansion, with which we have little experience. On an ongoing basis, we seek to introduce new services that we might offer to our existing authentication and grading customers as a means of increasing our net revenues and profitability. In addition, we began offering and providing coin authentication and grading services in Paris, France and Hong Kong in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively, and we plan to begin providing such services in China in fiscal 2014. Those new services and our international operations, however, may not meet our expectations and may prove to be unprofitable and negatively impact our operating results. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. If we are successful in growing our coin authentication and grading businesses in foreign markets, we could face risks that might adversely affect, possibly materially, our future financial performance. Those risks include the following: • potential difficulties in complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations, which could increase our costs of doing business internationally and could expose us to possible governmental or legal action in the foreign countries where we conduct business; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • differences in intellectual property protections; • potentially adverse tax consequences due to overlapping or differing tax structures; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • risks associated with operating a business in a potentially unstable political climate. 15 We invoice our overseas customers for our coin authentication and grading services in both the local foreign currency in the country in which the business operates, or in the case of Hong Kong, in U.S. dollars. Through June 30, 2013, the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies on our financial results has been immaterial. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our performance is greatly dependent on the performance of our senior management and certain other key employees. As a result, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key management and business development employees could harm our business. Some of our executive officers and key employees are experts in the collectibles markets and have industry-wide reputations for authentication and grading of collectibles. In particular, the loss of David G. Hall, our President, could have a negative effect on our reputation for expertise in the collectible coin market and could lead to a reduction in coin authentication and grading submissions to us. We are dependent on our collectibles experts. In certain of our markets, there are a limited number of individuals who have the expertise to authenticate and grade collectibles, and competition for available collectibles experts is intense. Accordingly, our business and our growth initiatives are heavily dependent on our ability (i) to retain our existing collectibles experts, who have developed relatively unique skills and enjoy a reputation for being experts within the collectibles markets, and (ii) to implement personnel programs that will enable us to add collectibles experts, as necessary, both in the United States and overseas to grow our business and offset employee turnover that can occur from time to time. If we are not successful in retaining our existing collectibles experts or in hiring and training new collectibles experts, this could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, some of our experts could leave our Company to join a competitor or start a competing business. We could suffer losses on authentication and grading warranties. In general, we issue an authenticity or grading warranty for coins and trading cards that we authenticate or grade. Those warranties provide that: § if a coin or trading card that we authenticated and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases is later determined not to have been genuine, we would have to purchase the collectible at its current market value; and § if a coin or trading card that we graded and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases later receives a lower grade upon resubmission to us for grading, we would be obligated either to purchase the collectible at the current market value or to pay the difference in its value at its original grade, as compared to its value at the lower grade. We have no insurance coverage for claims made under these warranties, and therefore we maintain reserves for such warranty claims based on historical experience. However, there is no assurance that these warranty reserves will prove to be adequate, and as we expand our services in overseas markets, we may incur higher warranty claims than we have experienced in previous years. If our warranty reserves prove to be inadequate, our gross margin and operating results could be harmed. As a result, we monitor the adequacy of our warranty reserves on an ongoing basis. For example, during 2008, we unexpectedly received certain coin grading warranty claims that were significant when compared to our prior warranty claims experience. As a result, we recognized an additional expense in 2008 to provide for those claims. We also increased our warranty accrual rate to reflect this higher warranty claims experience. Those actions contributed to an increase in our costs of sales and, therefore, reduced our operating income and earnings in fiscal 2008. 16 Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. Although there are few major competitors in the collectibles authentication and grading markets in which we currently operate, competition in these markets is, nevertheless, intense. Increased competition in our collectibles markets could adversely affect our pricing and profit margins and our ability to achieve further growth, and we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors in our collectibles markets. Also, if we were to enter into new collectibles markets, it is likely we would face intense competition from competitors in those markets who are likely to have greater brand name recognition and long-term relationships with collectibles dealers and individual collectors in those markets than we will have. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and could cause us to incur losses or impairment charges in those markets and damage our financial condition. The subtenant for one of our spaces in New York may not fulfill its obligations under the sublease agreement, thereby, increasing our net obligations. The Company has sublet one of its facilities in New York City that had formerly been occupied by our discontinued jewelry businesses. Should the subtenant not fulfill its rental obligations to us under the sublease, which are payable over the lease term through 2015, it would adversely affect the cash used by discontinued operations and increase the losses from discontinued operations we incur in future periods. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends at current levels. The Company’s current policy is to pay cash dividends to stockholders at $0.325 per share per quarter. However, the continued payment of cash dividends is subject to a number of factors, including changes in market and financial conditions and the cash requirements of our business (including the payment of federal income taxes, as the Company no longer has net operating losses for federal income tax purposes). Therefore, there is no assurance that the amount of the current quarterly cash dividend will not be reduced or the payment of cash dividends will not be suspended or discontinued by the Board of Directors. See “MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES”─Dividends in Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report. Our reliance on two suppliers for principally all of our “tamper-evident,” clear plastic coin and trading card holders exposes us to potential supply and quality problems. We place all of the coins and trading cards that we authenticate and grade, in tamper-evident, clear plastic holders. In addition, we incorporate security features into the holders to mitigate the risk of counterfeits. In order to take advantage of volume-pricing discounts, we purchase substantially all of those holders, on a purchase order basis, from two principal suppliers. For our highest volume most critical plastic part, we have chosen to split the supply of this part between our two supplies. For our other parts, we have one or the other of these suppliers manufacture the part. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial portion of those plastic holders exposes us to the potential for delays in our ability to deliver timely authentication and grading services in the event that one of the suppliers was to terminate its services to us or encounter financial or production problems. If, in such an event, we were unable to obtain replacement holders in a relatively short period of time, we could lose customer orders, or incur additional production costs. To mitigate this risk, the Company (i) owns the dies used to manufacture the parts, (ii) has increased its inventory of holders, which will give us more time to arrange production in the event of a termination of or interruption in service from either of our existing suppliers. However, if the replacement holders obtained from other suppliers are not of comparable quality to those produced by our existing suppliers, or counterfeit holders were manufactured by other suppliers, we could be exposed to additional warranty claims because tampering with those holders may not be as readily detectible. These occurrences could cause a decline in our net revenues and increases in our costs of sales which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer systems and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks, and we are vulnerable to system failure due to a lack of redundant systems at another location. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer systems that we use in our authentication and grading operations and to maintain our websites against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events. In this regard, Southern California, where we are located and our computer systems are housed, is particularly vulnerable to earthquakes and fires that could result in damage to our computer systems. We do not have redundant computer systems at any locations that are remote from Southern California. Any damage to or failure of our computer systems could cause an interruption in our services that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 In addition, our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure from damage that could occur from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the technology that we employ in our operations. Computer break-ins and security breaches also could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which could cause us to incur significant liability and possibly also damage our reputation. Other disruptions due to problems on the Internet or actions of Internet users could make it difficult for our customers to access our websites. In addition, difficulties encountered during planned system upgrades or re-implementations could lead to disruptions of our business. Problems of this nature could adversely affect our business and operating results, and security breaches that would adversely affect the privacy of customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their business relationships with us. Although we intend to continue to implement and upgrade sophisticated technology to prevent such disruptions and damage, there is no assurance that those measures will prove to be adequate or successful. We rely on third parties for various Internet and processing services. Our operations depend on a number of third parties for Internet access and delivery services. We have limited control over these third parties and no long-term relationships with any of them. For example, we do not own a gateway onto the Internet, but, instead, rely on Internet service providers to connect our website to the Internet. Should the third parties that we rely on for Internet access or delivery services be unable to serve our needs for a sustained time period as a result of a strike, natural disaster or for any other reason, our revenues and business could be harmed. Acquisitions, the commencement of new businesses and expansion into overseas markets, present risks, and we may be unable to achieve our financial and strategic goals related to those activities. There may be opportunities that present themselves to acquire existing businesses, commence new businesses or expand our geographic reach through overseas expansion that would give us the opportunity to increase our revenues and our earnings. The purchase or commencement of a new business or expanding overseas, however, presents a number of risks and uncertainties, including (i) difficulties in integrating a new business or a new location into our existing operations, as a result of which we may incur increased operating costs that can adversely affect our operating results; (ii) the risk that our current and planned facilities, computer systems and personnel and controls will not be adequate to support our expanded operations; (iii) the diversion of management time and capital resources from our existing businesses, which could adversely affect the performance and our operating results; (iv) dependence on key management personnel of the acquired or newly started businesses or at the new geographic locations and the risk that we will be unable to integrate or retain such personnel; and (v) the risk that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or of the commencement of any new business or overseas location may not be realized or changes we make to an acquired business may harm the performance of that business, in which event we will not be able to achieve an acceptable return or we may incur losses on our investment. We depend on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe that our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual and other proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate to prevent imitation of our services or products or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may develop similar trade secrets or other intellectual property independently or assert rights in our intellectual and other proprietary rights that could lead them to seek to block sales of our services based on allegations that use of some of our marks or other intellectual property constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights. 18 Our unregistered trademarks could conflict with trademarks of others. We have not conducted an exhaustive search of possible prior users of our unregistered trademarks or service marks, including Coin Universe and Collectors.com. Therefore, it is possible that our use of some of these trademarks or service marks may conflict with the rights of others. As a result, we could face litigation or lose the use of some of these trademarks or service marks, which could have an adverse effect on our name recognition and result in a decrease in our revenues and an increase in our expenses. The imposition of government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. With the exception of state laws applicable to autograph authentication, the collectible coin and other high-value collectibles markets are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation. However, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles and, therefore, also to a decline in the volume of coins, trading cards and other collectibles that are submitted to us for authentication and grading. The market for our shares is limited, which may adversely affect the trading value and liquidity of our common stock. Affiliates of the Company own a total of approximately 2,736,000 shares (or about 32% of the 8,508,341 shares that were outstanding at June 30, 2013) which are not included in our public float. As a result, the trading volume of our shares is relatively low at a daily average of approximately 57,000 shares over the 90 days ended June 30, 2013, which reduces the liquidity of our shares, making it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares if the need to do so arises. These factors may depress, and make it more difficult to achieve increases in, the trading price of our shares. If our quarterly results are below market expectations, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our future financial results difficult and uncertain. These factors include: § increases or decreases in the numbers and mix of collectibles graded from period to period; § changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for our authentication and grading services, such as a decline in the popularity of certain collectibles and volatility in the prices of gold and other precious metals; § changes in economic conditions that reduce the availability of disposable income and may cause collectors and collectibles dealers to reduce their purchases of collectibles, which could result in declines in the demand for the services we provide; and § the actions of our competitors. If, as a result of these or other conditions or factors, our quarterly operating results fall below market expectations, some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced declines in the trading price of their shares due to events of this nature have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, thus harming our business. 19 Provisions in our charter documents or in Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult or delay a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders: § our board of directors has the authority to issue additional common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; § there are limitations on who can call special meetings of our stockholders; § stockholders may not take action by written consent; and § In addition, provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our stock incentive plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Moreover, the fact that our affiliates own more than 30% of our outstanding shares may deter third parties from seeking to acquire control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 