ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. In addition to other information contained in this report, readers should carefully consider the following cautionary statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS OUR SUBSTANTIAL LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We have, and will continue to have substantial indebtedness. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $55.0 million principal value of total senior debt, and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 our ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense was 2.1:1 and our ratio of total senior debt to Adjusted EBITDA was 6.1:1. Our indebtedness could be increased by an additional $10.0 million under a future credit facility, which will have priority over senior debt with respect to security interests in the collateral. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: o reducing our ability to obtain additional financing; o reducing our cash flow; o placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt or greater financial resources; 20 o hindering our flexibility in dealing with changes in our business and the industry; and o making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments. DESPITE EXISTING DEBT LEVELS, WE MAY STILL BE ABLE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIALLY MORE DEBT, WHICH WOULD INCREASE THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LEVERAGE. We may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future, including debt under a future credit facility, which will have priority over senior debt with respect to security interests in the collateral, and debt resulting from the issuance of additional notes. Although the terms of the senior debt and any future credit facility may limit our ability to incur additional debt, such terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances. The incurrence of additional debt could adversely impact our ability to service payments on senior debt. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CASH NEEDED TO PAY INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL AMOUNTS ON OUR DEBT. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash in the future to service our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. The indentures currently in place and any future credit facility will limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict use of the proceeds from any such sale. Therefore, even if forced to do so, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our debt obligations. WE FACE NUMEROUS UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATING OUR ECONOMICALLY RECOVERABLE COAL RESERVES, AND INACCURACIES IN OUR ESTIMATES COULD RESULT IN LOWER THAN EXPECTED REVENUES, HIGHER THAN EXPECTED COSTS OR DECREASED PROFITABILITY. We estimate that as of December 31, 2005, we control approximately 80.8 million tons of proven and probable in-place reserves, including approximately 38.5 million tons of reserves that are recoverable at this time. We base our reserves estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and aspects of which have been reviewed by outside firms. Our estimates of our proven and probable reserves and our recoverable reserves, as well as the Btu or sulfur content of our reserves, may be revised and updated to reflect the resolution of uncertainties and assumptions, the production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. In January 2006, we engaged Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc., an independent mining engineering firm, to evaluate our reserves. Their evaluation efforts are ongoing and they have not yet submitted their final report. Future estimates of our reserves, including estimates prepared by Marshall Miller, could be materially different from current estimates. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results such as: o geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from experience in current operations; o historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; o the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies; and 21 o assumptions concerning coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise tax, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. As a result, the reserve estimates set forth in this report may differ materially from our actual reserves. Inaccuracies in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, or decreased profitability. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS UPON OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE ACQUIRING AND DEVELOPING COAL RESERVES THAT ARE ECONOMICALLY RECOVERABLE AND TO RAISE THE CAPITAL NECESSARY TO FUND OUR EXPANSION. Our recoverable reserves will decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of the coal deposits under our mineral rights. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our coal deposits as efficiently as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities and acquiring properties containing economically recoverable coal deposits. In addition, we must also generate enough capital, either through our operations or through outside financing, to mine these additional reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our coal deposits base through acquisitions of other mineral rights, leases, or producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. Our ability to further expand our operations may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital, either through cash flows generated from operations, or financing activities, or both. Mining coal in Central Appalachia can present special difficulties. Characteristics of the land and permitting process in Central Appalachia, where all of our mines are located, may adversely affect our mining operations, our costs and the ability of our customers to use the coal that we mine. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in the Powder River Basin, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time-consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect our mining operations and costs, and our customers' abilities to use the coal we mine. OUR ABILITY TO IMPLEMENT OUR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT AND EXPLORATION PROJECTS IS DEPENDENT ON MANY FACTORS, INCLUDING THE ABILITY TO RECEIVE VARIOUS GOVERNMENT PERMITS. Our planned development and exploration projects and acquisition activities may not result in the acquisition of significant additional coal deposits and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. For example, we may not be successful in acquiring contiguous properties that will leverage our existing facilities. In addition, in order to develop our coal deposits, we must receive various governmental permits. Before a mining permit is issued on a particular parcel, interested parties are eligible to file petitions to declare the land unsuitable for mining. For example, on November 10, 2005, two environmental groups filed a petition to halt the expansion of surface mining activities on the New River Tract and surrounding areas. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the permits necessary for us to expand our operations. 22 DEFECTS IN TITLE OR LOSS OF ANY LEASEHOLD INTERESTS IN OUR PROPERTIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MINE THESE PROPERTIES. We conduct, or plan to conduct, a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title could delay the exploration and development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property and could increase our costs. In addition, if we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining. Some leases have minimum production requirements or require us to commence mining in a specified term to retain the lease. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. DUE TO VARIABILITY IN COAL PRICES AND IN OUR COST OF PRODUCING COAL, AS WELL AS CERTAIN PROVISIONS IN OUR LONG TERM CONTRACTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL COAL AT A PROFIT. We typically sell our coal for a specified tonnage amount and at a negotiated price pursuant to short-term and long-term contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 100% of the coal we produced was sold under long-term contracts. Price adjustment, "price reopener" and other similar provisions in long-term supply agreements may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Two of our long-term contracts, representing 36% of our sales in the year ended December 31, 2005 and which expire at the end of 2007 and 2008, contain provisions allowing the purchase price to be renegotiated or adjusted based on market prices at the time at periodic intervals. Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price would result in decreased revenues and lower our gross margins. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, termination of the contracts. Consequently, due to the risks mentioned above with respect to long-term supply agreements, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from these sales commitments. In addition, we may not be able to successfully convert these sales commitments into long-term supply agreements. THE COAL INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY CYCLICAL, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO FLUCTUATIONS IN PRICES FOR OUR COAL. We are exposed to swings in the demand for coal, which has an impact on the prices for our coal. The demand for coal products and, thus, the financial condition and results of operations of companies in the coal industry, including us, are generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the world economy and the domestic and international demand for energy. In recent years, the price of coal has been at historically high levels, but these price levels may not continue. Any material decrease in demand for coal could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. WE DEPEND HEAVILY ON A SMALL NUMBER OF LARGE CUSTOMERS, THE LOSS OF ANY OF WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 71% of our coal revenues from sales to our three largest customers. At December 31, 2005, we had coal supply agreements with these customers that expire at various times through 2008. When these agreements expire, we may not be 23 successful at renegotiating them and these customers may not continue to purchase coal from us pursuant to long-term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION FROM ENTITIES WITH GREATER RESOURCES COULD RESULT IN OUR FAILURE. We operate in a highly competitive industry with national and international energy resources companies. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors' use of their substantially greater resources could overwhelm our efforts to operate successfully and could cause our failure. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR LIMITED REVENUES WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO OPERATE PROFITABLY, OR THAT WE WILL GENERATE GREATER REVENUES IN THE FUTURE. We were formed to create a regional coal producer in Tennessee. We had no revenues from inception until the third quarter 2003 when we began mining operations. We are not profitable and have a limited operating history. We must be regarded as a risky venture with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, risks and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. Our coal sales for calendar 2005 were approximately $65.3 million. There is no assurance that we can achieve greater sales or generate profitable sales. We expect that many coal producers could produce and sell coal at cheaper prices per ton than our production cost rates, which could adversely affect our revenues and profits, if any. There is no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. There is no assurance that we will generate continued revenues or any profits, or that the market price of our common stock will be increased thereby. IF WE NEED TO SELL OR ISSUE ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OR ASSUME ADDITIONAL DEBT TO FINANCE FUTURE GROWTH, OUR SHAREHOLDERS' OWNERSHIP COULD BE DILUTED OR OUR EARNINGS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth, or by acquiring complementary businesses, or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers. In order to do so or to fund our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our shareholders' stock percentage ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company and this could negatively impact our results of operations. OUR INABILITY TO DIVERSIFY OUR OPERATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO ECONOMIC FLUCTUATIONS WITHIN OUR INDUSTRY. Our limited financial resources reduce the likelihood that we will be able to diversify our operations. Our probable inability to diversify our activities into more than one business area will subject us to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with our operations. CERTAIN PROVISIONS IN OUR SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN THE FUTURE. In addition to cash flows generated from operations, we may need to raise capital in the future through the issuance of securities. In order to issue securities that rank senior to our Series A convertible preferred stock in terms of liquidation preference, redemption rights or dividend rights, we must obtain the affirmative consent of holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of our Series A convertible 24 preferred stock. If we are unable to obtain the consent of these holders in connection with future financings, we may be unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. THE LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We are heavily dependent upon the skills, talents, and abilities of our executive officers and board of directors to implement our business plan. Given the intense competition for qualified management personnel in our industry, the loss of the services of any key management personnel may significantly and detrimentally affect our business and prospects. We may not be able to retain some or all of our key management personnel, and even if replaceable, it may be time consuming and costly to recruit qualified replacement personnel. OUR DIRECTOR AND OFFICER INDEMNIFICATION POLICIES IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FLORIDA LAW COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL UN-RECOUPABLE EXPENDITURES AND REDUCED REMEDIES AGAINST DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS. Florida Revised Statutes provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney's fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. We will also bear the expenses of such litigation for any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person's promise to repay us such amounts, if it is ultimately determined that such person was not entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we will be unable to recoup. Florida Revised Statutes exclude personal liability of our directors to us and our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty except in certain specified circumstances. Accordingly, we will have a much more limited right of action against our directors than otherwise would be the case. This provision does not affect the liability of any director under federal or applicable state securities laws. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL FIND PURCHASERS OF OUR PRODUCT AT PROFITABLE PRICES. If we are unable to achieve supply contracts, or are unable to find buyers willing to purchase our coal at profitable prices, our revenues and operating profits could suffer. THE COAL INDUSTRY IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUE AND MARGINS, AND DELAY OR PREVENT OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE OUR DEBT. We operate in a highly competitive industry with regional, national and international energy resources companies. We compete based primarily on price, and we believe that the principal factors that determine the price for which our coal can be sold are: o competition from energy sources other than coal; o coal quality; o efficiency in extracting and transporting coal; and o proximity to customers. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins, and delay or prevent our ability to make payments on our debt. 25 IF TRANSPORTATION FOR OUR COAL BECOMES UNAVAILABLE OR UNECONOMIC FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR ABILITY TO SELL COAL COULD SUFFER. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of delivered coal and, as a result, play a critical role in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our coal less competitive as a source of energy or could make some of our operations less competitive than other sources of coal. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to its customers. While U.S. coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. WE FACE RISKS INHERENT TO MINING WHICH COULD INCREASE THE COST OF OPERATING OUR BUSINESS. Our mining operations are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather and natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures, variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions. Any of these factors could increase the cost of operating our business, which would lower or eliminate our margins. A SHORTAGE OF SKILLED LABOR IN THE MINING INDUSTRY COULD POSE A RISK TO ACHIEVING OPTIMAL LABOR PRODUCTIVITY AND COMPETITIVE COSTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least a year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In order to support our planned expansion opportunities, we intend to sponsor both in-house and vocational coal mining programs at the local level in order to train additional skilled laborers. In the event the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens or we are unable to train the necessary amount of skilled laborers, there could be an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, we have supplemented our direct workforce through the use of contract miners. If our contract miners are unable to perform their duties as expected, we may experience temporary disruptions in our production. For example, in October 2005, we terminated our agreement with one of our contract miners, and as a result we were required to purchase coal to satisfy our sales requirements. We do not expect that this will have a material effect on our results of operations for 2006. However, if difficulties with our contract miners arise in the future, there could be an adverse effect on our productivity and costs and our ability to expand production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our earnings. THE GOVERNMENT EXTENSIVELY REGULATES OUR MINING OPERATIONS, WHICH IMPOSES SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON US, AND FUTURE REGULATIONS COULD INCREASE THOSE COSTS OR LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE COAL. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. In addition, legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners affects our industry. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, 26 liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers' ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser's plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the United States and over 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention established a binding set of emission targets for developed nations. Although the specific emission targets vary from country to country, the United States would be required to reduce emissions to by 5% from 1990 levels over a five-year period from 2008 through 2012. Although the United States has not ratified the emission targets and no comprehensive regulations focusing on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are in place, these restrictions, whether through ratification of the emission targets or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely impact the price of and demand for coal. According to the EIA's "Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States 2001," coal accounts for approximately one-third of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States, and efforts to control carbon dioxide emissions could result in reduced use of coal if electricity generators switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions. Further developments in connection with regulations or other limits on carbon dioxide emissions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. IF THE COAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCES OVERCAPACITY IN THE FUTURE, OUR PROFITABILITY COULD BE IMPAIRED. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. Similarly, an increase in future coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any overcapacity could reduce coal prices in the future. OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN REQUIRED BONDS. Federal and state laws require bonds or cash deposits to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers' compensation, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. At December 31, 2005, $257,500 was on deposit with OSM for reclamation bonds related to our Patterson Mountain mining operations. In addition, we have approximately $6.14 million of cash invested in certificates of deposit, against which irrevocable bank letters of credit are written in favor of OSM and have posted a $700,000 letter of credit secured by our executive office building in favor of OSM. Reclamation bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis if they are not posted with cash. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: o lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; o restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party bond issuers under the terms of our indenture or new credit facility; and o the exercise by third-party bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the bonds. 27 TERRORIST THREATS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ZEALOTRY MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Our business also may be affected by environmental activists who engage in activities intended to disrupt our business operations. In particular, environmental activists have conducted protests outside the homes of certain of our executives, including our Chief Executive Officer. We have spent approximately $600,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 on security measures and related legal fees, largely as a result of the actions of some environmental activists. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A SUBSTANTIAL OR EXTENDED DECLINE IN COAL PRICES COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND THE VALUE OF OUR COAL RESERVES. The prices we charge for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: o the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign coal; o the demand for electricity; o the proximity to, capacity of, and cost of transportation facilities; o domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; o air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; o regulatory, administrative and court decisions; o the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; and o the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. Decreased demand would cause spot prices to decline and require us to increase productivity and lower costs in order to maintain our margins. If we are not able to maintain our margins, our operating results could be adversely affected. Therefore, price declines may adversely affect operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and invest in operations. OUR ABILITY TO COLLECT PAYMENTS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS COULD BE IMPAIRED DUE TO CREDIT ISSUES. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base may not be highly creditworthy. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of customers or trading counterparties occurs, our business could be adversely affected. 28 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK A LIMITED PUBLIC MARKET EXISTS FOR OUR SECURITIES, WHICH MAY RESTRICT OUR SHAREHOLDERS' ABILITY TO TRADE IN OUR STOCK. There is a limited public market for our common stock and no assurance can be given that a market will continue or that a shareholder will ever be able to liquidate his investment without considerable delay, if at all. Our stock price may be highly volatile. Factors such as those discussed in this section may have a significant impact upon the market price of our securities. Due to the low price of our securities, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in our securities. Even if a purchaser finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in our securities, the combination of brokerage commissions, state transfer taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of such securities as collateral for any loans. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Historically, we have not paid dividends on shares of our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of the indenture related to our 10.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2010 and any future credit facility will each restrict our ability to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. OUR ISSUANCE OF MORE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK MAY RESULT IN THE LOSS OF CONTROL BY PRESENT MANAGEMENT AND SHAREHOLDERS. We may issue further shares as consideration for cash, assets or services out of our authorized but not issued common stock that could, upon issuance, represent a majority of our voting power and equity. The result of such an issuance would be that those new shareholders and management would control us, and unknown persons could replace our management at that time. Such an occurrence would result in a greatly reduced percentage of ownership of us by our current shareholders. WE OPERATE IN AN INDUSTRY THAT IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER THAT MAY RESULT IN UNEXPECTED REDUCTIONS IN REVENUE AND STOCK PRICE VOLATILITY. Factors that may influence our quarterly operating results include: o the worldwide demand for coal; o the price of coal; o the supply of coal and other competitive factors; o the costs to mine and transport coal; o the ability to obtain new mining permits; o the costs of reclamation of previously mined properties; and o industry competition. Due to these factors, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results may be below our shareholders' expectations and those of public market analysts. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECREASE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND CAUSE OUR SHAREHOLDERS TO SUFFER SIGNIFICANT LOSSES. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease, perhaps substantially: o the failure of our quarterly operating results to meet expectations of investors or securities analysts; 29 o adverse developments in the financial markets, the coal and energy industries and the worldwide or regional economies; o interest rates; o changes in accounting principles; o sales of common stock by existing security holders; o announcements of key developments by our competitors; and o the reaction of markets and securities analysts to announcements and developments involving our Company. IF WE NEED TO SELL OR ISSUE ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OR ASSUME ADDITIONAL DEBT TO FINANCE FUTURE GROWTH, OUR SHAREHOLDERS' OWNERSHIP COULD BE DILUTED OR OUR EARNINGS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complementary businesses or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers. In order to do so, or to fund our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our shareholders' stock percentage ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company which could negatively impact our results of operations. OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OWN A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR COMMON STOCK, WHICH COULD LIMIT OUR SHAREHOLDERS' ABILITY TO INFLUENCE THE OUTCOME OF KEY TRANSACTIONS. As of March 28, 2006, our officers and directors and their affiliates owned approximately 42.8% of our outstanding voting shares. As a result, our officers and directors are able to exert considerable influence over the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of our Board of Directors. The voting power of these shareholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of us through the purchase of our common stock which might depress the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 