ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Registrants. Transmission Constraints Transmission constraints could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Cleco Power relies on two main suppliers of electric transmission when accessing external power markets. At times, even after completion of the Acadiana Load Pocket transmission project, physical constraints limit the amount of purchased power these transmission providers can deliver into Cleco Power’s service territory, which in turn can affect capacity or power purchases under long-term contracts, as well as spot market power purchases. If the amount of purchased power actually delivered into Cleco’s transmission system were to be less than the amount of power contracted for delivery, Cleco Power may rely on its own generation facilities to meet customer demand. Cleco Power’s incremental generation cost at that time could be higher than the cost to purchase power from the wholesale power market, thereby increasing its customers’ ultimate cost. In addition, the LPSC may not allow Cleco Power to recover part or all of its generation cost, which could be substantial. LPSC Audits The LPSC conducts fuel audits that could result in Cleco Power making substantial refunds of previously recorded revenue.Generally, fuel and purchased power expenses are recovered through the LPSC-established fuel adjustment clause, which enables Cleco Power to pass on to its customers substantially all such expenses. Recovery of FAC costs is subject to a periodic fuel audit by the LPSC. The LPSC FAC General Order issued November 6, 1997, in Docket No. U-21497 provides that an audit will be performed not less than every other year.Cleco Power currently has FAC filings for 2009 through 2012 subject to audit. Management is not able to predict or give a reasonable estimate of the possible range of the disallowance, if any, related to these filings. However, if a disallowance of fuel costs is ordered resulting in a refund, any such refund could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The most recent fuel audit completed by the LPSC was for the years 2003 through 2008 and resulted in Cleco Power making refunds of $0.4 million plus interest to customers during the September 2012 billing cycle. The LPSC conducts environmental audits that could result in Cleco Power making substantial refunds of previously recorded revenue.In July 2009, the LPSC issued Docket No. U-29380 Subdocket A, which provides for an EAC to recover certain costs of environmental compliance as an adder to customers’ bills. The costs eligible for recovery are prudently incurred air emissions credits associated with complying with federal, state, and local air emission regulations that apply to the generation of electricity reduced by the sale of such allowances. Variable emission mitigation costs, which are the cost of reagents such as ammonia and limestone that are used to reduce air emissions, are also eligible for recovery. In November 2011, the LPSC opened Docket No. X-32150 to audit the costs for the periods October 2009 through October 2010. Cleco Power has environmental adjustment clause filings for the years 2010 through 2012 that remain subject to audit. These variable emission mitigation costs were historically recovered through the FAC. Management is not able to predict or give a reasonable estimate of the possible range of the disallowance, if any, related to these filings. However, if a disallowance of environmental costs is ordered resulting in a refund, any such refund could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Hedging and Risk Management Activities Cleco Power is subject to market risk associated with fuel cost hedges relating to open natural gas contracts. Cleco has risk management policies which cannot eliminate all risk involved in its energy commodity activities. Cleco Power may enter into fuel cost hedge positions to mitigate the volatility in fuel costs passed through to its retail customers. When these positions close, actual gains or losses are deferred and included in the FAC in the month the physical contract settles. However, recovery of any of these FAC costs is subject to, and may be disallowed as part of, a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit conducted by the LPSC. Cleco Power manages its exposure to energy commodity activities by maintaining risk management policies and establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures cannot eliminate all risk associated with these activities, particularly if intentional misconduct is involved.Financial derivatives reforms could increase the liquidity needs and costs of Cleco Power’s commercial trading operations.In July 2010, Congress enacted federal legislation to reform financial markets that significantly altered how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated. The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring 18CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-Kstandardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. The law gave the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy commodities. The end user exemption reduces, but does not eliminate, the applicability of these measures. Cleco Power qualifies for the end user exemption and intends to apply for it at the appropriate time. These requirements could cause Cleco Power’s future OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on its liquidity due to additional capital requirements. In addition, by standardizing OTC products, these reforms could limit the effectiveness of Cleco Power’s hedging programs because Cleco Power would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk it is seeking to protect. Commodity Prices Cleco Power is subject to the fluctuation in the market prices of various commodities which may increase the cost of producing power. Cleco Power purchases natural gas, petroleum coke, lignite, and coal under long-term contracts and on the spot market. Historically, the markets for natural gas, petroleum coke, and coal have been volatile and are likely to remain volatile in the future. Cleco Power’s retail and wholesale rates include a FAC that enables it to adjust rates for monthly fluctuations in the cost of fuel and purchased power. However, recovery of any of these FAC costs is subject to, and may be disallowed as part of, a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit conducted by the LPSC or FERC.Global Economic Environment and Uncertainty; Access to Capital The global economic environment and uncertainty may negatively impact Cleco’s business and financial condition, pension plan, lenders, and customers.The global economic environment and uncertainty may have an impact on Cleco’s business and financial condition. Cleco’s pension plan portfolio has experienced significant volatility due to market conditions and may experience material losses in the future. The losses, in conjunction with plan funding requirements, could result in required pension plan contributions significantly higher and earlier than previously anticipated, which could have a material adverse impact on Cleco’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Further, the current economic environment and uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on Cleco’s lenders or its customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to Cleco or to delay payment of such obligations. Additionally, the current economic environment and uncertainty could lead to reduced electricity usage, which could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The Registrants depend on access to the capital markets and, at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more difficult to handle future contingencies such as natural disasters or substantial increases in commodity prices. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the Registrants’ ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital to operate and grow their businesses, and the cost of capital. The Registrants’ business is capital intensive and dependent upon their respective ability to access capital at reasonable rates and other terms. At times there are spikes in the price for natural gas and other commodities that increase the Registrants' liquidity requirements. In addition, the Registrants' liquidity needs could significantly increase in the event of a hurricane or other weather-related or unforeseen disaster similar to that experienced in the Registrants' service territory with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The occurrence of one or more contingencies, including a delay in regulatory recovery of fuel, purchased power, or storm restoration costs, higher than expected pension contributions, an acceleration of payments or decreased credit lines, less cash flow from operations than expected, or other unknown events, such as future storms, could cause the financing needs of the Registrants to increase. In addition, accessing the debt capital markets more frequently in these situations may result in an increase in leverage. Material leverage increases could negatively affect the Registrants' respective credit ratings, which in turn could negatively affect access to capital markets.The global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the recent past. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, could negatively affect the Registrants' ability to maintain and expand their business. Events beyond the Registrants' control, such as volatility and disruption in global capital and credit markets, may create uncertainty that could increase their cost of capital or impair their ability to access the capital markets, including the ability to draw on their respective bank credit facilities. The Registrants are unable to predict the degree of success they will have in renewing or replacing their respective credit facilities as they come up for renewal. Moreover, the size, terms, and covenants of any new credit facilities may not be comparable to, and may be more restrictive than, existing facilities. If the Registrants are unable to access the credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities, and/or bear an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants' ability to fund capital expenditures or debt service or on the Registrants' flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Future Electricity Sales Cleco Power’s future electricity sales and corresponding base revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by general economic conditions.General economic conditions can negatively impact the businesses of Cleco Power’s industrial and commercial customers resulting in decreased power consumption, which causes a corresponding decrease in revenue. In the past, recessions have adversely affected MWh sales due to closures and reductions in load requirements across Cleco Power’s industrial customer base, particularly among manufacturers of wood and paper products. The paper industry continues to be vulnerable to decreasing demand for its products, and the downturn in residential home construction also has caused a significant reduction in the demand and prices for lumber and other wood products. Reduced production or the shut down of any of these customers’ facilities could substantially reduce Cleco Power’s base revenue. 19CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-KEnergy conservation and energy efficiency efforts could have a material adverse effect on Registrant's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and incentives to reduce energy consumption. Conservation and energy efficiency programs are designed to reduce energy demand. Future electricity sales could be impacted by industrial customers switching to alternative sources of energy, including on-site power generation and retail customers purchasing less electricity due to increased conservation efforts or expanded energy efficiency measures. Unless there is a regulatory solution, declining usage will result in an under-recovery of fixed costs at Cleco Power's rate regulated business. A reduction in energy demand could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Cleco Power Generation Facilities Cleco Power’s generation facilities are susceptible to unplanned outages, significant maintenance requirements, and interruption of fuel deliveries. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel supply interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Almost one-third of Cleco Power’s net capacity is at facilities that were originally constructed before 1980. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant expenditures to operate at peak capacity or availability, or to comply with environmental permits. If Cleco Power fails to make adequate expenditures for equipment maintenance, Cleco Power risks incurring more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated operating and maintenance expenditures, increased fuel or power purchase costs, and potentially the loss of revenue related to competitive opportunities. Newer equipment can be subject to premature failures.Cleco Power’s generating facilities are fueled primarily by coal, natural gas, petroleum coke, and lignite. The deliverability of these fuel sources may be constrained due to such factors as higher demand, production shortages, weather-related disturbances, waterway levels, or lack of transportation capacity. If the suppliers are unable to deliver the contracted volume of fuel, Cleco Power would have to replace any deficiency with alternative sources, which may not be as favorable and could increase the ultimate cost of fuel to customers. Fuel and purchased power expenses are recovered from customers through the FAC, which is subject to refund until either a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit is conducted by the LPSC.Competition for access to other natural resources, particularly oil and natural gas, could negatively impact Cleco Power’s ability to access its lignite reserves. Land owners may grant other parties access for oil and natural gas drilling in the same area to which Cleco has been granted access for lignite reserves. Placement of drilling rigs and pipelines for developing oil and gas reserves can preclude access to lignite in the same areas making the right of first access critical with respect to extracting lignite. Competition for the right of first access may need to be determined through legal processes. Additionally, Cleco Power could be indirectly liable for the impacts of other companies’ activities on lands that have been mined and reclaimed by Cleco Power. Loss of access to lignite reserves or the liability for impacts on reclaimed lands could have material adverse effects to the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities involve substantial risks. Should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of Cleco Power could be materially affected.Cleco Power's ability to complete construction of, or capital improvements to, power generation facilities in a timely manner and within budget is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include, but are not limited to, engineering and project execution risk and escalating costs for materials, labor, and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors not performing as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, poor quality initial cost estimates from contractors, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, changes in commodity prices affecting revenue, fuel costs, or materials costs, downward changes in the economy, changes in laws or regulations, including environmental compliance requirements, and other events beyond the control of Cleco Power may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects. If these projects are significantly delayed or become subject to cost overruns or cancellation, Cleco Power could incur additional costs and termination payments, face increased risk of potential write-off of the investment in the project, or may not be able to recover such costs. MISOMISO market operations could have a material adverse effect onthe Registrants' results of operations, production costs, financial condition, and cash flows.On December 6, 2012, Cleco Power filed an application with the LPSC requesting a public interest determination to find in favor of the transfer of functional control of certain transmission assets to MISO, to create an accounting order deferring costs related to Cleco Power’s transition into the MISO organization, and to expedite treatment. Cleco Power anticipates joining the MISO RTO by January 2014.The MISO market region that Cleco Power will be a part of is referred to as “MISO South,” which encompasses parts of Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Once integrated, Cleco Power will no longer make economic or routine dispatch decisions regarding its generating assets that affect reliability of the bulk transmission electric system. Commitment of generation resources to the market will be determined by MISO based on priced offers. All operational impacts and production cost projections have been based on analytical assumptions on how the region will operate with both Cleco Power and Entergy as members. Future energy costs will be heavily influenced by MISO's dispatch of the generating assets owned not only by Cleco Power, but all market participants in the new MISO South region. Also, the recovery of transition costs to join MISO and new MISO billing determinants is dependent on a favorable accounting order from the LPSC. MISO will evaluate forced outage rates to assess each generating unit capacity for planning reserve functions. Should Cleco Power units not perform to MISO standards, Cleco Power may not possess sufficient planning reserves to 20CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-Kserve its needs and could be forced to purchase capacity from the market. The costs of such capacity may not be recoverable and could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, production costs, financial condition, and cash flows.Reliability and Infrastructure Protection Standards Compliance Cleco is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards. Fines and civil penalties are imposed on those who fail to comply with these standards.NERC serves as the ERO with authority to establish and enforce mandatory reliability and infrastructure protection standards, subject to FERC approval, for users of the nation’s transmission system. FERC enforces compliance with these standards. New standards are being developed and existing standards are continuously being modified. As these standards continue to be adopted and modified, they may impose additional compliance requirements on Cleco Power and Midstream operations, which may result in an increase in capital expenditures and operating expenses. Failure to comply with these standards can result in the imposition of material fines and civil penalties. In February 2010, the SPP RE notified Cleco that an audit would be conducted to determine Cleco’s compliance with the NERC Reliability Standard and Critical Infrastructure Protection cybersecurity standard requirements. The audit was conducted in April 2010. Cleco submitted mitigation plans and evidence of remedial efforts in connection with the SPP’s initial findings from the audit. Cleco and the SPP agreed to a financial settlement totaling less than $0.1 million, which has been approved by NERC. Cleco’s next scheduled NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection audit is expected to begin in March 2013. The next NERC Reliability audit is scheduled to begin in November 2013. Management is unable to predict the outcome of the future audit or whether it will have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Environmental Compliance Cleco’s costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant. The costs of compliance with new environmental laws and regulations, as well as the incurrence of incremental environmental liabilities, could be significant to the Registrants.Cleco is subject to extensive environmental oversight by federal, state, and local authorities and is required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations related to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Cleco also is required to obtain and comply with numerous governmental permits in operating its facilities. Existing environmental laws, regulations, and permits could be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to Cleco. For example, the EPA has announced rules that it will regulate CO2 and hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units. Cleco may incur significant capital expenditures or additional operating costs to comply with these revisions, reinterpretations, and new requirements. If Cleco fails to comply, it could be subject to civil or criminal liabilities and fines or may be forced to shut down or reduce production from its facilities. Cleco cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals.Environmental advocacy groups, states, other organizations, some government agencies, and the presidential administration are focusing considerable attention on the potential role in climate change from power generation facilities emissions, including CO2 emissions. Future changes in environmental regulations governing power plant emissions could make some of Cleco’s electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. In addition, any legal obligation that would require Cleco to substantially reduce its emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and could raise uncertainty about the future viability of some fossil fuels as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Cleco cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals.Cleco Power may request recovery from its customers of its costs to comply with new environmental laws and regulations. If the LPSC were to deny Cleco Power’s request to recover all or part of its environmental compliance costs, there could be a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Regulatory Compliance Cleco operates in a highly regulated environment and adverse regulatory decisions or changes in applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ businesses or result in significant additional costs.Cleco’s business is subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations. The LPSC regulates Cleco’s retail operations, and FERC regulates Cleco’s wholesale operations. The construction, planning, and siting of Cleco’s power plants and transmission lines also are subject to the jurisdiction of the LPSC and FERC. Additional regulatory authorities have jurisdiction over some of Cleco’s operations and construction projects including the EPA, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, the DOE, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Communications Commission, the LDEQ, the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, the Louisiana Department of Public Safety, regional water quality boards, and various local regulatory districts.Cleco must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should Cleco be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on Cleco, Cleco’s business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to Cleco or Cleco’s facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on the Registrants’ business or result in significant additional costs because of Cleco’s need to comply with those requirements. 21CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-KCleco Power’s Rates The LPSC and FERC regulate the rates that Cleco Power can charge its customers. Cleco Power’s ongoing financial viability depends on its ability to recover its costs from its LPSC-jurisdictional customers in a timely manner through its LPSC-approved rates and its ability to pass to its FERC customers through rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. Cleco Power’s financial viability also depends on its ability to recover in rates an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. If Cleco Power is unable to recover any material amount of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Cleco Power’s revenues and earnings are substantially affected by regulatory proceedings known as rate cases. During those cases, the LPSC or FERC determines Cleco Power’s rate base, depreciation rates, operation and maintenance costs, and administrative and general costs that Cleco Power may recover from its retail or wholesale customers through its rates. These proceedings may examine, among other things, the prudence of Cleco Power’s operation and maintenance practices, level of subject expenditures, allowed rates of return, and previously incurred capital expenditures. The LPSC and FERC have the authority to disallow costs found not to have been prudently incurred. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups, and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or reducing rates. Rate cases generally have long timelines, which may be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty.Retail Electric Service Cleco Power’s retail electric rates and business practices are regulated by the LPSC, and reviews may result in refunds to customers.Cleco Power’s retail rates for residential, commercial, and industrial customers and other retail sales are regulated by the LPSC, which conducts an annual review of Cleco Power’s earnings and regulatory return on equity. Cleco Power could be required to make a substantial refund of previously recorded revenue as a result of the LPSC review, and such refund could result in a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Wholesale Electric Service Cleco Power’s wholesale electric rates and business practices are regulated by FERC, and Cleco could lose the right to sell at market-based rates.Cleco Power’s wholesale rates are regulated by FERC, which conducts a review of Cleco Power’s generation market power every three years in addition to each time generation capacity changes. In January 2012, Cleco filed a Notice of Change of Status with FERC resulting from the termination of the Evangeline 2010 Tolling Agreement. In connection with such notice, Cleco included an analysis of Cleco's generation market power. In June 2012, Cleco filed its triennial market power analysis with FERC. FERC has not yet issued any findings in connection with either filing. If FERC determines Cleco Power possesses generation market power in excess of certain thresholds, Cleco Power could lose the right to sell wholesale generation at market-based rates within its control area, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Weather Sensitivity The operating results of Cleco Power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity, particularly kWh sales to residential customers. In Cleco Power’s service territory, demand for power typically peaks during the hot summer months. As a result, Cleco Power’s financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal basis. In addition, Cleco Power has sold less power and, consequently, earned less income when weather conditions were milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenue. Extreme drought conditions can impact the availability of cooling water to support the operations of generating plants, which can also result in additional expenses and lower revenue.The physical risks associated with climate change could impact the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The physical risks from climate change, such as an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, and potential increased impacts of extreme weather conditions or storms, could affect the Registrants' operations. The Registrants’ assets are in and serve communities that are at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions, storms, and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands. A significant portion of the nation's oil and gas infrastructure is located in these areas and is susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to fuel supply interruptions and price spikes. These and other physical changes could result in changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing and maintaining generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing needs), limits on Cleco Power's ability to meet peak customer demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction. Also, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health of a region or results in energy conservation or demand side management programs, it may adversely impact customer demand and revenues. Such physical or operational risks could have a material effect on the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.22CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-KCleco Credit Ratings A downgrade in Cleco Corporation’s or Cleco Power’s credit ratings could result in an increase in their respective borrowing costs and a reduced pool of potential investors and funding sources.Neither Cleco Corporation nor Cleco Power can assure that its current debt ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that one or more of its debt ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. If Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s were to downgrade Cleco Corporation’s or Cleco Power’s long-term ratings, particularly below investment grade, the value of their debt securities would likely be adversely affected, and the borrowing cost of Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power, as the case may be, would likely increase. In addition, Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power, as the case may be, would likely be required to pay higher interest rates in future debt financings and be subject to more onerous debt covenants, and its pool of potential investors and funding sources could decrease. Holding Company Cleco Corporation is a holding company and its ability to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on the cash generated by its subsidiaries.Cleco Corporation is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of Cleco’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Cleco Corporation’s ability to meet its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon the cash generated by these subsidiaries. Cleco Corporation’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on Cleco Corporation’s debt or to make any funds available for such payment. In addition, Cleco Corporation’s subsidiaries’ ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to Cleco Corporation may be restricted by their obligations to holders of their outstanding securities and to other general business creditors. Cleco Corporation’s right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of its creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if Cleco Corporation were a creditor of any subsidiary, its rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by Cleco Corporation. Moreover, Cleco Power, Cleco Corporation’s principal subsidiary, is subject to regulation by the LPSC, which may impose limits on the amount of dividends that Cleco Power may pay Cleco Corporation.Midstream Generation Facility Midstream’s generation facility is susceptible to unplanned outages, significant maintenance requirements, interruption of fuel deliveries, and transmission constraints.The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. If adequate expenditures for equipment maintenance are not made, a facility may incur more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated operating and maintenance expenditures, increased fuel costs, and potentially the loss of revenue related to competitive opportunities.Midstream’s generation facility is fueled by natural gas. The deliverability of this fuel source may be constrained due to such factors as higher demand, production shortages, weather-related disturbances, or lack of transportation capacity. Due to Midstream’s generation facility’s location on the transmission grid, Midstream relies on one main supplier of electric transmission when accessing external power markets. However, at times, physical constraints limit the amount of power this transmission provider can deliver. Alternative Generation Technology Changes in technology may negatively impact the value of the Cleco Power and Midstream generation facilities. A basic premise of Cleco’s business is that generating electricity at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a relatively low price. There are alternative technologies to produce electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and photovoltaic (solar) cells. Many companies and organizations conduct research and development activities to seek improvements in alternative technologies. It is possible that advances will reduce the cost of alternative methods of electricity production to a level that is equal to or below that of most central station production. Also, as new technologies are developed and become available, the quantity and pattern of electricity purchased by customers could decline, with a corresponding decline in revenues derived by generators. In addition, the current presidential administration and certain members of the U.S. Congress have voiced support for such alternative energy sources. As a result, the value of the Cleco Power and Midstream generation facilities could be significantly reduced. Insurance Cleco’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Cleco currently has general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of its facilities in amounts that it considers appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of Cleco’s facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on Cleco’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Like other utilities that serve coastal regions, Cleco does not have insurance covering its transmission and distribution system, other than substations, because it believes such insurance to be cost prohibitive. In the future, Cleco may not be able to recover the costs incurred in restoring transmission and distribution properties following hurricanes or other natural disasters through issuance of storm recovery bonds or a change in Cleco Power’s regulated rates or otherwise, or any such recovery may not be timely granted. Therefore, Cleco may not be able to restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution properties without negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.23CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-KLitigation The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ financial condition.The Registrants are party to various litigation matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that the Registrants may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Taxes Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants’ financial condition.The Registrants make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, franchise, real estate, sales and use, and employment-related taxes. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. Changes in federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results, or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by the Registrants could negatively affect their results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Health Care Reform Cleco may experience increased costs arising from health care reform. In March 2010, Congress passed, and the President signed, the PPACA. This law may have a significant impact on health care providers, insurers, and others associated with the health care industry. Cleco is continuing to evaluate the impact of this comprehensive law on its business and has made the required changes to its health plan for 2013. Federal and state governments may propose other health care initiatives and revisions to the health care and health insurance systems. It is uncertain what legislative programs, if any, will be adopted in the future, or what action Congress or state legislatures may take regarding other health care reform proposals or legislation. Although the law has passed, many regulations have yet to be written; therefore, management cannot quantify the impact of these regulations, including those relating to the establishment of exchanges and the applicability of excise taxes on excess health benefits. The new regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Technology and Terrorism Threats Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may negatively impact the Registrants’ operating results.Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt the Registrants’ operations and harm the Registrants’ operating results. The Registrants operate in a highly-regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite the implementation of security measures, all of the Registrants’ technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. If the Registrants’ technology systems were to fail and the Registrants were unable to recover in a timely way, the Registrants would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, the Cleco Power and Midstream generation plants, fuel storage facilities, transmission, and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt the Registrants’ ability to produce or distribute some portion of their energy products. Any such disruption could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure the Registrants’ assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.Cleco Power LLC’s Unsecured and Unsubordinated Obligations Cleco Power LLC’s unsecured and unsubordinated obligations, including, without limitation, its senior notes, will be effectively subordinated to any secured debt of Cleco Power LLC and the debt and any preferred equity of any of Cleco Power’s subsidiaries.Cleco Power LLC’s senior notes and its obligations under various loan agreements and refunding agreements with the Rapides Finance Authority, the Louisiana Public Facilities Authority, and other issuers of tax-exempt bonds for the benefit of Cleco Power LLC are unsecured and rank equally with all of Cleco Power LLC’s existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, Cleco Power LLC had an aggregate of $1.19 billion of unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Cleco Power LLC will be effectively subordinated to, and thus have a junior position to, any secured debt that Cleco Power LLC may have outstanding from time to time (including any mortgage bonds) with respect to the assets securing such debt. As of December 31, 2012, Cleco Power LLC had no secured indebtedness outstanding. Cleco Power LLC may issue mortgage bonds in the future under its Indenture of Mortgage and holders of mortgage bonds would have a prior claim on certain Cleco Power LLC material assets upon dissolution, winding up, liquidation, or reorganization. Additionally, Cleco Power LLC’s ability (and the ability of Cleco Power LLC’s creditors, including holders of its senior notes) to participate in the assets of Cleco Power LLC’s subsidiary, Cleco Katrina/Rita, is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. As of December 31, 2012, Cleco Katrina/Rita had $130.1 million of indebtedness outstanding, net of debt discount.24CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2012 FORM 10-KITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.