Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us because they have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Proposed Merger with Cowen We will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending that could adversely affect our financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on our employees and certain of our business operations may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. The pursuit of the Merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us, without Cowen’s consent, from, among other things, (i) making any material change in the conduct of our business or enter into any transactions other than in the ordinary course during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and consummation of the Merger, (ii) making changes in our organizational documents or issuing stock or instruments convertible into our stock, (iii) entering into certain transactions, (iv) subjecting any of our material assets or properties to any liens, (v) redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring our stock, (vi) increasing compensation or benefits of any of our personnel (with certain exceptions), (vii) settle, release or forgive any material claims, litigation or regulatory action, or (viii) making any other material changes or entering into any material transactions, in each case without the prior consent of Cowen. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete the Merger, including the approval of our stockholders and Cowen’s stockholders in the anticipated timeframe, or at all. Completion of the Merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the Merger by our stockholders and the approval by Cowen’s stockholders of the issuance of Cowen common stock in connection with the Merger. We may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the Merger. If the stockholders of either company do not approve the Merger at the special stockholder meetings to be held after the related Merger proxy and registration statement is effective, the Merger will not be consummated. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the Merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. These closing conditions include, among others, the receipt of required approvals of our and Cowen’s respective stockholders, receipt of certain regulatory approvals such as FINRA, the FSA (in the United Kingdom) and the SFC (in Hong Kong) and the expiration or termination of all waiting periods under applicable antitrust laws, including the applicable waiting periods under the Hart–Scott–Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. Any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the benefits that we and Cowen expect to achieve from the Merger and the integration of our businesses, and the Merger Agreement provides a termination right to each party if the Merger is not consummated by August 31, 2011. If the Merger is not completed, our financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including but not limited to: • payment to Cowen of a termination fee of $6.25 million or reimbursement of Cowen’s expenses of up to $1.5 million, as specified in the Merger Agreement, depending on the nature of the termination; • being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger. Any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the Merger, or failure to complete the Merger could negatively affect our future business, financial condition or results of operation. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the Merger, agencies may 19 Table of Contents impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business after consummation of the Merger. These requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the Merger or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the business combination. Further, no assurance can be given that the required stockholder approvals will be obtained or that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals. If we agree to any material requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the Merger, these requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions could adversely affect the ability to integrate the operations or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger. This could result in a failure to consummate the Merger or have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company after consummation of the Merger. Whether or not the Merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 20 Table of Contents Pending stockholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. Since the announcement of the proposed Merger on February 17, 2011, two class action lawsuits have been filed by stockholders in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York. Plaintiffs in both actions challenge the Merger Agreement entered into by Cowen and us. The actions allege that our directors, Michael LaBranche, Alfred O. Hayward, Jr., Katherine Elizabeth Dietze, Donald E. Kiernan and Stuart M. Robbins, breached their fiduciary duties of care and loyalty in approving the Merger Agreement. The actions also allege that we, Cowen and Louisiana Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cowen created to effectuate the proposed transaction, aided and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for more detailed information concerning these lawsuits. The complaints seek, among other things, injunctive relief against consummation of the Merger, declaratory judgments for breach of fiduciary duties, attorney’s fees and damages in an unspecified amount. No assurances can be given that this litigation will not result in such an injunction being issued, which could prevent or delay the closing of the Merger. It is possible that additional lawsuits may be filed against us asserting similar or different claims. There can be no assurance that we or any of the other defendants will be successful in the outcome of any of these pending or future lawsuits. Risks Related to Our Business The market structure in which we operate may continue to change or lose its viability, making it difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. Our trading businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past three years in particular, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. The market structure in which we operate is changing and these changes could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. These changes may make it difficult for us to maintain and/or predict levels of profitability or may cause us to generate losses. The most notable recent events that could have a direct impact on our business are the proposal for a stock and options transactions tax by the Obama administration, the NYSE’s new market model, which commenced in late December 2008, the change to the NYSE’s HYBRID market model, the NYSE’s mergers with Archipelago and Euronext in 2006 and 2007, the 2008 merger of NYSE Regulation and the NASD, forming FINRA, SEC emergency rulemaking with respect to Regulation SHO and the SEC’s structural changes in the U.S. equity trading markets. As noted, many of these changes resulted in a significant reduction in the profitability of our DMM business, which caused us to sell the DMM business and related assets in January of 2010, which also marked the exit of our company from the Hybrid market model at the NYSE. Many of the market changes, along with our unsuccessful trading strategies in response to, and following, such changes, have caused our options market-making business to generate significant losses over the past two years. Further, as previously discussed, the internalization of orders, in which large brokerage firms are able to cross trades among their large client bases without directing any business to the major exchanges and marketplaces, has restricted order flow and, consequently, our ability to participate in trades, as have the significant declines in order flow due to redemptions at large funds and investors exiting the markets. The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. 21 Table of Contents Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The continued growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies, such as our options, ETFs and futures market-making algorithms, is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. This acceleration could further increase program trading, increase the speed of transactions and decrease our ability to participate in transactions as principal, which would reduce our profitability. Some of these alternative trading systems compete with our Market-Making businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. We have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the increased program trading and increased percentage of stocks trading off of the historically manual trading markets. Our technology, which designed to trade on various exchanges and marketplaces, can only be as good as the systems with which it interacts. This means that there are times when system failures on the exchanges on which we operate have had an impact on our profitability. We cannot provide assurance that any of these exchanges will be able to reimburse us for all losses incurred as a result of their systems failures on a timely basis, or at all, or even if these exchanges will be able to understand or agree that those losses were in fact caused by their systems failures, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the exchanges’ systems failures could result in erroneous regulatory investigations that could be generated by false exception reports by the market surveillance groups of those exchanges. An inability to timely or successfully develop enhanced proprietary trading systems and increases in electronic trading on other exchanges for our market-making business, may adversely affect our business and profitability. As the securities trading marketplace has become almost completely automated, we have developed electronic trading capabilities which allow us to interact with electronic order flow, and to engage in market-making transactions in options, ETFs and other derivative product in other markets, such as the NYSE Amex Exchange, the NYSE Arca Exchange, the ISE, the NYBOT, the Comex and other options and derivative product exchanges, which have introduced their own version of a fully or mostly automated market in order to comply with Regulation NMS. All of these electronic-based markets have required us to expend significant programming efforts and resources to transact business in the electronic marketplace. Throughout this process, we have internally developed trading systems to interact on these markets and these systems. We have experienced some declines in revenues and/or have generated losses at times under these conditions, and may experience further declines in trading or revenues as the new markets models and electronic trading platforms emerge, and it is still early in the new electronic trading environment to fully determine the successes or failures of these trading technologies and their effect on our profitability. We have also developed internal fair value programs designed to enable us to provide competitive quotations on request from other broker-dealers in our derivative product market making businesses quickly and efficiently. We cannot guarantee that these fair value models and programs will be effective or competitive in comparison to other similar market-makers and our ability to compete may depend on the resources we devote to these programs and the talent of our traders and developers. Our ability to compete with other market-making firms may be adversely affected if others are able to more quickly and efficiently make markets better than we can. 22 Table of Contents We have developed and are continuing to develop more advanced trading technologies to trade opportunistically while continuing to comply with our market-making obligations in our other market-making activities in options and ETFs. There can be no assurance that our internally-developed market-making algorithms do not have errors or can always monitor or prevent rule violations. In addition, we cannot assure you that our trading algorithms cannot have flaws or that our quality assurance procedures will always catch those flaws, which could result in algorithmic trading programs that generate losses in a short or prolonged timeframe. In the event all violations or losses cannot be prevented, these trading programs may expose us to regulatory fines and penalties by exchange regulatory authorities or expose us to significant trading losses. We cannot provide assurance that our more advanced trading systems, even if they perform as designed, will be profitable due either to the changing nature of the marketplace or changes in exchange and/or securities rules or laws. We also cannot provide assurance that these proprietary trading systems will enable us to compete effectively with our direct competitors, who may have better or more advanced technology than we do. Our profitability and ability to compete may depend on the ability of our business and technology personnel to effectively adapt these advanced trading systems to changes in the marketplace, while adequately maintaining our specialist and market-making obligations. In the event we cannot successfully build and adapt this trading technology, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. After the sale of our DMM business in January 2010, our Market-Making segments results have been, and may continue to be, more volatile and difficult to predict. Since we sold LaBranche & Co. LLC’s DMM operations in January 2010, the results of our Market-Making segment have shifted solely to our options and ETFs market-making activities and foreign currency trading. Historically, and for the foreseeable future, the operating results of these derivatives market-making operations have been significantly more volatile and difficult to predict than our DMM business. For example, our options and ETFs market-making results in 2007 were significantly less profitable than those divisions were in 2008 when our options market-making results constituted the substantial majority of our Market-making segment’s profitability. In 2009 and 2010, our options market-making business generated significant losses. The profitability of our remaining Market-Making businesses will be difficult to project and may vary significantly. Historically, the earnings performance of our options and ETFs market making division has been very volatile with significant profits in one period versus poorer performance in others. This volatility can have a material adverse effect on our profitability in each accounting period, and on our ability to project earnings going forward, which could create volatility in our stock price, depending on these results. Our future success will depend on the ability to upgrade information and communications systems, and any failure to do so could harm our business and profitability. The development of complex communications systems and new technologies, including Internet-based technologies, may render our existing information and communications systems outdated. In addition, our information and communications systems must be compatible with those of the NYSE Arca Exchange, the NYSE Amex Exchange, the ISE, the Comex and the other exchanges on which we conduct business. As a result, when those exchanges upgrade their systems, we will need to make corresponding upgrades. For example, throughout 2007, 2008 and 2009, the NYSE made numerous changes to its trading technologies, both major and minor, in its discretion. Some of these changes required us to adapt our trading technology, with processes that can at times be time consuming and costly and that often carried risks associated with high frequency trading algorithms, such as coding errors, system 23 Table of Contents malfunctions, quality assurance testing errors and technology glitches. These same types of errors can arise in our general trading algorithm technology development lifecycle, as well. Our future success will depend on our ability, on a cost-effective basis, to timely and competitively respond to changing technologies. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Ultimately, these changes, as well as significantly reduced profitability of our DMM business caused us to sell the DMM business in January 2010 at a value much lower than we would have received prior to this market, technological and other changes. The domestic NYSE Arca Exchange’s, the NYSE Amex Exchange’s, the CBOE’s, ISE’s, NYBOT’s, Comex’s, and the international London Stock Exchange’s, Euronext and Eurex exchanges ability to develop information and communications systems and complex computer and other technology systems has been instrumental in their development over the past several years. We are dependent on the continuing development of technological advances by these exchanges, as well as the other exchanges on which we trade, which is a process over which we have no control. If any of these exchanges, for any reason, is unable to continue its history of computer-related and other technological developments and advances, those failures could have an adverse effect on its success, including an ability to grow, to manage its trading volumes and to attract new listings. For example, in the new Regulation NMS environment, the NYSE and NYSE Amex Exchange had lost significant market share in trading of their listed securities to ATS’s, ECNs and large trading operations that internalize certain trading. As markets become more automated and we are increasingly dependent on high frequency trading algorithms, failures in these algorithms and their development processes could adversely affect our trading and profitability. As both national and international financial markets have become and continue to become more automated, we are increasingly dependent on our electronic trading systems to effectively compete. This is especially true in our Market-Making business segment due to the high frequency nature of trades and due to our obligations and desire to interact with high-paced order flow. We have internally developed trading algorithms to interact with the faster, more electronic order flow and employ significant personnel dedicated to the trading algorithm development process. Our development process entails communications among management at each of our broker-dealers, traders, compliance personnel and the coders to ensure that the development of our trading programs are adequately designed to achieve the goals of our business, as well as to comply with securities rules and regulations. If there are any failures in this communication process our trading technologies could not be efficient or profitable, or may expose us to liability for rule violations. In addition, once the goals of the trading technology are communicated, we have a development process to code and implement our trading algorithms. This process includes the following: • change initiation for development, bugs and enhancements; • ongoing reviews of the software development lifecycle; • quality assurance checks, including testing procedures; and • production migration procedures. It is possible that some employees in our technology development process may not adequately follow our procedures or, even if all procedures are followed, it is possible that coding errors pass through our procedures undetected. This risk is enhanced by the fact that certain exchanges do not provide us 24 Table of Contents with a test environment to run our algorithms other than “live” production. If our procedures are not followed by our employees or if undetected errors are implemented live, our high frequency algorithms could potentially cause errors that, if not immediately detected, could result in significant trading losses and/or regulatory investigations. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations or profitability. Our compliance and other regulatory costs could significantly increase under the new and changing market structures. With the recent implementation of significant new and amended SEC and exchange rules, such as Regulation NMS, final Rule 204 under Regulation SHO, the NYSE’s new market model and HYBRID model, and the creation of FINRA, there are voluminous new rules that have either been passed or are in the process of being implemented in the financial services industry over the past three years. As set forth above, we believe Regulation NMS, Rule 204, the creation of FINRA and the other market rules and changes have materially affected our compliance costs and have altered the competitive environment in which our Market-Making segment functions. As discussed above, the restrictions of regulation and the impact of Regulation NMS have caused a marked decline in the order flow of trades in NYSE-listed securities to the NYSE, which had significantly adversely impacted LaBranche & Co. LLC’s profitability and led to our sale of our DMM business. Further rule changes or even differing views of the application of new or amended market-making rules or their interpretation could adversely affect our compliance costs or result in increased investigations or inquiries into our trading practices or compliance procedures. Some of these new rules have required us to hire mandated “independent auditors” to review our compliance and technology development procedures to determine whether they are adequate or designed to comply with rules. These requirements also can, and have, increased our compliance costs and/or regulatory fines. We are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws that could result in investigations, fines or other penalties. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to increasing regulatory inquiries and informal investigations in the ordinary course of business and, as a result, are spending more resources on responding to and defending these inquiries and investigations. It is possible that these additional resources could result in increased legal and professional fees, as well as additional fines and formal regulatory actions going forward. It is difficult to predict whether and to what extent any of these regulatory inquiries could escalate. However, if any of these ordinary inquiries progress into material regulatory or legal proceedings, such proceedings could result in settlements, determinations or judgments requiring substantial payments of sanctions, fines and penalties, as well as the costs of defending these actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. For example, in June 2010, one of the regulatory investigations to which we were subject escalated into the form of a proceeding brought against LCAP (formerly our LaBranche Structured Products, LLC subsidiary) for violations of Regulation SHO and related charges. There can be no assurance as to the outcome or timing of the resolution of this proceeding. We therefore are unable to estimate the amount or potential range of any loss that may arise out of this proceeding. The range of possible resolutions could include a determination and judgment against us or a settlement that could require a substantial payment by us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. It is possible that unresolved regulatory investigations, including those that arise in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on 25 Table of Contents our business, operations and results of operations. The results of regulatory investigations could also result in changed capital requirements and changes in our ability to obtain capital treatment in connection with our market-making activities. Since we rely on inventory financing of our clearing firms, based on our status as a market-maker, any changes in these inventory financing arrangements could adversely affect the capital we have available to trade in our market-making operations. We have had substantial personnel turnover, including key trader turnover, and may have additional turnover, which could adversely affect our profitability. Since 2006, we have undergone significant headcount reductions, both through reductions in work force due to the proliferation of electronic trading and through attrition due to the changing market environment. From time to time, we also have had significantly talented traders leave our Company for other opportunities. For example, in January 2009, we announced that options market-making trading team left our Company to pursue other opportunities. This team helped build our options market-making business through a period of significant growth and our LSP operations have continued to represent an increasing large portion of our reported revenues during their tenure. The loss of this team and the timing and costs associated with continuing our options market-making business under new leadership had a material adverse effect on our revenues in 2009 and 2010 and other similar changes could continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability either because the production continues to suffer or because we do not receive the order flow that once was directed to our firm. Since we sold our DMM business in January 2010, continued declines in the revenues and or profitability of our options market-making, ETF market-making and other businesses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. This is true because we are significantly more reliant on our derivatives market-making business as, by far, the largest portion of our business. Historically, the earnings performance of our market making divisions has been very volatile with significant profits in one period versus poorer performance in others. This volatility can have a material adverse effect on our profitability and on our ability to project earnings going forward, which could create volatility in our stock price, depending on these results. Our future success could depend on our ability to retain key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued service of key employees, particularly George M.L. LaBranche, IV, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified management, trading, compliance and technical personnel is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us and our business prospects, both in general and following the announcement of our anticipated merger with Cowen. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses have been and may continue to be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. 26 Table of Contents Our market-making businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making businesses or could cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing capital charges or risk-based haircuts. Limiting the size of our market-making positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our profitability. In periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly (as has been the case recently), it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. In such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses. In addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements which increase our funding costs. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. Our securities transactions are conducted as principal, and at times, as agent, with broker-dealer or bank counterparties located in the United States and abroad. While exchanges and the clearing houses monitor the credit standing of the counterparties with which we conduct business, we cannot be certain that any of these counterparties will not default on their obligations. If any do, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect or prevent all employee misconduct or rule violations. We are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition, the SEC, the NYSE, the FINRA, the NYSE Amex Exchange, the NYSE Arca Exchange, other SROs and state securities commissions require strict compliance with their respective rules and regulations. Employee misconduct that may be difficult to detect could result in losses. Misconduct by employees could include, among other things, binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present excessive risks, violation of securities laws or exchange rules that have not been detected by the technological systems installed by the exchanges and us to prevent such violations or hiding from us unauthorized or 27 Table of Contents unsuccessful activities, which, in any case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputation or financial harm. If there are any additional investigations or actions against us, such investigations or actions could result in settlements, determinations or judgments requiring substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such investigations or actions, the imposition of substantial sanctions, fines or penalties and the suspension or revocation of our subsidiaries registrations with the SEC as a broker-dealer or their suspension or expulsion as member firms of FINRA and/or the exchanges on which we operate, in which case we would be unable to operate, or significantly hampered from operating, our business. It also may be difficult for us to comply with other new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities and SROs pursuant to Regulation NMS and other new rules and regulations affecting our businesses. The risks of failure to comply with foreign laws and rules will increase as our LSPE and LSPH subsidiaries operate as foreign broker-dealers. Failure to comply with any of these rules or regulations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Other changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC, these governmental authorities and SROs also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We also are subject to the risks of securities laws liability and related civil litigation. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of legal liability. Our market-making businesses are exposed to substantial risks of liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the NYSE Amex Exchange, the ISE, the NYBOT, the Comex, the NYSE Arca Exchange, the London Stock Exchange, the FSA and other exchanges and regulatory authorities. The NYSE and SEC investigation of specialist trading activity that was settled in April 2004 has also resulted in the initiation of purported class action and derivative action proceedings against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and other proceedings in other courts. Also, in June 2010, one of the regulatory investigations to which we were subject escalated into the form of a proceeding brought against LCAP (formerly our LaBranche Structured Products, LLC subsidiary) for violations of Regulation SHO and related charges. The announcement of our anticipated merger with Cowen has also resulted in the filing of class actions against us and our directors. All of these legal proceedings are described under “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” While we deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the actions initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of their resolution. The range of possible resolutions could include determinations and judgments against us or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such investigations and suits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also are subject to the risk of civil litigation, employment claims and other actions in the ordinary course of our business operations. For example, in August 2006, we settled a suit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of a former employee who claimed discrimination on the basis of disability. It is possible that we could incur significant legal expenses in defending 28 Table of Contents ourselves against such lawsuits or claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We may incur losses as a result of our balance sheet and risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. Our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our ordinary trading activities, incur losses. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated or previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. Many of our risk management tools are made up of software programs outsourced from third parties. In the past, market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses and they may do so in the future. Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. An increase in volatility would increase our measured or hedged risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce or adapt certain of our business activities. In addition, we have a substantial balance sheet relating to our options and ETF specialists and market-making operations. In the event the assumptions or quantifications we have taken to seed or hedge these positions are incorrect, or in the event the market volumes, prices or volatility are not as anticipated, our financial condition could be harmed. In such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may have insufficient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional financing when we need it. Our business depends on the availability of adequate capital. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient capital in the future or that additional financing will be available on a timely basis, or on terms favorable to us. Historically, we have satisfied these needs with internally generated funds, the issuance of subordinated debt by our operating subsidiaries and our issuance of common stock and senior and subordinated notes. While we currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, regulatory capital and capital expenditure requirements through at least the next twelve months, we may need to raise additional funds to: • increase the capital available to us for our inventory positions; • expand or diversify our operations; 29 Table of Contents • acquire complementary businesses; or • respond to unanticipated capital requirements. We may be required to obtain this additional financing on short notice as a result of rapid, unanticipated developments, such as a steep market decline. Our revenues may decrease due to changes affecting the economy or changes affecting the securities markets, such as decreased volume, volatility or liquidity. Our trading businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past twelve months in particular, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. Adverse changes affecting the economy and/or the securities markets could result in a further decline in market volatility or liquidity, thus negatively impacting revenues at our Market-Making segment and our Institutional Brokerage segment, which have caused us to commence a plan to terminate our Institutional Brokerage segment as described in “Item 1 – Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many elements of our cost structure do not decline if we experience reductions in our revenues and we may be unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, or at all, and we could suffer losses. Increased program trading and lower levels of volatility, with the exception of the second half of 2008, on the NYSE and other exchanges have negatively affected our results of operations, partially initiating our sale of the DMM business in January 2010, and may adversely affect our continuing operations in the future. Adverse changes in the economy and the securities markets could return, resulting in: • losses from declines in the market value of securities held in our accounts; • fragmentation of orders into smaller sizes and execution of such orders over multiple exchanges under Regulation NMS; • further declines in volatility in securities markets; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; and • further increases in claims and litigation. Whether market and economic conditions will improve or trading trends change and whether we will be able to adequately protect our interests and maintain revenues in the future is uncertain. Risks associated with our trading transactions could result in trading losses. A majority of our Market-Making segment’s revenues are derived from our trading for our own account as principal. We may incur trading losses relating to these activities, since each trade primarily involves the purchase, sale or short sale of securities for our own account. In any period, we may incur trading losses in a significant number of our market-making stocks, options, ETFs, foreign currencies and other derivatives for a variety of reasons, including price declines, lower trading volumes and the required performance of our obligations. From time to time, we have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. In general, because 30 Table of Contents our inventory of securities is marked-to-market on a daily basis, any downward price movement in these securities results in an immediate reduction of our revenues and operating results. Our market-maker trading in options, ETFs, other derivative instruments and foreign currencies also exposes us to certain additional risks associated with such factors as price fluctuations, foreign exchange currency movements, changes in the liquidity of markets, volatility and counterparty credit. Although we have adopted and carry out risk management procedures, we cannot be sure that these procedures have been formulated properly to identify or completely limit our risks and, even if formulated properly, we cannot be sure that we will successfully implement these procedures. As a result, we may not be able to manage our risks successfully or avoid trading losses. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a large number of derivative transactions, many of which are intended to hedge our market-making risk, including credit derivatives, which require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While a transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, we may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. Regulatory rules require us to make unprofitable trades and refrain from making profitable trades. Our role as a market maker, at times, may result in our making trades that adversely affect our operating results. For example, we may act as a principal when buyers or sellers outnumber each other and take a position counter to the market, buying or selling shares to support an orderly market in the affected stocks. By having to support an orderly market, maintain inventory positions and refrain from trading under some favorable conditions, we are subject to risk. Our market-making compliance systems, which are designed to monitor compliance with these rules may malfunction or may not timely detect failures to satisfy these obligations, which could result in fines and/or penalties. In many cases where we comply with our obligations, our compliance with rules could cause us to generate losses. Failure to comply with net capital and net liquid asset requirements may result in the revocation of our registration with the SEC or our expulsion from the NYSE and/or the AMEX. The SEC, FINRA, the NYSE Amex Exchange and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of minimum levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. As of December 31, 2009, LaBranche & Co. LLC was required to maintain minimum NLA of approximately $70.2 million. In January 2010, we sold the DMM business and related assets so the NLA requirement no longer applies to LaBranche & Co. LLC after the sale was consummated on January 22, 2010. After the DMM sale, the regulatory capital requirement for LaBranche’s combined subsidiaries is $4.0 million. Failure by any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain its required level of net capital 31 Table of Contents may subject it to suspension or revocation of its SEC registration or suspension or expulsion by the applicable exchange and/or the SEC or FINRA and/or the FSA in the United Kingdom or the SFC in Hong Kong. If this occurs with respect to any of our businesses, we would be unable to operate those businesses until we once again comply with the capital requirements. In addition, a change in these rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large capital requirement or charge against the regulatory capital of any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries could limit those areas of our operations which require intensive use of capital. These rules also could restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries, thus limiting our ability to expand, diversify or even maintain our present levels of business, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock. We depend primarily on our market-making activities, and if they fail to generate revenues as anticipated, it would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive the vast majority of our revenues from our market-making activities. If demand for our market-making services fails to grow, grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or declines, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We expect our market-making activities to continue to account for the vast majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future success will depend on: • maintaining and/or growing our trading volume in our market making securities; • the addition of international and domestic venues on which we are market-maker; • our ability to be effective and maintain our reputation as an efficient and willing market-maker among the broker-dealer community; • our ability to respond to regulatory and technological changes; and • our ability to respond to changing demands in the marketplace. Over the past few years, a number of alternative trading systems have been developed or emerged. These alternative trading systems may compete with market-makers by increasing trading in exchange-listed off the trading floors and fragmentizing the size and placement of orders. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to effectively compete in the market-making industry. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors in the market-making industry. New listings on the NYSE are obtained by the DMMs by an allocation process. Due to the sale of the DMM business in January 2010, LaBranche will not be competing for new listings of NYSE cash equities going forward. We compete with significantly larger entities to be the market-maker in ETFs, options and other derivative products. Although we have been able to secure a market share of these market-making businesses, we cannot assure you that our growth in market share will continue as our competitors focus more resources on their market-making and other trading businesses. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have in our market-making activities and may have greater name recognition. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities and listing company requirements. They also may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities to attract new listing companies. Our failure to compete effectively would have an adverse effect on our operating results. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet any future debt service obligations if we need to undertake new indebtedness in the future to fund our operations. Although we currently have no outstanding indebtedness after February 15, 2010, we may in the future be required to undertake debt obligations to fund our businesses. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to make scheduled payments on any new debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be, to an extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will not need to incur debt in the future and, if so, we cannot assure you that we would be able to generate sufficient cash flows or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay any future debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flows from operations are insufficient to pay any future obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of any future debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, repay or refinance any future debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our success depends on our ability to accurately process and record our transactions, and any failure to do so could subject us to losses. Our market-making and institutional brokerage activities require us to accurately record and process a very large number of transactions on a daily basis. Any failure or delay in recording or processing transactions could cause substantial losses for brokers, their customers and/or us and could subject us to claims for losses. We rely on our staff to operate and maintain our information and communications systems properly, and we depend on the integrity and performance of those systems. Our recording and processing of trades is subject to human and processing errors. Moreover, extraordinary trading volume or other events could cause our information and communications systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of our information systems or any other systems in the trading process could cause us to fail to complete transactions or could cause brokers who place trades through us to suffer delays in trading. Any information or communication systems failure or decrease in information or communications systems performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Our systems may fail as a result of a hardware, software, power or telecommunications failure. In addition, our offices are located in close proximity to the site of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. The aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center required us to close our operations and temporarily operate from our disaster recovery site. The NYSE and AMEX were also forced to stop operating for four consecutive trading days, which caused our operations to halt. It is possible that additional terrorist attacks or acts of war may occur in the future and that such attacks could compromise or disable our systems. Although we have established back-up disaster recovery centers in New York, Chicago and internationally and have an overall business continuity plan in the event of another disaster, these measures may not be effective in preventing an interruption of our business. We also are dependent on the proper and timely function of complex information and communications systems maintained and operated by or for the exchanges on which we operate, and clearing and depositary institutions. Failures or inadequate or slow performance of any of these systems 33 Table of Contents could adversely affect our ability to operate and complete trades. The failure to complete trades on a timely basis could subject us to losses and claims for losses of brokers and their customers. We may have difficulty successfully managing the evolution of our business. The transition of our business model to a more electronic trading marketplace has increased the demands upon our management and operations. This evolution has required, and will continue to require, an increase in investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities. The scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including SOX, has changed as the complexity of our business has increased. Although the size of our workforce significantly declined from 2006 through 2010, many of our SOX policies, processes and controls have not, which means we have fewer employees to ensure these controls are completed. We have implemented formal compliance procedures that are regularly updated but in the changing economic and regulatory environment, especially due to the merger of NYSE Regulation and the NASD into FINRA and proposed new rules and market structures noted above, we may be unable to timely adapt our compliance personnel and procedures to keep up in the changing environment. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to continue: • to improve our systems for operations, financial control and communication and information management; • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; • to raise additional capital if and when needed; • to effectively deploy assets, capital or workforce; • to maintain strong relationships with, and attract new securities listings; and • to retain and incentivize our employees. Three of our current or former executive officers are in a position to substantially affect matters requiring a stockholder vote. Certain of our current and former managing directors who currently own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock have entered into a stockholders’ agreement under which they have agreed, among other things, that their shares of our common stock will be voted, for as long as they own their shares, as directed by a majority vote of George M.L. LaBranche, IV, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Alfred O. Hayward, Jr., our executive officer, director and Chief Executive Officer of LaBranche & Co. LLC, and James G. Gallagher, a former executive officer and director. Accordingly, these individuals have the ability to substantially influence the outcome of most matters requiring approval by our common stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, a merger or consolidation, a takeover or another business combination. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 34 Table of Contents 