ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our publicly traded securities and all of the other information in our 2011 Annual Report. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Risks Related to our Business Jewelry purchases are discretionary, may be particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, and an economic decline will make it more difficult to generate revenue. The success of our operations depends, to a significant extent, upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending in China. These factors include economic conditions and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, employment rates, the level of consumers’ disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit and levels of taxation in regional and local markets in China where we manufacture and sell our products. There can be no assurance that consumer spending on jewelry will not be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions in China and globally. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth in recent years, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past two decades, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20%. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. During the recent global economic slowdown, the People’s Bank of China or PBOC set the interest rate at a rather low level and the central government implemented a several trillion of RMB stimulus plan which has brought increased liquidity into the market. However, if the global economy continues to recover it is very likely that PBOC will increase the interest rate. Significant increases in interest rates by the central bank could slow economic activity in China which may, in turn, materially increase our costs and reduce demand for our products. Most of our sales are of products that include gold, precious metals and other commodities, and fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities would adversely impact our ability to obtain and make products at favorable prices. The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold, and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In the past, we have not hedged our requirement for gold or other raw materials through the use of options, forward contracts or outright commodity purchasing. A significant increase in the price of gold could increase our production costs beyond the amount that we are able to pass on to our customers, which would adversely affect our sales and profitability. A significant disruption in our supply of gold, or other commodities could decrease our production and shipping levels, materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margins. Shortages of gold, or other commodities, or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, war, acts of terrorism, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets in which we purchase our raw materials, may adversely affect our ability to maintain production of our products and sustain profitability. Although we generally attempt to pass increased commodity prices to our customers, there may be circumstances in which we are not able to do so. In addition, if we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of gold, we would be unable to meet our production schedules and to ship products to our customers in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and customer relations. Furthermore, the value of our inventory may be affected by commodity prices. We record the value of our inventory using the weighted average method. As a result, decreases in the market value of precious metals such as gold would result in a lower stated value of our inventory, which may require us to take a charge for the decrease in the value of our inventory. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Competition in the jewelry industry could cause us to lose market share, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The jewelry industry in China is highly fragmented and very competitive. We believe that the market may become even more competitive as the industry grows and/or consolidates. We compete with local jewelry manufacturers and large foreign multinational companies that offer products that are similar to ours. Some of these competitors have larger local or regional customer bases, more locations, more brand equity, and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of this increasing competition, we could lose market share, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. These funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and, without additional funds, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. Our operations require substantial funds to finance our operating expenses, to maintain and expand our manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities and to cover public company costs. Without these funds, we may not be able to meet our goals. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. However, you should also be aware that in the future: • we cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all; • any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet our goals; and • any equity financing would result in dilution to stockholders. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, or on acceptable terms, we may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategy take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. In addition, we may be required to scale back or discontinue expansion plans, or obtain funds through strategic alliances that may require us to relinquish certain rights. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenue could be harmed if we are unable to strengthen and maintain our brand image. We believe that primary factors in facilitating customer buying decisions in China’s jewelry sector include price, confidence in the merchandise sold, and the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate our products from competitors’ by our brand-based marketing strategies is a key factor in attracting consumers, and if our strategies and efforts to promote our brand, such as television and magazine advertising and beauty contest sponsorships fail to garner brand recognition, our ability to generate revenue may suffer. If we are unable to differentiate our products, our ability to sell our products wholesale and our planned sale of products retail will be adversely affected. If we fail to identify or react appropriately or timely to customer buying decisions, we could experience a reduction in consumer recognition of our products, a diminished brand image, higher markdowns, and costs to recast overstocked jewelry. These factors could result in lowering selling prices and sales volumes for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There is only one source in China for us to obtain the precious metals used in our jewelry products; accordingly, any interruptions of our arrangement with this source would disrupt our ability to fulfill customer orders and substantially affect our ability to continue our business operations. Under the PRC law, supply of precious metals such as platinum, gold, and silver are highly regulated by PRC government agencies. The Shanghai Gold Exchange is the only supplier in China for gold used for our jewelry products. We are required to obtain and maintain several membership and approval certificates from government agencies in order to do business involving precious metals. The loss of our relationship or failure to renew our membership with the Shanghai Gold Exchange, or its inability to furnish precious metals to us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness, would adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders in accordance with our required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this situation were 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS to occur, we would not have any alternative suppliers in China to obtain our raw materials from, which would result in a decline in revenue and revenue potential, and ultimately risk the overall continuation of our business operations. If we are not able to adapt to changing jewelry trends in China, our inventory may be overstocked and we may be forced to reduce the price of our overstocked jewelry or incur the cost to recast it into new jewelry. Our jewelry sales depend on consumer fashions, preferences for jewelry and the demand for particular products in China. Jewelry design trends in China can change rapidly. The ability to accurately predict future changes in taste, respond to changes in consumer preferences, carry the inventory demanded by customers, deliver the appropriate quality, price products correctly and implement effective purchasing procedures, all have an important influence on determining sales performance and maximizing gross margin. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to sell our products. If such a situation were to exist, we would need to incur additional costs to recast our products to fit the demand, and the labor and manufacturing costs previously invested in the recast products would be lost. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our employee efficiency, product quality, working capital levels, and results of operations. We intend to develop the retail distribution of our products, which we believe will result in rapid growth, but will also place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Any significant growth in the market for our current wholesale business and our planned retail distribution would require us to expand our managerial, operational, financial, and other resources. During any period of growth, we may face problems related to our operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. We also will need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. If we are unable to successfully build these skills and expand our number of skilled management and staff, we may be unsuccessful in achieving our intended level of growth. Aside from increased difficulties in the management of human resources, we may also encounter working capital issues, as we will need increased liquidity to finance the purchases of raw materials and supplies, development of new products and the hiring of additional employees. Our failure to manage growth effectively may lead to operational and financial inefficiencies that will have a negative effect on our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers. We rely on our distribution network for virtually all of our revenues. Failure to maintain good distributor relations could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net sales. Our business depends directly on the performance of our more than 400 distributors, which we also refer to as our customers. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 18% and 6.10% of our gross revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively. As we do not have long-term contracts with our distributors, it is critical that we maintain good relationships with them. However, maintaining good relationships with existing distributors and replacing any distributor is difficult and time consuming. Our failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net sales. We must maintain a relatively large inventory of our raw materials and jewelry products to support customer delivery requirements, and if this inventory is lost due to theft, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We purchase large volumes of precious metals and store significant quantities of raw materials and jewelry products at our warehouse and show room in Wuhan, China. Although we have an inventory security system in place, we may be subject to future significant inventory losses due to third-party or employee theft from our warehouses or other forms of theft. The implementation of enhanced security measures beyond those that we already utilize, which include onsite police station with direct deployment of officers and instant access to Wuhan city police department, security cameras, and alarm systems in our warehouse, would increase our operating costs. Also, any such losses of inventory could exceed the limits of, or be subject to an 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS exclusion from, coverage under our insurance policies. Claims filed by us under our insurance policies could lead to increases in the insurance premiums payable by us or the termination of coverage under the relevant policy. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights. We have developed trademarks, patents, know-how, trade-names and other intellectual property rights that are of significant value to us. In particular, we have applied for patents on a limited number of designs of our jewelry products and trademarks as well. However, the legal regime governing intellectual property in the PRC is still evolving and the level of protection of intellectual property rights in the PRC may differ from those in other jurisdictions. Thus, it may be difficult to enforce our rights relating to these designs as well as our trademarks. Any unauthorized use of, or other infringement upon our designs or trademarks, could result in potential sales being diverted to such unauthorized sellers, and dilute the value of our brand. We are dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our success, to a great extent, has been attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Moreover, our daily operation and performance rely heavily upon our senior management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these officers or that such personnel may not receive and/or accept competing offers of employment. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. We have short-term outstanding borrowings, and we may not be able to obtain extensions when they become mature. Our notes payable to banks for short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were approximately $6.3 million and $6.1 million, respectively. Loans are collateralized by our buildings, plant and machinery etc. Interest expense paid for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $441,838 and $479,133, respectively, and fees paid to a third party guarantor for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $0 and $67,719, respectively. Our notes payable for short-term borrowing as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $6.3 million and bore an annual interest rate of 9.02%. Generally, these short-term loans mature in one year or less and contain no renewal terms. However, in China, it is customary practice for banks and borrowers to negotiate roll-over or renewals of short-term borrowing on an on-going basis shortly before maturity. Although we have renewed our borrowings in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these loans in the future as they become mature. If we are unable to obtain renewals of these loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms from banks or other parties, we will have to repay these borrowings with the cash on our balance sheet or cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings. The loss or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers may affect our revenues and earnings. We are dependent on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our business. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 41% of our net sales were generated from our five largest customers as compared to 29.59% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 18% and 6.10% of our net sales during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. All purchases of our products by customers are made through purchase orders and we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. The loss of those customers, or any of our other customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products, or any significant portion of orders from those customers, or any material adverse change in the financial conditions of such customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings, if we cannot find new customers in a timely manner. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not maintain sufficient insurance coverage for the risks associated with our business operations. As a result, we may incur uninsured losses. Except for property, accident and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance of such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. As a result, we may incur uninsured liabilities and losses as a result of the conduct of our business. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future, and even if we are able to obtain additional coverage, we may not carry sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy potential claims. Should uninsured losses occur, any purchasers of our common stock could lose their investment. The current global financial crisis and economic downturn may have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operation and financial condition. The current global financial crisis and economic downturn have adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including in China. Due to the global economical downturn, a decrease in consumer demand and a slowdown in domestic property investments, the economic situation in China has been challenging since the second half of 2008. This change in the macroeconomic conditions has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business and operations. If the current economic downturn continues, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we may have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that all potential environmental liabilities have been identified or properly quantified or that any prior owner, operator, or tenant has not created an environmental condition unknown to us. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and be subject to claims for damages that may require us to pay substantial fines or force us to suspend or cease operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Commission regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to more fully comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC All of our assets are located in China and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon what business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. One of our principal operating subsidiaries, Vogue-Show, is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations specifically governing the activities and conduct of foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue some or all of our business. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our operating affiliate, Wuhan Kingold, can only conduct business within its business scope, as detailed on its business license. Our license permits us to design, manufacture, sell and market jewelry products to department stores throughout the PRC and to engage in the retail distribution of our products. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure you that Wuhan Kingold will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of our business scope. Because our revenues are generated in RMB and our results are reported in U.S. dollars, devaluation of the RMB could negatively impact our results of operations. The value of RMB is subject to changes in China’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. In January 1994, the PRC government implemented a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the PBOC began publishing a daily base exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for RMB within a specified band around the central bank’s daily exchange rate. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to RMB from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. While the international reaction to the RMB 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further fluctuations of the exchange rate of RMB against the U.S. dollar, including possible devaluations. As all of our net revenues are recorded in RMB, any future devaluation of RMB against the U.S. dollar could negatively impact our results of operations. Our PRC stockholders are required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and their failure to do so could cause us to lose our ability to remit profits out of the PRC as dividends. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations, including Circular No. 75, or Circular 75, which became effective in November 2005, requiring PRC residents, including both PRC legal person residents and PRC natural person residents, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of the PRC for the purpose of equity financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in Circular 75 as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that have established or controlled an offshore special purpose company, which has finished a round-trip investment before the implementation of Circular 75, are required to register their ownership interests or control in such “special purpose vehicles” with the local offices of SAFE. Under Circular 75, the term “PRC legal person residents” as used in Circular 75 refers to those entities with legal person status or other economic organizations established within the territory of the PRC. The term “PRC natural person residents” as used in Circular 75 includes all PRC citizens and all other natural persons, including foreigners, who habitually reside in the PRC for economic benefit. The term “special purpose vehicle” refers to an offshore entity established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by PRC residents or PRC entities for the purpose of seeking offshore equity financing using assets or interests owned by such PRC residents or PRC entities in onshore companies, and the term “round-trip investment” refers to the direct investment in the PRC by PRC residents through “special purpose vehicles,” including without limitation, establishing foreign invested enterprises and using such foreign invested enterprises to purchase or control (by way of contractual arrangements) onshore assets. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his/her/its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch upon (i) injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore entity, or (ii) subsequent overseas equity financing by such offshore entity. PRC residents are also required to complete amended registrations or filing with the local SAFE branch within 30 days of any material change in the shareholding or capital of the offshore entity not involving a round-trip investment, such as changes in share capital, share transfers and long-term equity or debt investments, of already organized, or gained control of, offshore entities that have made onshore investments in the PRC before Circular 75 was promulgated must register with their shareholdings in the offshore entities with the local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. Under Circular 75, PRC residents are further required to repatriate into the PRC all of their dividends, profits or capital gains obtained from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such dividends, profits or capital gains. The registration and filing procedures under the Circular 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investments or shareholders loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds, or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. To further clarify the implementation of Circular 75, SAFE issued Circular No. 106, or Circular 106, on May 9, 2007, which is a guidance that SAFE issued to its local branches with respect to the operational process for SAFE registration that standardizing mores specific and stringent supervision on the registration relating to the Circular 75. Under Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If these shareholders and/or beneficial owners fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report such failure to the local SAFE authorities and, if the PRC subsidiaries do report the failure, the PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from any potential liability to them related to the stockholders’ failure to comply. The failure of these shareholders and/or beneficial owners to timely amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to the Circular 75 and Circular 106 or the failure of future shareholders and/or beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS procedures set forth in the Circular 75 and Circular 106 may subject such shareholders, beneficial owners and/or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. These regulations apply to our stockholders who are PRC residents. As of the date of this annual report, our chairman and chief executive officer, Zhihong Jia, and our general manager, Bin Zhao, have obtained their registrations under Circular 75, and the other PRC residents are in the process of obtaining such registrations. However, there is no assurance that such persons can successfully complete such registrations, and there is no assurance that all of the PRC resident stockholders and beneficiary stockholders have complied with and will comply with the SAFE registration requirements currently or in the future. In the event that these or other of our PRC-resident stockholders do not follow the procedures required by SAFE, we could (i) be exposed to fines and legal sanctions, (ii) lose the ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries or distribute dividends to our company, (iii) face liability for evasion of foreign-exchange regulations, and/or (iv) lose the ability to consolidate the financial statements of our PRC subsidiaries under applicable accounting principles. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC for the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises, or the Revised M&A Regulations, which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. In addition, the Revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on any non-PRC stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our wholly-owned BVI subsidiary, Dragon Lead, was formerly owned by eight BVI companies whose shareholders are non-PRC individuals. We understand that some of these non-PRC individuals are nominee shareholders holding shares on behalf of and for the interest of some PRC individuals and PRC companies who are also Wuhan Kingold minority shareholders. These minority Wuhan Kingold shareholders do not have experience in conducting or managing businesses outside the PRC, and therefore believe that to engage nominee shareholders to hold shares on their behalf are in their best commercial interest, and could provide them with guidance when they evaluate whether to purchase, sell or dispose of our shares after the closing. Also, on December 23, 2009, immediately before the reverse acquisition of Vogue Show, Fok Wing Lam Winnie (whose Mandarin name is Huo Yong Lin), the sole shareholder of Famous Grow and the majority shareholder of Dragon Lead prior to the closing of the reverse acquisition, entered into the call option with Zhihong Jia and Bin Zhao to comply with PRC regulations that restrict PRC residents from owning offshore 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS entities like us in direct exchange for their shares in the PRC operating company and as an inducement to encourage them to provide services to Wuhan Kingold and our company. The call option does not include a vesting schedule and continued employment is not a condition to the call option. Under the call option, as amended and restated, Fok Wing Lam Winnie granted to Zhihong Jia and Bin Zhao certain call options to acquire up to 100% of the shares of Famous Grow at an exercise price of $1.00, which is par value per share, or $0.001 per Famous Grow share, subject to any exercise notice, or Call Option which was determined in an arm’s length negotiation with the parties. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that entry into the VIE Agreements by Vogue-Show and Wuhan Kingold and entry into the call option agreement by Zhihong Jia, Bin Zhao and Fok Wing Lam Winnie may collectively constitute an onshore to offshore restructuring and a related party acquisition under the M&A Regulations, because upon the consummation of these transactions and after the Call Option is fully exercised, PRC individuals would become majority owners and effective controlling parties of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of Wuhan Kingold. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the relevant parties should fully disclose to the Wuhan SAFE or MOFCOM the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the reverse acquisition and its connection with the VIE Agreement. Our PRC counsel has opined among other things that: (i) each of our VIE agreements with Wuhan Kingold are valid and enforceable under relevant PRC laws, (ii) all government authorizations for the execution, delivery, performance and enforcement of our VIE agreements have been obtained as required by PRC laws, (iii) the ownership structure of Vogue Show and Wuhan Kingold created by our VIE agreements and the call options in favor of Zhihong Jia and Bin Zhao do not violate any provisions of applicable PRC laws, and (iv) no PRC governmental approvals were required under the Revised M&A Regulations in connection with our acquisition of our current ownership interests in any of our PRC subsidiaries or in connection with the VIE agreements. Our PRC counsel has reviewed and approved of these statements. We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM and CSRC will take the same view as our PRC counsel. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the reverse acquisition and VIE arrangement constitute a related party acquisition under the revised M&A Regulations, we cannot assure you we will be able to obtain any approval required from the national offices of MOFCOM or otherwise. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the call options or the VIE arrangement constitutes a related party acquisition without the approval of the national offices of MOFCOM, they could invalidate the call options and VIE arrangement. We may also face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company,” also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As we are a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some foreign companies, including some that may compete with our company, may not be subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or EIT Law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like us, having indirect ownership interests in PRC enterprises through intermediary holding vehicles. Moreover, under the New EIT Law, foreign shareholders of an entity that is classified as a PRC resident enterprise may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by such entity, unless the jurisdiction of incorporation of the foreign shareholder of such entity has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax, and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. It remains unclear whether the dividends payable by our PRC subsidiary or the gains our foreign shareholders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our Shares. Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with such training. In addition, we may need to rely on a new and developing communication infrastructure to efficiently transfer our information from retail outlets to our headquarters. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with Commission rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws, or other foreign laws against us or our management. All of our current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of jewelry, are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Governmental control of currency conversions could prevent us from paying dividends. All of our revenue is earned in RMB and current and future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to make dividend or other payments in United States dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including the restrictions that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC bank specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. These restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock. Inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may, in the future, cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency, the Renminbi, as their functional currency. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Chinese Renminbi. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS The income statements of our operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Risks Related to the VIE Agreements If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements through which we control Wuhan Kingold do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. Although we believe our contractual relationships through which we control Wuhan Kingold comply with current licensing, registration and regulatory requirements of the PRC, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree, or that new and burdensome regulations will not be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that our structure or operating arrangements do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The PRC government may determine that the VIE Agreements are not in compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. Vogue-Show manages and operates our gold jewelry business through Wuhan Kingold pursuant to the rights it holds under the VIE Agreements. Almost all economic benefits and risks arising from Wuhan Kingold’s operations are transferred to Vogue-Show under these agreements. Details of the VIE Agreements are set out in “Business — Company History” of this annual report beginning on page 7. There are risks involved with the operation of our business in reliance on the VIE Agreements, including the risk that the VIE Agreements may be determined by PRC regulators or courts to be unenforceable. Our PRC counsel has provided a legal opinion that the VIE Agreements are binding and enforceable under PRC law, but has further advised that if the VIE Agreements were for any reason determined to be in breach of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such breach, including: • imposing economic penalties; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of Vogue-Show or Wuhan Kingold; • imposing conditions or requirements in respect of the VIE Agreements with which Vogue-Show may not be able to comply; • requiring our company to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our company’s business; and • revoking the business licenses and/or the licenses or certificates of Vogue-Show, and/or voiding the VIE Agreements. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any of these actions could adversely affect our ability to manage, operate and gain the financial benefits of Wuhan Kingold, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage and operate Wuhan Kingold under the VIE Agreements may not be as effective as direct ownership. We conduct our jewelry processing and sales businesses in the PRC and generate virtually all of our revenues through the VIE Agreements. Our plans for future growth are based substantially on growing the operations of Wuhan Kingold. However, the VIE Agreements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Wuhan Kingold as direct ownership. Under the current VIE arrangements, as a legal matter, if Wuhan Kingold fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and (ii) reply on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be effective. Therefore, if we are unable to effectively control Wuhan Kingold, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives and grow our revenues. As the VIE agreements are governed by PRC law, we would be required to rely on PRC law to enforce our rights and remedies under them; PRC law may not provide us with the same rights and remedies as are available in contractual disputes governed by the law of other jurisdictions. The VIE Agreements are governed by the PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through court proceedings pursuant to PRC law. If Wuhan Kingold or its shareholders fail to perform the obligations under the VIE Agreements, we would be required to resort to legal remedies available under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, or claiming damages. We cannot be sure that such remedies would provide us with effective means of causing Wuhan Kingold to meet its obligations, or recovering any losses or damages as a result of non-performance. Further, the legal environment in China is not as developed as in other jurisdictions. Uncertainties in the application of various laws, rules, regulations or policies in PRC legal system could limit our liability to enforce the VIE Agreements and protect our interests. The VIE Agreements may be subject to audit or challenge by PRC tax authorities. A finding that we owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net earnings and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among affiliated parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax and financial consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the VIE Agreements do not represent arm’s-length prices. As a result of such a determination, the PRC tax authorities could adjust any of the income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions for PRC tax purposes recorded by us or Wuhan Kingold or an increase in taxable income, all of which could increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on us or Wuhan Kingold for under-paid taxes. Our shareholders have potential conflicts of interest with us which may adversely affect our business. Zhihong Jia is our chief executive officer and our chairman, and is also the largest shareholder of Wuhan Kingold. There could be conflicts that arise from time to time between our interests and the interests of Mr. Jia. There could also be conflicts that arise between us and Wuhan Kingold that would require our shareholders and Wuhan Kingold’s shareholders to vote on corporate actions necessary to resolve the conflict. There can be no assurance in any such circumstances that Mr. Jia will vote his shares in our best interest or otherwise act in the best interests of our company. If Mr. Jia fails to act in our best interests, our operating performance and future growth could be adversely affected. In addition, some or all of our shareholders could violate the non-competition agreements they have signed with our company by diverting business opportunities from our company to others. In such event, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS We rely on the approval certificates and business license held by Vogue-Show and any deterioration of the relationship between Vogue-Show and Wuhan Kingold could materially and adversely affect our business operations. We operate our jewelry processing and sales businesses in China on the basis of the approval certificates, business license and other requisite licenses held by Vogue-Show. There is no assurance that Vogue-Show will be able to renew its license or certificates when their terms expire with substantially similar terms as the ones they currently hold. Further, our relationship with Wuhan Kingold is governed by the VIE Agreements that are intended to provide us with effective control over the business operations of Wuhan Kingold. However, the VIE Agreements may not be effective in providing control over the application for and maintenance of the licenses required for our business operations. Wuhan Kingold could violate the VIE Agreements, go bankrupt, suffer from difficulties in its business or otherwise become unable to perform its obligations under the VIE Agreements and, as a result, our operations, reputations and business could be severely harmed. If Vogue-Show exercises the purchase options it holds over Wuhan Kingold’s share capital and assets pursuant to the VIE Agreements, the payment of the purchase price could materially and adversely affect our financial position. Under the VIE Agreements, Wuhan Kingold’s shareholders have granted Vogue-Show a ten-year option to purchase 100% of the share capital in Wuhan Kingold at a price determined by appraisal by an asset evaluation institution to be jointly appointed by Vogue-Show and Wuhan Kingold’s shareholders. Concurrently, Wuhan Kingold granted Vogue-Show a ten-year option to purchase Wuhan Kingold’s assets at a price determined by appraisal by such asset evaluation institution. As Wuhan Kingold is already our contractually controlled affiliate, Vogue-Show’s exercising of the above two options would not bring immediate benefits to our company, and payment of the purchase prices could adversely affect our financial position. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Following the exercise of his Call Option, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer would exercise significant influence over us. Our chairman and chief executive officer, Zhihong Jia, will beneficially own or control approximately 33% of our outstanding shares if he chooses to fully exercise his Call Option to purchase shares of Famous Grow. Mr. Jia thereafter could possibly have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Jia may also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Jia, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Mr. Jia may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of our company at or above the price they paid for them. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our shares, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including among others, our results 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments. The market price for our shares may be volatile. The market price for our shares are likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the markets for our products; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in gold jewelry; • announcements by us, or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of senior management and key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar. The market price for our shares dropped from $4.21 since January 3, 2011, to $1.14 as of December 31, 2011. Volatility in the price of our shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our shares may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial fraud. Rules adopted by the Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our independent registered public accountants. As disclosed in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010, during our review of our financial statements and results for the 2010 fiscal year, our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, identified an internal control matter that rose to the level of a material weakness. Consequently, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded at such time that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at December 31, 2010. In an effort to remediate the material weakness described above, and to enhance our internal control over financial reporting, during 2011, we continued to implement the remediation initiatives outlined in the section titled “Remediation Plan” in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010. More specifically, we hired an external consultant to provide, on an as needed basis, independent review and oversight of non routine transactions and accounting estimates, and the evaluation of the application of generally accepted accounting principles relating to complex accounting matters on a regular basis. Management believes that the above remediation measures have been effectively 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS implemented and maintained and therefore have effectively remediated as of December 31, 2011 the material weaknesses previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by Friedman LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report. Their report expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify additional weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed or other potential matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on quarterly operating results as indicative of future results. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the value of our securities. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenues or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. As a result of the factors listed below, it is possible that in future periods the results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • vulnerability of our business to a general economic downturn in China; • fluctuation and unpredictability of costs related to the gold, platinum and precious metals and other commodities used to manufacture our products; • seasonality of our business; • changes in the laws of the PRC that affect our operations; • competition from our competitors; and • our ability to obtain all necessary government certifications and/or licenses to conduct our business. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or equity or debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain one or more additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 