ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could prevent us from achieving our business objectives and that could hurt our future financial performance and the price performance of our common stock. Such risks and uncertainties also could cause our future financial condition and future financial performance to differ significantly from our current expectations, which are described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Those risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, include the following: A decline in the popularity of high-value collectibles and a resulting decrease in submissions for our services could adversely impact our business. The volume of collectibles submitted to us for authentication and grading is affected by the demand for and market value of those collectibles. As the demand for and value of collectibles increase, authentication and grading submissions, as well as requests by submitters for higher price, faster turn-around times, also increase. However, that also means that a decline in popularity and, therefore in the value, of the collectibles that we authenticate and grade would cause decreases in authentication and grading submissions and in the requests we receive for faster turn-around times and, therefore, also in our revenues and profitability. We have found, over the years, that the popularity of collectibles can vary due to a number of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including perceived scarcity of collectibles, general consumer confidence and trends and their impact on disposable income, precious metals prices, interest rates and other general economic conditions. Declines in general economic conditions could result in decreased demand for our services, which could adversely affect our operating results. The availability of discretionary or disposable income and the confidence of collectors and dealers about future economic conditions are important factors that affect the willingness and ability of collectors and consumers to purchase, and the prices that they are willing to pay for, high-value collectibles. Additionally, declines in the confidence and reductions in the cash flows of, and reductions in credit that is available to collectibles dealers, can adversely affect their ability to purchase high-value collectibles and to sell collectibles that may have declined in value due to adverse changes in economic conditions of this nature. Declines in purchases and sales, and in the value of collectibles usually result, in turn, in declines in the use of authentication and grading services, as such services are most often used by sellers and purchasers of collectibles in conjunction with and to facilitate sale and purchase transactions. As a result, economic uncertainties, downturns and recessions can and do adversely affect our operating results by (i) reducing the frequency with which collectibles dealers and collectors submit their coins, trading cards and other collectibles for authentication and grading including, in particular, modern coins, trading cards and stamps, primarily because authentication and grading fees are relatively high in relation to the value of such collectibles; (ii) causing collectibles dealers and collectors to request longer turn-around times with respect to the collectibles they submit to us for grading, which would reduce our revenues, gross profit margin and operating results, and (iii) reducing the ability of customers to pay outstanding accounts receivable. The continuing economic recession and credit crisis in the United States that adversely affected our revenues in fiscal 2009 may lead to continued declines in our revenues and financial results. Revenues in all our grading and authentication businesses declined by 9% in fiscal year 2009, compared to fiscal year 2008, which we believe was primarily due to the economic recession and banking and credit crisis that prevailed throughout fiscal 2009 and which are continuing into fiscal 2010. While our total coin grading and authentication revenues increased by 14% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, there is no assurance that this represents a trend that will continue into 2010 nor that our other grading and authentication businesses will continue to experience declines in revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, compared to the same period of the prior year. We believe, uncertain economic conditions and the lack of credit will continue to make business conditions challenging and could adversely affect our results of operations in fiscal 2010. 16 Temporary popularity of some collectibles may result in short-term increases, followed by decreases, in the volume of submissions for our services, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate. Temporary consumer popularity or “fads” among collectors or the popularity of certain marketing programs may lead to short-term or temporary increases, followed by decreases, in the volume of collectibles that we authenticate and grade. These trends may result in significant period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results and could result in declines in our net revenues and profitability, not only because of a resulting decline in the volume of authenticating and grading submissions, but also because such trends could lead to increased price competition, which could require us to reduce our authentication and grading fees in order to maintain market share. Our revenues and income depend significantly on revenues generated by our coin authentication and grading services. A decrease in the level of submissions for these services, which historically has been impacted by changes in economic conditions, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Coin authentication and grading, related services and product sales accounted for approximately 58%, 58% and 60% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We believe fluctuations in coin grading submissions can be due, at least in part, to (i) economic downturns which can result in a decline in consumer confidence and disposable income and, therefore, the willingness of dealers and collectors to buy collectible coins, and (ii) the performance of the stock markets, the level of interest rates and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar, which can lead investors to shift some of their investments between stocks and bonds and precious metals. The lack of diversity in our sources of revenues and our dependence on coin authentication and grading submissions for a majority of our net revenues make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in these economic conditions. These adverse changes include fluctuations in the value of precious metals or recessionary conditions that could result in declines in collectibles authentication and grading submissions generally or, more particularly, in collectible coin submissions that would, in turn, result in reductions in our total net revenues, gross margin and operating results. Our top five customers account for approximately 10% of our total net revenues. During the year ended June 30, 2009, five of our customers accounted, in the aggregate, for approximately 10% of our total net revenues. As a result, the loss of any of those customers, each of which is a collectibles dealer, or a lower level of grading submissions by any of those customers, could cause our net revenues to decline and, therefore, could harm our operating results. Moreover, historically, same day on-site authentication and grading submissions at trade shows, on which we realize higher margins than on other submissions, have represented a significant portion of the authentication and grading submissions we have received from these customers. Consequently, a material decline in trade show attendance or submissions by these customers would adversely affect our revenues and gross margin and, therefore, our operating results in the future. There are risks associated with new service offerings, with which we have little experience. We seek to introduce new services that we might offer to our existing authentication and grading customers as a means of increasing our net revenues and profitability. Those new services, however, may prove to be unprofitable and negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our performance is greatly dependent on the performance of our senior management and certain other key employees. As a result, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key management employees could harm our business. Some of our executive officers and key employees are experts in the collectibles markets and have industry-wide reputations for authentication and grading of collectibles. In particular, the loss of David G. Hall, our President, could have a negative effect on our reputation for expertise in the collectible coin market and could lead to a reduction in coin authentication and grading submissions to us. We are dependent on our collectibles experts. In certain of our markets, there are a limited number of individuals who have the expertise to authenticate and grade collectibles, and competition for available collectibles experts is intense. Accordingly, our business and our growth initiatives are heavily dependent on our ability (i) to retain our existing collectibles experts, who have developed relatively 17 unique skills and enjoy a reputation for being experts within the collectibles markets, and (ii) to implement personnel programs that will enable us to add collectibles experts, as necessary, to grow our business and offset employee turnover that can occur from time to time. If we are not successful in retaining our existing collectibles experts or in hiring and training new collectibles experts, this could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, some of our experts could leave our Company to join a competitor or start a competing business. We could suffer losses on authentication and grading warranties. We issue an authenticity or grading warranty with every coin, trading card and stamp that we authenticate or grade. Those warranties provide that: § if any coin, trading card or stamp that we authenticated and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases is later determined not to have been genuine, we would have to purchase the collectible at the price paid for it by its then owner; and § if any coin, trading card or stamp that we graded and sealed in our tamper-evident plastic cases later receives a lower grade upon resubmission to us for grading, we would be obligated either to purchase the collectible at the price paid by its then owner or to pay the difference in its value at its original grade, as compared to its value at the lower grade. We have no insurance coverage for claims made under these warranties and, therefore, we maintain reserves for such warranty claims based on historical experience. However, there is no assurance that these warranty reserves will prove to be adequate and, if they are not, our gross margin and operating results could be harmed. As a result, we monitor the adequacy of our warranty reserves on an on-going basis. During 2008, we unexpectedly received certain coin grading warranty claims that were significant when compared to our prior warranty claims experience. As a result, we recognized an additional expense of $822,000 in the second quarter of 2008 to provide for those claims. We also increased our warranty accrual rate, effective January 1, 2008, to reflect this higher warranty claims experience. Those actions contributed to an increase in our costs of sales in fiscal year 2008 and, therefore, reduced the earnings that we would otherwise have earned from our continuing operations. Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. Although there are few major competitors in the collectibles authentication and grading markets in which we currently operate, competition in these markets is, nevertheless, intense. Increased competition in our collectibles markets could adversely affect our pricing and profit margins and our ability to achieve further growth, and we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors in our collectibles markets. Also, if we were to enter into new collectibles markets, it is likely we would face intense competition from competitors in those markets who are likely to have greater brand name recognition and long term relationships with collectibles dealers and individual collectors in those markets than we will have. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to generate profits and could cause us to incur losses in those markets and damage our financial condition. We may be unable to sublet leased facilities that we no longer occupy in New York, which could adversely affect our cash flows. We continue to have obligations to pay rent and other charges under two leases for office facilities in New York City that had been occupied by our jewelry businesses prior to our discontinuance of and exit from those businesses in fiscal 2009. The remaining duration of those leases is more than seven years ending in 2017, during which we are obligated to pay rent and other charges under those leases which, as of June 30, 2009, totaled approximately $7,800,000. In an effort to reduce those financial obligations, we have engaged an independent commercial real estate brokerage firm to find subtenants for these offices. The extent to which we will be able to reduce those obligations will depend primarily on the time it will take to sublet those offices and rents we will be able to charge the subtenants, which will be determined primarily by economic conditions in the New York City rental market over which we have no control. As a result, we can not predict the extent to which we will be able to reduce those financial obligations and until such time as we are able to sublet these facilities, we will have to pay the rents and other charges under the leases for these facilities, which will reduce our cash flows and, therefore, could adversely affect our financial condition and increase the losses from discontinued operations that we will have to record in the future, which will have the effect of reducing our net earnings. 18 Due to the uncertainties regarding the extent to which we will be able to reduce the financial obligations under those leases by subletting the offices, we established accruals totaling $4,454,000 for the rents and other charges that we estimated we will have to pay through the expiration of the leases. If conditions in the rental market in New York City were to continue to deteriorate, it would become necessary for us to increase the accrual by a charge to discontinued operations that would have the effect of reducing our net earnings. Our reliance on a single source for principally all of our “tamper-evident,” clear plastic coin and trading card holders exposes us to potential supply and quality problems. We place all of the coins, trading cards and currency notes, and sometimes also the stamps that we authenticate and grade, in tamper-evident, clear plastic holders. In order to take advantage of volume pricing discounts, we purchase substantially all of those holders, on a purchase order basis, from one principal supplier. Our reliance on a single supplier for a substantial portion of those plastic holders exposes us to the potential for delay in our ability to deliver timely authentication and grading services in the event that supplier were to terminate its services to us or encounter financial or production problems. If, in such an event, we were unable to obtain replacement holders in a relatively short period of time, we could lose customer orders, or incur additional production costs. In addition, if the replacement holders were not of comparable quality to our existing supplier, we could expose ourselves to the potential for additional warranty claims in the event that tampering with our holders was not evident. These occurrences could cause a decline in our net revenues and increases in our costs of sales which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks, and we are vulnerable to system failure due to a lack of redundant systems at another location. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer systems that we use in our authentication and grading operations and to maintain our websites against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events. In this regard, Southern California, where we are primarily located, is particularly vulnerable to earthquakes and fires that could result in damage to our computer systems. We do not have redundant computer systems at any locations that are remote from Southern California. Any damage to or failure of our computer systems could cause an interruption in our services that could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure from damage that could occur from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the technology that we employ in our operations. Computer break-ins and security breaches also could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which could cause us to incur significant liability and possibly also damage our reputation. Other disruptions due to problems on the Internet or actions of Internet users could make it difficult for our customers to access our websites. In either case, problems of this nature could adversely affect our business and operating results, and security breaches that would adversely affect the privacy of customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their business relationships with us. Although we intend to continue to implement and upgrade sophisticated technology to prevent such disruptions and damage, there is no assurance that our security measures will prove to be adequate or successful. We rely on third parties for various Internet and processing services. Our operations depend on a number of third parties for Internet access and delivery services. We have limited control over these third parties and no long-term relationships with any of them. For example, we do not own a gateway onto the Internet, but, instead, rely on Internet service providers to connect our website to the Internet. Should the third parties that we rely on for Internet access or delivery services be unable to serve our needs for a sustained time period as a result of a strike, natural disaster or for any other reason, our revenues and business could be harmed. Acquisitions and the commencement of new businesses present risks, and we may be unable to achieve the financial and strategic goals of any acquisition or commencement of any new business. While we are not currently focused on business acquisitions, there may be opportunities that present themselves in the future to acquire existing businesses or commence new businesses that would give us the opportunity to offer additional services to our existing customers or enter into new markets and, thereby increase our revenues and our earnings. The purchase or commencement of a new business presents a number of risks and uncertainties, including 19 (i) difficulties in integrating the new business into our existing operations, as a result of which we may incur increased operating costs that can adversely affect our operating results; (ii) the risk that our current and planned facilities, computer systems and personnel and controls will not be adequate to support our expanded operations; (iii) diversion of management time and capital resources from our existing businesses, which could adversely affect their performance and our operating results; (iv) dependence on key management personnel of the acquired or newly started businesses and the risk that we will be unable to integrate or retain such personnel; and (v) the risk that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or of the commencement of any new business may not be realized, in which event we will not be able to achieve an acceptable return or we may incur losses on our investment. We are exposed to potential risks and we will continue to incur costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have documented and tested the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 since fiscal 2005, we expect we will continue to incur costs in order to maintain compliance with that Section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to our practices, or if our internal procedures applied for testing internal controls prove to be inadequate, our reputation may be harmed or we may be subject to litigation. We depend on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe that our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual and other proprietary rights may prove to be inadequate to prevent imitation of our services or products or to prevent others from claiming violations of their intellectual and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may develop similar trade secrets or other intellectual property independently or assert rights in our intellectual and other proprietary rights that could lead them to seek to block sales of our services based on allegations that use of some of our marks or other intellectual property constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights. Our unregistered trademarks could conflict with trademarks of others. We have not conducted an exhaustive search of possible prior users of our unregistered trademarks or service marks, including Coin Universe, Collectors.com and PSE. Therefore, it is possible that our use of some of these trademarks or service marks may conflict with the rights of others. As a result, we could face litigation or lose the use of some of these trademarks or service marks, which could have an adverse effect on our name recognition and result in a decrease in our revenues and an increase in our expenses. The imposition of government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. With the exception of state laws applicable to autograph authentication, the collectible coin and other high-value collectibles markets are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation. However, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles and, therefore, also to a decline in the volume of coins, trading cards and other collectibles that are submitted to us for authentication and grading. The repurchase of our shares of common stock in July 2009 may reduce the public float for our shares, which may reduce trading activity and adversely affect the trading value and liquidity of our common stock. In July 2009, we completed a modified “Dutch Auction” tender offer pursuant to which we repurchased a total of 1,749,828 of our outstanding shares of common stock, reducing the number of our shares that are outstanding to approximately 7,408,516. Of those outstanding shares, affiliates of the Company own a total of approximately 1,275,000 shares, the salability of which is restricted under applicable securities laws and which are, as a result, not included in our public float. As a result, the trading volume of our shares may decline, which would reduce the liquidity of our shares, making it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress, and make it more difficult to achieve increases in, the trading prices of our shares. 20 If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our future financial results difficult and uncertain. These factors include: § increases or decreases in number of collectibles graded from period to period; § changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for our authentication and grading services, such as a decline in the popularity of certain collectibles and volatility in the prices of gold and other precious metals; § changes in economic conditions that reduce the availability of disposable income and may cause collectors and collectibles dealers to reduce their purchases of collectibles, which could result in declines in the demand for the services we provide; and § the actions of our competitors. If, as a result of these or other conditions or factors, our quarterly operating results fall below expectations, securities market analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced declines in the trading price of their shares due to events of this nature have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, thus harming our business. Provisions in our charter documents or in Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult or delay a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders: § our board of directors has the authority to issue additional common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; § there are limitations on who can call special meetings of our stockholders; and § stockholders may not take action by written consent. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Furthermore, on January 9, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors unanimously adopted a limited duration Stockholder Rights Plan, which could make a takeover attempt more costly for a potential acquirer and could delay or even prevent a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 21 