ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business environment involves substantial risks and uncertainty, including, but not limited to, the specific risks identified below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that impair our business operations. Any of these risks could cause or contribute to causing our actual results to differ materially from expectations. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The section headings in this Item 1A have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not modify or constitute a part of the individual Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy We are pursuing an acquisition strategy which may not enhance value for stockholders. Since the completion of the Asset Sale, we have been seeking to redeploy our cash to maximize value for our stockholders and are seeking, analyzing and evaluating potential acquisition candidates. Our goal is to redeploy our existing assets to acquire, or invest in, one or more operating businesses with solid fundamentals and cash flow which could create value for our shareholders, and where existing or prospective taxable income (or the ability to generate capital gains) might be offset by use of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. We are using a value-focused investment strategy and have been focusing our acquisition search on U.S.-based businesses. We continue to identify and review candidates for acquisition or other investment. We may not be able to identify any acquisition candidate at a price we consider fair and appropriate. If we do identify a suitable acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully and satisfactorily negotiate the terms of an acquisition. Furthermore, if we are successful in completing an acquisition, the integration of the acquired business will involve a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. Therefore, we cannot assure that our acquisition strategy will enhance value to stockholders. A significant portion of our working capital could be expended in pursuing business combinations that are not consummated. We expect that the investigation of each specific acquisition target and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs, including, but not limited to, costs for accountants, attorneys and other advisors. In 2011, our total cash flow from operations spent pursuant to this strategy totaled approximately $1.2 million. Our declining cash may continue at this rate, or at a higher rate as we determine is appropriate, until such time as we are able to complete an acquisition. In addition, we may determine to pay finders’, exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating business combinations. If we decide not to further pursue a specific business combination, the costs incurred, which may include finders’, exclusivity or similar fees, may not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific acquisition target, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another business. We may determine to pursue a transaction which limits our ability to use some or all of our substantial net operating loss carryforwards. We are currently seeking to make one or more acquisitions to maximize value to all stockholders, which may benefit from the utilization of our substantial NOL carryforwards as of the date hereof. However, we will pursue any acquisition or transaction which the Board believes to be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, and NOL carryforwards will be one of several factors considered by the Board in determining whether to pursue any such transaction. The Board may determine to pursue a transaction which limits our ability to use some or all of our NOL carryforwards. In addition, if we are unable to complete an acquisition, we may lose some or all of our NOL carryforwards, or they may expire. Our federal NOL carryforwards began expiring in 2011 and will expire by 2031, with the majority of such NOLs expiring by 2022. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of an acquisition target. If the proceeds from the Asset Sale are insufficient for a proposed acquisition, we may be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other arrangements to finance the transaction. Due to the fact that we currently have no income other than interest received on our cash deposits, borrowing requirements and other factors, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we may be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative acquisition targets. In addition, if we complete a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of an acquisition target, which may be unavailable to us. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our combined business or businesses. 5 Until we select particular industries or target businesses in which to invest, stockholders will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the industries or businesses in which we may ultimately operate. We are seeking to acquire a company with principal business operations in one or more industries that provide opportunities for growth. We are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for stockholders to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular industries in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses in which we may invest. Although we will evaluate the risks inherent in any target business in which we determine to invest, we cannot assure you that all of the material risks related to such business will be properly assessed. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect or predict. Risks Related to Our Company and Assets We expect net losses for the foreseeable future due to low interest rates and because we have no operating business. Following the Asset Sale completed on December 23, 2009, we have no operating business and our assets consist primarily of cash. Our sole source of income is interest received on our cash deposits. Due to current low interest rates, we do not expect material income until we are able to acquire an operating business. Additionally, we expect to incur expenses in connection with our acquisitions search, as well as expenses of being a public company. Until these conditions change, the Company expects to incur net losses. We are a shell company under the federal securities laws which will subject us to additional costs and disclosure requirements. Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, (the "Securities Act") as amended, and Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Exchange Act") a shell company is any company with nominal operations and assets consisting of cash and nominal other assets. We are a shell company under federal securities laws. Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using (i) a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans for so long as we are a shell company and for a period of 60 days thereafter, and (ii) Form S-3 for the registration of a primary offering of securities for so long as we are a shell company and for 12 months thereafter. Additionally, Form 8-K requires shell companies to provide more detailed disclosure upon completion of a transaction that causes it to cease being a shell company. To the extent that we acquire a business in the future, we must file a current report on Form 8-K containing the financial and other information required in a registration statement on Form 10 within four business days following completion of such a transaction. To the extent that we are required to comply with additional disclosure as we are a shell company, we may be delayed in executing any mergers or acquiring other assets that would cause us to cease being a shell company. In addition, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” may not be allowed to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144. Preclusion from any prospective purchase using the exemptions from registration afforded by Rule 144 may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future, and the inability to utilize registration statements on Forms S-8 and S-3 would likely increase our cost to register securities in the future. Additionally, the loss of the use of Rule 144 and Forms S-3 and S-8 may make investments in our securities less attractive to investors and may make the offering and sale of our securities to employees, directors and others under compensatory arrangements more expensive and less attractive to recipients. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold them fail. Our cash and cash equivalents may be held in the form of cash or marketable securities and are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. Currently, our cash and cash equivalents consist entirely of cash, but we may determine to invest in marketable securities at a later date. We maintain our cash with two reputable major financial institutions and would maintain any cash equivalents with reputable financial institutions. Deposits of cash with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While we regularly monitor the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if either of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. We can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash or cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets or the financial status of the financial institutions in which we maintain our cash. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Since October 2005, our common stock has been quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). The OTCBB is generally considered less efficient than exchanges such as The New York Stock Exchange and The NASDAQ Stock Market. Quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB may reduce the liquidity of our securities, limit the number of investors who trade in our securities, result in a lower stock price and larger spread in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may become subject to the SEC rules that affect “penny stocks,” which are stocks below $5.00 per share that are not quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market. These SEC rules would make it more difficult for brokers to find buyers for our securities and could lower the net sales prices that our stockholders are able to obtain. If our price of common stock remains low, we may not be able to raise equity capital. 6 Our listing on the OTCBB and our low stock price may greatly impair our ability to raise any future necessary capital through equity or debt financing and significantly increase the dilution to our current stockholders caused by any issuance of equity in financing or other transactions. The price at which we would issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock, and a decline in the stock price could result in our need to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding. In addition, because our common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, we are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds will not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting will result in additional costs. Our continuing preparation for and implementation of various corporate governance reforms and enhanced disclosure laws and regulations adopted in recent years requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We are subject to accounting disclosures required by laws and regulations adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). In particular, we are required to provide a report on our internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. Any failure to timely prepare for and implement the reforms required by new laws and regulations could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have adopted charter and bylaw provisions and a Rights Agreement that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company. The Board has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, the Board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of common stock. Although the ability to issue this preferred stock provides us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, it can also be used to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. Additionally, we have a stockholder rights plan that is intended to protect our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards and which would also make it difficult for a third party to acquire a significant number of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest. Furthermore, the Board is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year. In addition, directors are only removable by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all classes of voting stock. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of the Company. Our ability to execute our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to retain qualified management and/or advisors. To pursue our acquisition strategy following the closing of the Asset Sale, we will continue to require management with experience in identifying attractive acquisition candidates and executing acquisition transactions. Given the specialized nature of these skills and the fact that the Company faces competition in completing acquisitions, the inability of the Company to recruit and/or retain a talented management team could have a detrimental effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to execute our strategy. If we invest in securities, we could be required to register as an Investment Company under the Investment Company Act, which would be costly and could significantly limit our ability to operate and acquire a business. 7 The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), requires registration as an investment company, for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. We are not engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities. However, a company may fall within the scope of being an “inadvertent investment company” under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the such Act if the value of its investment securities (as defined in the Investment Company Act) is more than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash and certain cash equivalents). Currently, our assets consist primarily of cash and nominal other assets. We are pursuing an acquisition strategy. While our goal is to acquire one or more operating businesses, we may determine to invest in securities of another company in connection with such goal. If we were unable to rely on an exclusion under the Investment Company Act and were deemed to be an inadvertent investment company due to an investment in marketable securities or otherwise, we would be forced to comply with substantive requirements of the Investment Company Act, including: (i) limitations on our ability to borrow; (ii) limitations on our capital structure; (iii) restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; (iv) prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; (v) restrictions on specific investments; (vi) limitations on our ability to issue stock options; and (vii) compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company would subject us to additional costs, which may be substantial, and restrictions that would significantly impair our ability to pursue our fundamental business strategy of acquiring and operating an established business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 