Risk Factors Set forth below is a description of certain factors that may affect our results of operations or financial condition or investments in our shares or ADSs from time to time. The risks have been classified as (i) strategic risks, (ii) operational risks, (iii) financial risks and (iv) hazard risks. (i) Strategic risks We face significant competition from multinational and local competitors, who may offer our customers competing products with more attractive prices. The paper and forest products markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We have, from time to time, experienced price pressures from competitors in our main business areas and geographic markets and we have experienced particularly large fluctuations in operating margins due to this competitive environment. We principally compete with a number of large multinational paper and forest products companies as well as with numerous regional or more specialized competitors. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources to respond to these competitive pressures and to continue to make investments in our manufacturing facilities or in product development at the same level as in previous years. A failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position. Shifts in consumer preferences, including the trend toward a greater use of computers and electronic media, can materially affect the demand for our products and our financial results. Over the last several decades, consumer expectations with respect to paper used for such items as books, catalogues, magazines, newspapers, advertising and direct mail literature, packaging and label materials and other similar uses have become both more demanding and more diverse as advances in technology have allowed paper manufacturers to produce a greater variety and higher quality of paper at a lower cost. The trend towards a greater use of computers and electronic media may have an effect on consumption patterns for paper in the future. In addition, as consumers have become more environmentally conscious, consumer preferences have also shifted towards paper products, which contain a proportion of recycled fiber. Our ability to continue to meet the shifting demands of consumers in the paper market depends upon a variety of factors, including our ability to foresee and/or identify changes in consumer preferences, the technical capabilities of our manufacturing facilities, the speed of, and the costs associated with, the shifting of production at such facilities and the success of our various research and development programs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully adapt to future changes in consumer demands or that such changes will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our competitiveness may be negatively affected to the extent we are unable to enter into successful mergers and acquisitions or to integrate and manage acquired operations. The paper and forest products industry has in the past experienced and may continue to experience further consolidation, driven, in part, by a desire to achieve economies of scale and synergies. We may seek growth through acquisitions or mergers to stay competitive or to enter into new areas of operation. Such acquisitions may not be available to us, or may not be available at the times or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the mergers and acquisitions which we might enter into or make could involve certain risks, including those concerning our ability to successfully integrate and manage acquired operations and personnel, as well as to successfully achieve the economies of scale or synergies sought. The integration of 5 acquired businesses may also lead to a possible deterioration of our financial condition, a loss of key employees of the acquired companies or a diversion of management attention away from other ongoing business concerns. If valuation premises in the case of a merger or acquisition prove to be incorrect, for example, in the case of demand and product pricing, we may be required to record material impairment charges in future periods. We cannot be certain that our existing product and geographical diversification will ensure adequate returns in the future. We seek to generate profits through managing a balanced product portfolio and maintaining a diversified geographical presence. Although we believe that our current product portfolio and geographic diversification is rather appropriately balanced, changes in consumer behavior may affect demand for our main products in our major markets and there can be no assurance that our current product portfolio and geographical diversification will be best-suited for successful business operations and ensure adequate returns in the future. Although our customer base is numerous and diverse, the loss of one or a group of major customers could have an adverse impact on our business. We sell a significant portion of our products to several major customers, including certain significant printing houses and merchant distributors, which resell our products. Although we are not dependent on any specific customer or group of customers, the loss of one or more of our major customers, if not replaced on similar terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 15% of our sales in 2006 and our largest customer accounted for approximately 3%. In addition, each of our divisions and business units have major customers that, although not necessarily material to our Group as a whole, are important to the operations of such divisions and business units. We are subject to significant environmental regulations. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing, among other things, wood procurement, use of recycled material and different forms of production discharges and emissions. We have made substantial investments in environmental management covering areas such as wood procurement, use of recycled material, emissions into air, water discharges and use of energy. We are currently not involved in any major legal proceedings concerning environmental matters that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, nor is management aware of any claims or potential liability concerning environmental matters that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, the risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in industrial operations, including the paper and forest products industry, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred in the future or that the adoption of increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could not result in substantially increased costs and liabilities in the future. Our operations in emerging market countries where we operate could be adversely affected by unexpected political, economic or legal developments. We have manufacturing operations in certain emerging market countries, including, among other such countries, China and Russia. The political, economic and legal systems in these countries may be less predictable than in countries with more established and sustained institutional structures. Political or economic upheaval and changes in laws may have a material adverse effect on our operations in these countries and, in turn, the amount of income from, and the value of, the investments we have made in relation to our operations in such countries. Our investment or procurement activities in these countries 6 may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, such as unfavorable taxation treatment, exchange controls, inflation, currency fluctuations and nationalization. Emerging markets represented approximately 16% of our sales of €10.0 billion in 2006. (ii) Operational risks Our financial performance is influenced by the cyclicality of the markets and pricing fluctuations for paper and forest products. The markets for paper and forest products are cyclical, being characterized by periods of imbalance between supply and demand. The general economic conditions of the major economic regions are the primary determinants of the demand for paper and forest products, as demand and consumption generally correlate with overall economic activity. Prices of paper and forest products can fluctuate significantly when supply and demand become imbalanced. These demand-supply imbalances may also be caused by inventory build-up and reduction and not necessarily by changes in end-consumption. During periods of weaker economic growth, the capacity build-up can cause oversupply in the market and lower prices. Similarly, strong economic growth in main market areas can lead to paper shortages and result in significant price increases. In particular, the price of pulp, which is a raw material used by some of our divisions and is also produced by us, has fluctuated significantly, while our principal product groups have experienced somewhat lesser price fluctuations. In addition, many of our products are sold in markets with established regional or world market prices, which fluctuate as a result of supply and demand imbalances. There can be no assurance that current price levels for our products will be maintained, that any additional price increases will be achieved or that the industry will not add new capacity, thereby potentially causing an imbalance between supply and demand. We rely on third-party suppliers for significant amounts of our raw materials. Disruptions in our supply chain and fluctuations in the prices of these materials could materially affect our business. In 2006, we relied on third-party suppliers for more than 85% of our wood requirements and approximately 30% of our electric power needs. Other production inputs, such as chemicals, fillers and recovered paper are solely purchased from third-party suppliers. In the event of a significant interruption or limitation in the supply of these production inputs from our current suppliers, we would seek to obtain them from other sources. However, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so without an adverse impact on our manufacturing operations, such as an interruption or downscaling of production or change in the product mix, or increased costs. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to implement our strategies depends on our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees. To meet the challenges of sustained growth and improving the efficiency of our operations, we must continue to recruit and retain skilled employees. We are continuously evaluating our recruiting, compensation and career development policies and taking measures to attract and retain skilled personnel. However, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter shortages of sufficient numbers of appropriately skilled personnel in the future. Such shortages could have a negative effect on our business operations. We cannot be certain that our internal control measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting processes. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent and detect fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our financial results could be negatively affected. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose 7 confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares and other securities. We and certain of our subsidiaries are the subjects of investigation by antitrust authorities in various parts of the world, and named as defendants in civil litigation in the United States concerning allegedly anti-competitive conduct. In 2003, UPM directed its outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation of UPM's and its subsidiaries' compliance with competition laws in the United States and other jurisdictions where the companies conduct business. Following this internal investigation, UPM decided to approach competition law authorities in the European Union, the United States and Canada, and, subsequently, in certain other countries, to disclose any conduct that did not comport with applicable competition laws, and to strengthen its competition law compliance programs. UPM has created an EU Competition Law Compliance Manual and has initiated a comprehensive competition law training program for all its employees. The competition authorities have continued their investigations into alleged antitrust activities with respect to various products of UPM. The U.S. Department of Justice, the relevant authorities of the European Union and the authorities in several of its member states, Canada and certain other countries, have informed UPM that it has received conditional full immunity with respect to certain conduct disclosed to the authorities. During 2006, the investigations of the U.S. labelstock industry and European fine paper, newsprint, magazine paper, label paper and self-adhesive labelstock markets were closed by the U.S. Department of Justice and the European Commission competition authority. In addition, in December 2006, the Finnish Competition Authority decided not to propose a fine to us in connection with its investigation of raw wood procurement in Finland. UPM and its subsidiary, UPM Raflatac Inc., along with certain labelstock manufacturers, have been named as defendants in a number of class-action lawsuits filed in U.S. District Courts by the Company's customers and in state courts by customers of the Company's customers. These lawsuits allege that the defendants violated federal and/or state antitrust laws by conspiring with one another to fix the prices of and allocate the markets for labelstock products. The complaints seek treble or punitive damages for alleged overcharges resulting from the purported conspiracy. UPM and its subsidiary, UPM-Kymmene, Inc., have also been named as a defendant in class-action lawsuits making similar allegations against manufacturers of magazine papers. These complaints, like the labelstock complaints, seek treble or punitive damages for alleged overcharges resulting from the purported conspiracy. In an unrelated development, on May 3, 2004, UPM received a Statement of Objection from the European Commission concerning alleged anti-competitive activities in the market for plastic industrial sacks. UPM manufactured plastic industrial sacks until December 2000, when the business was sold. In November 2005, the European Commission imposed on UPM a fine of €56.55 million concerning antitrust activities in the market for plastic industrial sacks. UPM has paid the fine but has appealed the decision. In the aggregate, these matters may implicate or result in substantial adverse publicity, penalties and damages. It is possible that any ultimate liability could be material to UPM's financial position, results of operations and cash flow. At this time, however, and in light of our cooperation with the authorities, and due to the considerable uncertainties associated with these matters, it is not possible for us to estimate any potential liability. We will continue to consider the need to establish loss provisions in light of future developments. 8 (iii) Financial risks Our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates can have a significant effect on our financial results. As a consequence of the global nature of our business, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in exchange rates, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency risk exposure primarily affects our export operations to the extent our sales are denominated in currencies other than those in which manufacturing costs are incurred (e.g., non-euro denominated sales by our operations based in the EU member states participating in the EMU or U.S. dollar-denominated sales by our Canadian operations). In general, the introduction of the euro has reduced our exposure to such currency risk. Nevertheless, a significant portion of our sales are denominated in currencies (consisting primarily of the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling) other than the euro. In addition, our reported earnings may be affected by fluctuations between the euro and the non-euro currencies in which our various foreign subsidiaries report their results of operations when such results of operations are translated back into euro. To manage exposure to such exchange rate fluctuations, we closely monitor our exposure to currency risks and seek to hedge such risks using certain financial instruments, including forward foreign exchange agreements and currency swaps. There can be no assurance, however, that currency exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar or the British pound sterling, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. Further, changes in interest rates may have a considerable impact on the values of our assets (biological assets for example), which are valued on a discounted cash flow model. See "Item 5. Sensitivity Analysis" and "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve may increase the likelihood of payment defaults by our customers and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We face the risk of nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers in connection with the sale of our products. In particular continued weakness in the general economic environment may result in increased defaults by customers and increased losses. We have various programs in place to monitor and mitigate customer credit risk and we have insurance policies covering most of our trade receivables. (iv) Hazard risks Although we maintain extensive insurance coverage for our operations, various events, such as natural catastrophes or sabotage, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We operate a significant number of manufacturing facilities all over the world, most of which we own. We are also the largest private owner of forestland in Finland. We currently have in place a program consisting of a number of different insurance policies that cover property damage and losses due to the interruption of any of our businesses, subject to applicable terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Management believes that this coverage is adequate to cover risks resulting from possible damage to our property or the interruption of any of our business operations. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance program would be sufficient to cover potential catastrophes, such as war, terrorism or natural disasters. 