D. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on AIXTRON's financial position, results of operations, liquidity and the actual outcome of matters that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report refer to. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. There may be additional risks AIXTRON is currently unaware of, and risks that are common to most companies. There may also be risks that AIXTRON now believes are immaterial, but which may ultimately have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, liquidity and the actual outcome of matters that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report refer to. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, see "Forward-looking statements" included in this annual report. 8 Table of Contents Company-Related Risk The compound semiconductor and the semiconductor industries can be highly volatile and unpredictable, which may adversely affect AIXTRON's operating results and result in significant volatility in the market price of its ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares. The compound semiconductor and the semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry can be affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and its sensitivity to general economic conditions. Although semiconductors are used in many different products, the markets for those products are interrelated to various degrees. The industry has historically experienced sudden changes in supply and demand for semiconductors based on general economic conditions. The timing, length and severity of these industry cycles are difficult to predict. The cyclical nature of AIXTRON's operations tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in economic conditions, both in Asia and internationally, supply/demand imbalances and foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Economic downturns or a prolonged period of slow growth in Asia and foreign markets or any of the industries in which AIXTRON operates that are contributing to a softer demand environment for the Company's products could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, AIXTRON needs to be able to quickly and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to manage its inventory levels to reduce the possibility of future inventory write-downs resulting from obsolescence, and to motivate and retain key employees. Because a high proportion of AIXTRON's costs are fixed in the near term, the Company's ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to revenue shortfalls is limited. During periods of rapid growth, AIXTRON's business must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. The Company's customers often accelerate or delay expenditures, or they cancel or reschedule their orders. Such events may lead to the results of operations being adversely affected, which could result in significant volatility in the market price of the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs in reaction to variations in their businesses or market conditions. As a result, AIXTRON must be able to react quickly to these changes in supply and demand. A failure to quickly align the Company's cost structure and manufacturing capabilities with industry fluctuations could lead to significant losses or a failure to capitalize on increased demand. Uncertainties of economic and political conditions, in particular the global macroeconomic situation, may adversely impact AIXTRON's financial position and results of operations. Global economic development throughout the year 2015 was worse than originally expected, especially in the emerging and developing countries, including China. The main reasons for the reduced growth dynamics in these countries were lower commodity prices, tighter financial conditions, structural bottlenecks and geopolitical factors. Additionally, markets in the Middle East have struggled due to decreasing oil prices throughout 2015 as well as increased uncertainty related to geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. On the other hand, the major growth drivers in the world's advanced economies, such as easy financial conditions, more neutral fiscal policy in the euro area, lower fuel prices, and improving confidence and labor market conditions, remained intact and led to stable growth in these countries. Therefore, as expected the Federal Reserve (the "Fed") has turned to a slightly tighter monetary policy with the first interest rate increase since 2006 taking place in December 2015. The Fed's monetary policy might raise additional uncertainties about the global economic development in the year 2016. Although AIXTRON has no bank borrowings, it has cash bank deposits. AIXTRON monitors carefully the financial condition of its banking partners, but if one of AIXTRON's banking partners were to default before AIXTRON detected the problem or took appropriate measures, this could adversely impact AIXTRON's financial position. A constantly subdued global economic development might adversely affect the business prospects of AIXTRON's customers and suppliers and thus also harm AIXTRON's business development as a capital goods producer. In addition to the potential for pricing pressure and reduced demand, AIXTRON customers might delay or cancel orders and suppliers might delay or cancel deliveries, which could adversely affect AIXTRON's ability to align its production capacity with its sales and could result in inventory write-downs. These conditions might make it challenging for AIXTRON to plan and adapt, which could adversely impact AIXTRON's results of operations. AIXTRON is also subject to U.S. and German export control and economic sanctions laws, which prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in 9 Table of Contents decreased use of AIXTRON products by, or in decreased ability to export or sell products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of AIXTRON products or limitation on the ability to export or sell products would likely adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. AIXTRON depends on a limited number of customers that operate in concentrated industries. AIXTRON's customer base has been in the past and may in the future be highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of the Company's revenues, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to the Company. If a principal customer discontinues its relationship with AIXTRON or suffers economic setbacks, AIXTRON's business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's ability to increase revenues in the future will depend in part upon its ability to obtain orders from new customers. AIXTRON cannot be certain that it will be able to do so. In addition, because a relatively small number of large manufacturers, many of whom are AIXTRON's customers, dominate the industries in which they operate, it may be especially difficult for the Company to replace these customers if it loses their business. A large portion of orders in AIXTRON's order backlog are orders from its principal customers. Furthermore, AIXTRON does not have long-term contracts with many of its customers. The Company's customers may delay existing or new orders because of raw material shortages, credit/liquidity tightness or delays in preparing their facilities. Any such delays could have a negative impact on customer acceptance of AIXTRON's systems, and ultimately, on its ability to generate revenues. As a result, the Company's agreements with its customers do not provide any assurance of future revenues and AIXTRON is exposed to competitive price pressure on most new orders it attempts to obtain. The Company's failure to obtain new orders from new or existing customers would have a negative impact on its results of operations. Because of the significant size of some orders and the limited ability of the Company to reduce expenses quickly in response to such delays, the Company may experience volatility in its results of operations. AIXTRON is dependent on a limited number of suppliers and the Company's operating results could be affected if it loses access to sources of materials or services. The systems that AIXTRON produces are complex and require the Company to manufacture or obtain through third party sources many critical components. Many of these components are only available from a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, even a single supplier. Because of the cost of AIXTRON's systems, the Company generally aims to keep its inventories at minimum levels. AIXTRON generally does not have long-term supply agreements with many of its suppliers. Consequently, the Company could experience significant price increases and/or may not be able to obtain replacement components in a timely manner or at all. Such price increases would increase the cost of goods which could adversely affect the Company's gross margins and operating results. Because AIXTRON often does not account for a significant part of its suppliers' business, the Company may not have access to sufficient capacity from these suppliers in periods of high demand. In addition, AIXTRON risks having important suppliers terminate product lines, change business focus or even go out of business. If AIXTRON were required to change any of its suppliers, it would be required to re-qualify each new supplier. In the near term, the Company's supplier qualification processes could prevent or delay component shipments, which could in turn prevent the Company from delivering products to its customers in a timely manner. AIXTRON estimates that it could take approximately six to eighteen months to replace suppliers of certain critical components used in its systems. In addition, in connection with third-party manufacturing activities, it is possible that AIXTRON may encounter unforeseen technical complexities that it may be unable to resolve, or that the resolution of such complexities may lead to delays in the implementation of these third-party manufacturing activities. AIXTRON's business operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes, and if the Company does not develop new products in a timely manner and in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, it may not be able to compete successfully in this market. The introduction of new products and technologies occurs at a continuously increasing pace and grows increasingly complex over time. If AIXTRON's business does not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its 10 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's competitive advantage and future success depend on its ability to: • develop successfully new products and technologies; • develop new markets for its products and services; • introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner; • qualify new products with its customers; and • commence and adjust production to meet customer demands. In order to compete, AIXTRON must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and its failure to do so could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. In order to compete, AIXTRON must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to the Company's business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, AIXTRON relies heavily on paying cash compensation at market-competitive rates and offering additional incentives and bonus payments. If such cash payments cease to be viewed as a valuable benefit by the Company's key employees, the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate its employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect its results of operations and/or require AIXTRON to increase the amount it expends on cash and other forms of compensation. AIXTRON's competitors may have greater resources than AIXTRON, or may otherwise be better suited to compete in the Company's markets, and AIXTRON's failure to compete successfully with these companies would seriously affect its business. Some of AIXTRON's competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. In addition, AIXTRON faces competition from smaller emerging equipment companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that the Company's semiconductor equipment business offers, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. New product introductions or enhancements by AIXTRON's competitors could cause a decline in revenues or loss of market acceptance of AIXTRON's existing products. Increased competitive pressure could also lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower margins. The Company's failure to compete successfully with these other companies would seriously affect its business. AIXTRON faces lengthy research and development sales and qualification cycles for its new and existing products and, in many cases, must invest a substantial amount of time and funds with no assurance that these efforts or expenditures will result in revenues. Revenues from AIXTRON's systems primarily depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to invest in or upgrade its manufacturing capabilities, which typically involves a significant capital commitment by the customer. Customers usually place orders with AIXTRON between three to nine months, or longer, after the Company's initial contact with them regarding a particular system. AIXTRON often experiences delays in obtaining system orders while customers evaluate and receive internal approvals for the purchase of these systems. These delays may include the time necessary to plan, design or complete a new or expanded semiconductor fabrication facility. Due to these factors, the Company expends substantial funds as well as marketing and management efforts to sell its semiconductor production systems. These expenditures and efforts may not result in revenues. In order to expand its materials production capabilities, the Company has dedicated a number of its systems to the manufacture of wafers and devices. At any given time, some of AIXTRON's products are being tested to determine whether they meet customer or industry specifications. During such a qualification period, AIXTRON invests significant resources and dedicates substantial production capacity to the manufacture of these new products, prior to any commitment to purchase by the prospective customer and without generating significant revenues from the qualification process. Customer orders regularly include demanding technical or other commercial hurdles which have to be overcome. If AIXTRON was unable to meet these specifications, was unable to overcome technical or commercial hurdles or does not receive sufficient customer orders to profitably use the dedicated production capacity, its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, AIXTRON makes efforts to invest in research and develop of new equipment, materials and processes for production of its products. Continued research and development efforts will be needed to stay competitive in the industries in which the Company operates. However, AIXTRON cannot be assured that such investments in research and development would result in successful innovation of the company's equipment, materials or processes AIXTRON's future budgets for operating expenses, capital expenditures, operating leases and service contracts are based upon the Company's assumptions as to the anticipated market acceptance of its products. If AIXTRON's products do not meet the expected customer demand, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. AIXTRON's quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly, which may cause the market price of its ordinary shares and its ADSs to increase or decrease significantly. AIXTRON has historically experienced significant fluctuations in its quarterly operating results and the Company anticipates that such fluctuations will continue. AIXTRON's results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: • changes in the semiconductor market environment; • changes in regulations affecting the semiconductor industry; • changes in the mix or cost of its products and services; • the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products and services offered by AIXTRON or its competitors; and • exchange rate fluctuations, in particular between the Euro, the US-Dollar and the Pound Sterling. In addition, the Company derives a substantial portion of its revenues in any fiscal period from the sale of a relatively small number of high-priced systems. As a result, the timing of recognition of revenue for a single transaction could have a material effect on total revenues and operating results for a particular reporting period. A delay of only a week or two can often shift the related realization of revenues into the next quarter, which could adversely affect the Company's ability to meet expectations. In addition, customers at times attempt to cancel or reschedule orders, even when not permitted to do so under the contractual terms of the purchase order. As stated above, AIXTRON has experienced long and unpredictable sales cycles. The timing of an order often depends on the capital expenditure budget cycle of customers. In addition, the time it takes the Company to build a product to customer specifications, which the Company refers to as the build cycle, typically ranges from three to nine months, followed in certain cases by a period of customer acceptance during which the customer evaluates the performance of AIXTRON's system and may potentially reject such system. As a result of the build cycle and evaluation periods, the period between a customer's initial purchase decision and revenue recognition on an order often varies widely, and variations in length of this period can cause further fluctuations in operating results. The factors described above, together with the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, could cause the market price of AIXTRON's ordinary shares and its ADSs to fluctuate significantly. AIXTRON's business is exposed to the risks of operating an international business. AIXTRON's business has operations located in many countries throughout the world to support the Company's sales and services to the global semiconductor industry. Managing international operations located in many countries throughout the world presents complex management challenges. These challenges may make it more difficult for AIXTRON to implement business strategies and enforce centralized business processes and controls across its enterprise. AIXTRON is highly dependent on international revenues, particularly revenues from Asian countries. Revenues outside of Europe accounted for 81.91% of the Company's total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, versus 87.00% for the year ended December 31, 2014, and 86.76% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. Revenues from AIXTRON's Asian-based customers accounted for 59.86% for the year ended December 31, 2015, versus 82.68% for the year ended December 31, 2014, and 77.54% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. AIXTRON anticipates that international revenues, including revenues from Asia, will continue to account for a 12 Table of Contents significant portion of its revenues. As a result, a significant portion of the Company's revenues will be subject to risks, including: • unexpected changes in foreign law or regulatory requirements; • exchange rate volatility; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • military confrontation; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • extended payment terms; • difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; • difficulties in staffing its subsidiaries; • difficulties in managing foreign subsidiary operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Wherever currency devaluations occur abroad, AIXTRON's products become more expensive for its customers in that country. In addition, difficult economic conditions may limit capital spending by the Company's customers. These circumstances may also affect the ability of AIXTRON's customers to meet their payment obligations, resulting in cancellations or deferrals of existing orders and the limitation of additional orders. Exchange rate fluctuations, in particular between the Euro, the US-Dollar and the Pound Sterling, could adversely affect AIXTRON's ability to price its products competitively and its operating results. The Company's operations are conducted by entities in many countries and a substantial portion of its sales and production costs are denominated in currencies other than the Euro. As a result, fluctuations between the value of the Euro and other major currencies, in particular the US-Dollar and the Pound Sterling, may affect the Company's operating results. In addition, changes in monetary or other policies, including as a result of the regionally unbalanced economic development as well as geopolitical conflicts, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. AIXTRON may not be able to effectively reduce or eliminate the risk that fluctuations in foreign currencies will adversely affect its operating results. Further details can be found in "Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk." Because AIXTRON's operating income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions, the Company is exposed to a number of different tax risks. Because AIXTRON operates in a number of countries throughout the world, including the U.S., its operating income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. AIXTRON seeks to organize its affairs in a tax efficient and balanced manner, taking into account the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates. As a result of the Company's multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks, including tax risks related to: income tax, value added tax, payroll tax, social security tax, customs and excise duties, sales and use tax, U.S. state tax, withholding tax requirements, tax treaty interpretation, tax credits, permanent establishments, transfer pricing on internal deliveries of goods and services (including benefit tests and requirements to prove the arm's length character of internal transactions), loss carry-forwards, multi-jurisdictional double taxation, acquisitions, dispositions, reorganizations, and internal restructurings. The tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which AIXTRON operates may audit the Company's tax returns and may disagree with the positions taken in those returns. An adverse outcome resulting from any settlement or future examination of AIXTRON's tax returns may subject the Company to additional tax liabilities and may adversely affect its effective tax rate which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, any examination by the tax authorities could cause AIXTRON to incur significant legal expenses and divert the Company's management's attention from the operation of its business. 13 Table of Contents AIXTRON is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. AIXTRON has in the past and may in the future undertake acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions, or other significant investments, involve many risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; • lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; • revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; • the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; • claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; • the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of AIXTRON's cash; • diversion of AIXTRON's management's attention from daily operations of the business; and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies. AIXTRON may not be successful in addressing the risks that its past or future acquisitions may present and the Company may fail to realize the perceived benefits of such acquisitions. AIXTRON may increase production in anticipation of customer orders that may not materialize, which would negatively affect the Company's operating results. AIXTRON schedules production of its systems based upon order backlog and customer commitments. Based on the complexity of the systems that AIXTRON produces, the Company must expend considerable efforts in hiring, training and retaining qualified manufacturing personnel. AIXTRON has in the past experienced delays in customer delivery schedules, as well as outright cancellations of orders. For instance, in December 2015, AIXTRON's customer San'an Optoelectronics significantly reduced the volume of its order of AIX R6 Metal-Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition ("MOCVD") systems. For additional information, see "