ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets and ongoing economic and financial uncertainties may cause a decline in consumer spending that may adversely affect the Company's business, operations, liquidity, financial results and stock price. Our operating results are affected by the relative condition of the U.S. economy. All of our stores are currently located within the United States, making our operating results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. While the national economy is experiencing some level of recovery from the recent downturn, we cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. If the economic recovery continues to be slow, or if the economy experiences a prolonged period of decelerating or negative growth, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. As a business that depends on consumer discretionary spending, the Company may be adversely affected if our customers reduce, delay or forego their purchases of our products as a result of continued job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, higher consumer debt and interest rates, higher energy and fuel costs, reduced access to credit, falling home prices, lower consumer confidence, uncertainty or changes in tax policies and tax rates and uncertainty due to national or international security concerns. Decreases in same store sales, customer traffic or average value per transaction negatively affect the Company's financial performance, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. Promotional activities and decreased demand for consumer products, particularly higher-end products, could affect profitability and margins. In addition, adverse economic conditions may result in an increase in our operating expenses due to, among other things, higher costs of labor, energy, equipment and facilities. Due to recent fluctuations in the U.S. economy, our sales, operating and financial results for a particular period are difficult to predict, making it difficult to forecast results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The market for sporting goods retailers is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies, some of which have greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than us. We compete, directly or indirectly, with retailers from multiple categories, including stores and chains utilizing large format, traditional and specialty formats, mass merchants, and catalog, Internet-based and direct-sell retailers. We compete principally based on customer service, store location and appearance, and assortment, quality and availability of merchandise. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion. Increased competition in our current markets or the adoption or proliferation by competitors of innovative store formats, aggressive pricing strategies and retail sale methods, such as the Internet, could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as the popularity and use of Internet sites continue to increase, our business faces increased competition from various domestic and international sources, including our suppliers. We may require significant capital in the future to sustain or grow our business, including our store and eCommerce operations, and there is no assurance that cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet those needs or that additional sources of capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to predict or effectively react to changes in consumer demand or shopping patterns, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demand, preferences and shopping patterns regarding sporting goods. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to continual change and evolution. We often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors several months in advance of the proposed delivery. If we misjudge the market for our new merchandise our sales may decline significantly. We may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns or miss opportunities for other products, both of which could have a negative impact on our profitability. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could also impact our net sales. A major shift in consumer demand away from sporting goods generally could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online for our products. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with consumer preferences and expectations. There are various risks relating to omni-channel retailing, including the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of systems failure or inadequacy and increased competition. Further, governmental regulation of Internet-based commerce continues to evolve in areas such as taxation, privacy, data protection, copyrights, patents, mobile communications and the provision of online payment services. Unfavorable changes to regulations in these areas could harm our business. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase our number of retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. A lack of available financing on terms acceptable to real estate developers or a tightening credit market may adversely affect the number or quality of retail sites available to us. We cannot assure you that stores or sites will be available to us, or that they will be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm the Company's business and standing with our customers. The protection of our customer, associate and Company data is critical to us. The Company relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personally identifiable information. Despite the security measures the Company has in place, its facilities and systems, and those of its third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors, could damage our reputation, expose us to risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Our private brand offerings expose us to various risks. In addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings through a combination of brands that we own and the ones that we license from third parties. We have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private brand offerings. Although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers at each price point and provide us with higher gross margins than comparable products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to certain specific risks in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this section, such as: potential mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights (e.g., defending against counterfeit, knock offs, grey-market, infringing or otherwise unauthorized goods); our ability to successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with obligations under license agreements that we have with the licensors of brands, including in some instances certain sales minimums that if not met could cause us to lose the licensing rights or pay damages; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. An increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationship with our vendors. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a single third-party provider to maintain and operate certain aspects of our www.DicksSportingGoods.com operations, and disruptions with the provider or in the services it provides to us could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. We have contracted with a single third party to operate and host our DicksSportingGoods.com eCommerce website and provide related fulfillment and customer service. We rely on that party's operational, privacy and security procedures and controls to operate and host our Dick's eCommerce business. Failure by such third party to adequately service these aspects of our DicksSportingGoods.com eCommerce business could result in a prolonged disruption that affects our customers' ability to utilize our website or receive product in a timely manner. As a result, we may lose customer sales and / or experience increased costs, which could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. Our ability to operate and expand our business and to respond to changing business and economic conditions will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility impose certain restrictions that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital. The operation of our business, the rate of our expansion and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and, if necessary, the availability of equity or debt capital. We cannot assure you that our cash flow will be sufficient to meet these needs or that we would be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our current senior secured revolving credit facility contains provisions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales, which might otherwise be used to finance our operations. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, and if availability under our current senior secured revolving credit facility is not sufficient, we may have to obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. Our liquidity or access to capital could also be adversely affected by unforeseen changes in the financial markets and global economy. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to costs and risks associated with increased or changing laws and regulations affecting our business, including those relating to the sale of consumer products. We operate in a complex regulatory and legal environment that exposes us to compliance and litigation risks and that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political, economic or social events. Some of the federal, state or local laws and regulations that affect us include: •those relating to consumer products, product liability or consumer protection, including regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state regulatory agencies; •those relating to the sale of firearms and ammunition; •those relating to the manner in which we advertise, market or sell our products; •labor and employment laws, including wage and hour laws; •those that prohibit, limit or impose additional actions or requirements to the sale in certain areas of certain products we offer, such as firearms, ammunition or knives; •tax laws or interpretations thereof; •data protection and privacy laws and regulations; •environmental laws; •customs or import laws and regulations; and •securities and exchange laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations such as those outlined above may result in our being subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our suppliers, distributors and manufacturers to provide us with sufficient quantities of products in a timely fashion. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,200 vendors. In fiscal 2012, purchases from Nike represented approximately 17% of our merchandise purchases. Although in fiscal 2012 purchases from no other vendor represented 10% or more of our total purchases, our dependence on our principal suppliers involves risk. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain the merchandise or obtain an adequate quantity that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchasing allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profit margins. Further, to the extent our suppliers continue to be affected by ongoing economic uncertainty and other concerns relating to global economic conditions, it may have an adverse impact with respect to their respective inventory and production levels, customer incentives and vendor allowances, product quality, or ability to continue operations, all of which could ultimately have an adverse impact on our supply chain. We may be subject to various types of litigation, including those relating to our sale of firearms and other claims, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. From time to time the Company or its subsidiaries may be involved in lawsuits or other claims arising in the course of business, including those related to federal or state wage and hour laws, product liability, consumer protection, advertising, employment, intellectual property, tort and other matters. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or distribution of our private brand products. In addition, although we do not sell hand guns, assault weapons or automatic firearms, we do sell hunting rifles, semi-automatic hunting rifles and ammunition, which are products that are associated 17 Table of Contents with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits with respect to our performance of background checks on hunting rifle purchasers as mandated by state and federal law, or the improper use of hunting rifles and ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from hunting rifle manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of hunting rifles and ammunition. In addition, any improper or illegal use by our customers of ammunition or hunting rifles sold by us could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. We may incur losses relating to claims filed against us, including costs associated with defending against them, and there is risk that any such claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage, or affect our ability to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. Although we have entered into product liability indemnity agreements with many of our vendors and manufacturers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payments sufficient to offset product liability losses or, in the case of our private brand products, where almost all of the manufacturing occurs outside the United States, that we will be able to collect anything at all. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and other claims, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such matters. If our product costs are adversely affected by foreign trade issues, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increasing prices for raw materials, political instability or other reasons, our sales and profitability may suffer. We believe that a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, most of our private brand merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to risk relating to changes in import duties, quotas, loss of "most favored nation" status with the U.S., shipment delays and shipping port constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions, freight cost increases and economic uncertainties. In addition, the U.S. periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained by our vendors and us. If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which our vendors' supplies or our private brand products manufacturers are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers from whom we directly or indirectly purchase products utilize labor and other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S., we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. Also, the prices charged by foreign manufacturers may be affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the U.S. dollar. We source goods from various countries, including China, and thus changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may affect the costs of goods that we purchase. Our product costs are also affected in part by the prices for raw materials used in said products. A substantial rise in the price of one or more raw materials used in our products could dramatically increase the costs associated with the manufacturing of merchandise that we purchase from our vendors for sale in our stores, as well as products manufactured for our private brands, which could cause the cost of our products to increase and could potentially have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Historically, political or economic instability in the countries from which our products originate has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. The loss of our key executives, especially Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business due to the loss of their experience and industry relationships. Our success depends on the continued services of our senior management, particularly Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Stack also holds a majority of the voting power of our capital stock, and has been operating the Company since 1984. Mr. Stack possesses detailed and in-depth knowledge of the issues, opportunities and challenges facing the Company and its businesses. 18 Table of Contents If we were to lose any key senior executive, especially Mr. Stack, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or any claimed infringement by us of third party intellectual rights could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are manufactured or may be made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming to address, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or result in our loss of ownership or use of the intellectual property. As a result, any such claim or our failure to protect our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Problems with our information system software could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. Our Dick's and Golf Galaxy stores utilize a suite of applications from JDA for our core merchandising, allocation and replenishment systems. These systems, if not functioning properly, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell, process shipments of goods, process financial information or credit card transactions, deliver products or engage in similar normal business activities. Any material disruption, malfunction or other similar problems in or with these systems could negatively impact our financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. We may be unable to attract, train, engage and retain qualified leaders and associates. The training and development of our future leaders and key personnel is important to our long-term success. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer. In addition, stores depend significantly on our ability to hire and retain quality associates, including store managers and sales associates. We plan to expand our associate base to manage our anticipated growth. The market for non-entry level personnel, particularly for associates with retail expertise, is highly competitive. Additionally, our ability to maintain consistency in the quality of customer service in our stores is critical to our success. We are also dependent on the associates who staff our distribution centers, many of whom are skilled. We may be unable to meet our leadership needs or our labor needs. If we are unable to train and develop future leaders and key personnel, or hire and retain store-level and distribution center associates capable of providing a high level of customer service, our business could be materially adversely affected. We rely on four distribution centers, and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at one or more of these facilities, we may lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver it to our stores. We currently operate a 725,000 square foot distribution center in Plainfield, Indiana, a 657,000 square foot distribution center near Atlanta, Georgia, a 601,000 square foot distribution center in Smithton, Pennsylvania and a 624,000 square foot distribution center in Goodyear, Arizona. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to one of these facilities due to fire, tornado or any other cause could damage a material portion of our inventory or impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and process returns of products to vendors, and could negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, as we grow, we may require additional distribution capacity, which could come in the form of expanding existing facilities or opening alternative or additional facilities. Any future expansions or other openings, could affect us in ways we cannot predict. 19 Table of Contents Poor performance of professional sports teams within our core regions of operation, as well as professional team lockouts or strikes, retirement of sports superstars or scandals involving sports superstars could adversely affect our financial results. We sell a significant amount of professional sports team merchandise, the sale of which may be subject to fluctuations based on the success or failure of such teams. The poor performance by the professional sports teams within our core regions of operations, as well as professional team lockouts and strikes, could cause our financial results to fluctuate accordingly year over year. In addition, to the extent we use sports superstars to market our products and advertise our stores, the retirement of such individuals or scandals they may be implicated in could negatively impact our financial results. The relative seasonality of our operations, along with the current geographic concentrations of our Dick's Stores, exposes us to certain risks. A majority of our Dick's stores are located in the eastern half of the United States, which exposes us to various regional risks, including those relating to weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in geographic areas that experience seasonably cold weather, and we sell a significant amount of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Our highest sales and operating income results historically occur during our fourth fiscal quarter, which is due, in part, to the holiday selling season and, in part, to our strong sales of cold weather sporting goods and apparel. Abnormally warm weather conditions could reduce our sales of these items and cause a decrease in our profitability. The fourth quarter generated approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal 2012. Poor performance during our fourth quarter, whether because of a slow holiday selling season, unseasonable weather conditions, economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results for the entire fiscal year. Additionally, abnormally wet or cold weather in the spring or summer months could reduce our sales of golf, team sports or other merchandise and cause a decrease in our profitability. We may pursue strategic acquisitions or investments and the failure of an acquisition or investment to produce the anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate the acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire or invest in complementary companies or businesses. The success of such acquisitions or investments is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, operations, growth potential, integration and other factors relating to the respective business. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions or investments will produce the results that we expect at the time we enter into or we complete the transaction. For example, we may not be able to capitalize on previously anticipated synergies. Furthermore, acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill or other intangibles, any of which could harm our financial condition. We also may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, supply chain and other operations, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions may also result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We are controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and his relatives, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. We have two classes of common stock: our common stock has one vote per share and our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share. As of February 2, 2013, Mr. Edward W. Stack, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his relatives controlled a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and Class B common stock and would control the outcome of a vote on any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Mr. Stack and his relatives may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and they may take actions with which our other stockholders disagree. 20 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: authorizing the issuance of Class B common stock; classifying the board of directors such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors; limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; if our Class B common stock is no longer outstanding, prohibiting stockholder action by partial written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders or by unanimous written consent; and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who owns at least 15% of our common stock. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Although our board of directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and the continuing determination from our Board of Directors that the declaration of dividends is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend. Furthermore, although we have authorized a five-year $1 billion share repurchase program, we are not obligated to make any purchases under the program and we may discontinue it at any time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 