ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Registrants. Transmission Constraints Transmission constraints could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Cleco Power relies on two main suppliers of electric transmission when accessing external power markets. At times, even after completion of the Acadiana Load Pocket project, physical constraints limit the amount of purchased power these transmission providers can deliver into Cleco Power’s service territory, which in turn can affect capacity or power purchases under long-term contracts, as well as spot market power purchases. If the amount of purchased power actually delivered into Cleco’s transmission system were less than the amount of power contracted for delivery, Cleco Power may rely on its own generation facilities to meet customer demand. Cleco Power’s incremental generation cost at that time could be higher than the cost to purchase power from the wholesale power market, thereby increasing its customers’ ultimate cost. In addition, the LPSC may not allow Cleco Power to recover part or all of its incremental generation cost, which could be substantial. Fuel Cost Audits The LPSC conducts fuel audits that could result in Cleco Power making substantial refunds of previously recorded revenue. Generally, fuel and purchased power expenses are recovered through the LPSC-established fuel adjustment clause, which enables Cleco Power to pass on to its customers substantially all such charges. Recovery of fuel adjustment clause costs is subject to a periodic fuel audit by the LPSC. The LPSC Fuel Adjustment Clause General Order issued November 6, 1997, in Docket No. U-21497 provides that an audit will be performed not less than every other year. Cleco Power currently has fuel adjustment clause filings for 2003 through 2010 subject to audit. In March 2009, the LPSC informed Cleco Power of its intent to proceed with a periodic fuel audit for the years 2003 through 2008. The total amount of fuel expenses included in the audit is approximately $3.2 billion. Cleco Power has received data requests from the LPSC Staff in connection with the audit. Management is currently unable to predict the outcome of the audit. Cleco Power could be required to make a substantial refund of previously recorded revenue as a result of this or any other fuel audit, and such refund could result in a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The most recent fuel audit completed by the LPSC covered 2001 and 2002 and resulted in a refund of $16.0 million to Cleco Power’s retail customers in the first quarter of 2005. Hedging and Risk Management Activities Cleco Power is subject to market risk associated with fuel cost hedges relating to open natural gas contracts. Cleco has risk management policies which cannot eliminate all risk involved in its energy commodity activities. Cleco Power enters into fuel cost hedge positions to mitigate the volatility in fuel costs passed through to its retail customers. When these positions close, actual gains or losses are deferred and included in the fuel adjustment clause in the month the physical contract settles. However, recovery of any of these fuel adjustment clause costs is subject to, and may be disallowed as part of, a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit conducted by the LPSC. Cleco Power manages its exposure to energy commodity activities by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not be as effective as planned, particularly if intentional misconduct is involved, and cannot eliminate all risk associated with these activities. Financial derivatives reforms could increase the liquidity needs and costs of Cleco Power’s commercial trading operations. In July 2010, federal legislation was enacted to reform financial markets that significantly alter how over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are regulated. The law increased regulatory oversight of OTC energy derivatives, including (1) requiring standardized OTC derivatives to be traded on registered exchanges regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), (2) imposing new and potentially higher capital and margin requirements and (3) authorizing the establishment of overall volume and position limits. The law gives the CFTC authority to exempt end users of energy commodities which could reduce, but not eliminate, the applicability of these measures to Cleco Power and other end users. These requirements could cause Cleco Power’s future OTC transactions to be more costly and have an adverse effect on its liquidity due to additional capital requirements. In addition, by standardizing OTC products, these reforms could limit the effectiveness of Cleco Power’s hedging programs because Cleco Power would have less ability to tailor OTC derivatives to match the precise risk it is seeking to protect. Commodity Prices Cleco Power is subject to the fluctuation in the market prices of various commodities which may increase the cost of producing power. Cleco Power purchases natural gas, petroleum coke, lignite, coal, and fuel oil under long-term contracts and on the spot market. Historically, the markets for fuel oil, natural gas, petroleum coke, and coal have been volatile and are likely to 20 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K remain volatile in the future. Cleco Power’s retail rates include a fuel adjustment clause that enables it to adjust rates for monthly fluctuations in the cost of fuel and purchased power. However, recovery of any of these fuel adjustment clause costs is subject to, and may be disallowed as part of, a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit conducted by the LPSC. Global Economic Environment and Uncertainty The global economic environment and uncertainty may negatively impact Cleco’s business and financial condition. The global economic environment and uncertainty may have an impact on Cleco’s business and financial condition. Cleco’s ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when Cleco would like, or need, to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on its ability to fund capital expenditures or debt service, or on Cleco’s flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. If Cleco Corporation’s or Cleco Power’s credit ratings were to be downgraded by Moody’s or by Standard & Poor’s, Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power, as the case may be, would be required to pay additional fees and higher interest rates under its bank credit agreements. Cleco’s pension plan portfolio has experienced significant volatility due to market conditions and may experience material losses in the future. The losses, in conjunction with plan funding requirements, could result in required pension plan contributions significantly higher and earlier than previously anticipated, which could have a material adverse impact on Cleco’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Further, the current economic environment and uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on Cleco’s lenders or its customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to Cleco or to delay payment of such obligations. Additionally, the current economic environment and uncertainty could lead to reduced electricity usage, which could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Future Electricity Sales Cleco Power’s future electricity sales and corresponding base revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by general economic conditions. General economic conditions can negatively impact the businesses of Cleco Power’s industrial and commercial customers, resulting in decreased power purchases and lower base revenue. The recent recession had an adverse effect on MWH sales due to closures and a reduction in load requirements across Cleco Power’s industrial customer base, particularly among manufacturers of wood and paper products. The paper industry remains vulnerable to decreasing demand for its products, and the downturn in residential home construction has also caused a significant reduction in the demand and prices for lumber and other wood products. Reduced production or the shut down of any of these customers’ facilities could substantially reduce Cleco Power’s base revenue. Future electricity sales could be impacted by industrial customers switching to alternative sources of energy, including on-site power generation, and retail customers consuming less electricity due to increased conservation efforts or increased electric usage efficiency. Cleco Power Generation Facilities Cleco Power’s generation facilities are susceptible to unplanned outages, significant maintenance requirements, and interruption of fuel deliveries. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel supply interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Some of Cleco Power’s facilities were originally constructed many years ago. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant expenditures to operate at peak efficiency or availability, or in compliance with its environmental permits. If Cleco Power fails to make adequate expenditures for equipment maintenance, Cleco Power risks incurring more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated operating and maintenance expenditures, increased fuel or power purchase costs, and potentially the loss of revenue related to competitive opportunities. Newer equipment, such as that installed at Madison Unit 3, can be subject to startup issues, such as failures due to immaturity of control equipment safeguards and experience with operating under forced outage conditions. Equipment manufacturer warranty coverage will be subject to proof of Cleco Power’s proper operation of the equipment. Cleco Power’s generating facilities are fueled primarily by coal, natural gas, petroleum coke, and lignite. The deliverability of these fuel sources may be constrained due to such factors as higher demand, production shortages, weather-related disturbances or lack of transportation capacity. If the suppliers are unable to deliver the contracted volume of fuel, Cleco Power would have to replace any deficiency with alternative sources, which may not be as favorable and could increase the ultimate cost of fuel to customers. Fuel and purchased power expenses are recovered from customers through the fuel adjustment clause, which is subject to refund until either a prudency review or a periodic fuel audit is conducted by the LPSC. Competition for access to other natural resources, particularly oil and natural gas, could negatively impact Cleco Power’s ability to access its lignite reserves. Land owners may grant other parties access for oil and natural gas drilling in the same area to which Cleco has been granted access for lignite reserves. Placement of drilling rigs and pipelines for developing oil and gas reserves can preclude access to lignite in the same areas, making right of first access critical with respect to extracting lignite. Competition for the right of first access may need to be determined through legal processes. Additionally, Cleco Power could be liable for the impacts of other companies’ activities on lands that have been mined and reclaimed by Cleco Power. Loss of access to lignite 21 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K reserves or the liability for impacts on reclaimed lands could have material adverse effects to the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Reliability Standards Compliance Cleco is subject to mandatory reliability standards. Fines and civil penalties are imposed on those who fail to comply with these standards. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorized the creation of an ERO with authority to establish and enforce mandatory reliability standards, subject to FERC approval, for users of the nation’s transmission system. In July 2006, FERC named NERC as the ERO. In June 2007, FERC began enforcing compliance with numerous reliability standards developed by NERC. New standards are being developed and existing standards are continuously being modified. As these standards continue to be adopted and modified, they may impose additional compliance requirements on Cleco Power and Midstream operations, which may result in an increase in capital expenditures and operating expenses. Failure to comply with the reliability standards approved by FERC can result in the imposition of material fines and civil penalties. In February 2010, the SPP RE notified Cleco that an audit would be conducted to determine Cleco’s compliance with the NERC Reliability Standard Requirements. The audit began in April 2010. Cleco has submitted mitigation plans and evidence of remedial efforts in connection with the SPP’s initial findings from the April 2010 audit. Discussions with the SPP are continuing. Management is currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the audit and whether the results will have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Environmental Compliance Cleco’s costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations are significant. The costs of compliance with new environmental laws and regulations, as well as the incurrence of incremental environmental liabilities, could be significant to the Registrants. Cleco is subject to extensive environmental oversight by federal, state, and local authorities and is required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations related to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Cleco also is required to obtain and comply with numerous governmental permits in operating its facilities. Existing environmental laws, regulations, and permits could be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to Cleco. For example, the EPA has announced rules that regulate CO2 and hazardous air pollutants from electric generating units. Cleco may incur significant capital expenditures or additional operating costs to comply with these revisions, reinterpretations, and new requirements. If Cleco fails to comply with these revisions, reinterpretations, and requirements, it could be subject to civil or criminal liabilities and fines or may be forced to shut down or reduce production from its facilities. Cleco cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals. Environmental advocacy groups, states, other organizations, some government agencies, and the presidential administration are focusing considerable attention on emissions from power generation facilities, including CO2 emissions, and their potential role in climate change. Future changes in environmental regulations governing power plant emissions could make some of Cleco’s electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate. In addition, any legal obligation that would require Cleco to substantially reduce its emissions beyond present levels could require extensive mitigation efforts and could raise uncertainty about the future viability of some fossil fuels as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Cleco cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals. Cleco Power may request recovery from its customers of its costs to comply with new environmental laws and regulations. If revenue relief were to be approved by the LPSC, then Cleco Power’s rates could increase. If the LPSC were to deny Cleco Power’s request to recover all or part of its environmental compliance costs, there could be a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Regulatory Compliance Cleco operates in a highly regulated environment, and adverse regulatory decisions or changes in applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ businesses or result in significant additional costs. Cleco’s business is subject to extensive federal, state, and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The LPSC regulates Cleco’s retail operations, and FERC regulates Cleco’s wholesale operations. The construction, planning, and siting of Cleco’s power plants and transmission lines also are subject to the jurisdiction of the LPSC and FERC. Additional regulatory authorities have jurisdiction over some of Cleco’s operations and construction projects including the EPA, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the LDEQ, the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, the Louisiana Department of Public Safety, regional water quality boards, and various local regulatory districts. Cleco must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should Cleco be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on Cleco, Cleco’s business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be 22 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to Cleco or Cleco’s facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on the Registrants’ business or result in significant additional costs because of Cleco’s need to comply with those requirements. Weather Sensitivity The operating results of Cleco Power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity, particularly kWh sales to residential customers. In Cleco Power’s service territory, demand for power typically peaks during the hot summer months. As a result, Cleco Power’s financial results may fluctuate on a seasonal basis. In addition, Cleco Power has sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions were milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenue. Retail Electric Service Cleco Power’s retail electric rates and business practices are regulated by the LPSC, and reviews may result in refunds to customers. Cleco Power’s retail rates for residential, commercial, and industrial customers and other retail sales are regulated by the LPSC, which conducts an annual review of Cleco Power’s earnings and regulatory return on equity. Through 2009, Cleco Power filed annual monitoring reports with the LPSC for 12-month periods ended September 30. In 2010, the reports were filed for 12-month periods ended June 30 and September 30. Beginning in 2011, Cleco Power will file annual monitoring reports for the 12-month period ended June 30. Cleco Power could be required to make a substantial refund of previously recorded revenue as a result of the LPSC review, and such refund could result in a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Wholesale Electric Service Cleco Power’s wholesale electric rates and business practices are regulated by FERC, and Cleco could lose the right to sell at market-based rates. Cleco Power’s wholesale rates are regulated by FERC, which conducts a review of Cleco Power’s generation market power every three years, in addition to each time generation capacity changes. If FERC determines Cleco Power possesses generation market power in excess of certain thresholds, Cleco Power could lose the right to sell wholesale generation at market-based rates within its control area, which could result in a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Cleco Credit Ratings A downgrade in Cleco Corporation’s or Cleco Power’s credit rating could result in an increase in their respective borrowing costs and a reduced pool of potential investors and funding sources. While the senior unsecured debt ratings of Cleco Corporation and Cleco Power are currently investment grade, in recent years such ratings have been downgraded or put on negative watch by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power cannot assure that its current debt ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that one or more of its debt ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. If Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s were to downgrade Cleco Corporation’s or Cleco Power’s long-term ratings, particularly below investment grade, the value of their debt securities would likely be adversely affected, and the borrowing cost of Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power, as the case may be, would likely increase. In addition, Cleco Corporation or Cleco Power, as the case may be, would likely be required to pay higher interest rates in future debt financings and be subject to more onerous debt covenants, and its pool of potential investors and funding sources could decrease. Holding Company Cleco Corporation is a holding company, and its ability to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on the cash generated by its subsidiaries. Cleco Corporation is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of Cleco’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Cleco Corporation’s ability to meet its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon the cash generated by these subsidiaries. Cleco Corporation’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on Cleco Corporation’s debt or to make any funds available for such payment. In addition, Cleco Corporation’s subsidiaries’ ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to Cleco Corporation may be restricted by their obligations to holders of their outstanding securities and to other general business creditors. Cleco Corporation’s right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of its creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if Cleco Corporation were a creditor of any subsidiary, its rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by Cleco Corporation. Moreover, Cleco Power, Cleco Corporation’s principal subsidiary, is subject to regulation by the LPSC, 23 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K which may impose limits on the amount of dividends that Cleco Power may pay Cleco Corporation. Midstream Generation Facilities Midstream’s generation facilities are susceptible to unplanned outages, significant maintenance requirements, interruption of fuel deliveries, and transmission constraints. The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. If adequate expenditures for equipment maintenance are not made, a facility may incur more frequent unplanned outages, higher than anticipated operating and maintenance expenditures, increased fuel costs, and potentially the loss of revenue related to competitive opportunities. Midstream’s generation facilities are fueled by natural gas. The deliverability of this fuel source may be constrained due to such factors as higher demand, production shortages, weather-related disturbances, or lack of transportation capacity. Due to Midstream’s generation facilities’ location on the transmission grid, Midstream relies on two main suppliers of electric transmission when accessing external power markets. However, at times, physical constraints limit the amount of power these transmission providers can deliver. Cleco Power’s Rates The LPSC and FERC regulate the rates that Cleco Power can charge its customers. Cleco Power’s ongoing financial viability depends on its ability to recover its costs from its LPSC-jurisdicational customers in a timely manner through its LPSC-approved rates and its ability to pass through to its FERC customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. Cleco Power’s financial viability also depends on its ability to recover in rates an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. If Cleco Power is unable to recover any material amount of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Cleco Power’s revenues and earnings are substantially affected by regulatory proceedings known as rate cases. During those cases, the LPSC determines Cleco Power’s rate base, depreciation rates, operation and maintenance costs, and administrative and general costs that Cleco Power may recover from its retail customers through its rates. These proceedings may examine, among other things, the prudence of Cleco Power’s operation and maintenance practices, level of subject expenditures, allowed rates of return, and previously incurred capital expenditures. The LPSC has the authority to disallow costs found not to have been prudently incurred. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups, and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or reducing rates. Rate cases generally have long timelines, which may be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty. Alternate Generation Technology Changes in technology may negatively impact the value of the Cleco Power and Midstream generation facilities. A basic premise of Cleco’s business is that generating electricity at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a relatively low price. There are alternate technologies to produce electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and photovoltaic (solar) cells. Research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in alternate technologies. It is possible that advances will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electricity production to a level that is equal to or below that of most central station production. Also, as new technologies are developed and become available, the quantity and pattern of electricity usage by customers could decline, with a corresponding decline in revenues derived by generators. In addition, the current presidential administration and certain members of the U.S. Congress have voiced support for such alternative energy sources. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 specifically provides $58.0 billion to be available for energy-related initiatives, primarily $20.0 billion in renewable energy tax credits to encourage development of wind, solar, and other renewable energy sources, and $32.0 billion for development of a “smart grid” in the U.S. It is uncertain at this time to what extent these initiatives may impact Cleco’s businesses, except that little impact is expected in the short term. As a result of these factors, the value of the Cleco Power and Midstream generation facilities could be significantly reduced. Insurance Cleco’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Cleco currently has general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of its facilities in amounts that it considers appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of Cleco’s facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on Cleco’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Like other utilities that serve coastal regions, Cleco does not have insurance covering its transmission and distribution system, other than substations, because it believes such insurance to be cost prohibitive. In the future, Cleco may not be able to recover the costs incurred in restoring transmission and distribution properties following hurricanes or other natural disasters through issuance of storm recovery bonds or a 24 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K change in Cleco Power’s regulated rates or otherwise, or any such recovery may not be timely granted. Therefore, Cleco may not be able to restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution properties without negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Litigation The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ financial condition. The Registrants are party to various litigation matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that the Registrants may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Taxes Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants’ financial condition. The Registrants make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. Changes in federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results, or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by the Registrants could negatively affect their results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Health Care Reform Cleco may experience increased costs arising from health care reform. In March 2010, Congress passed, and the President signed, the PPACA. This law may have a significant impact on health care providers, insurers, and others associated with the health care industry. Cleco is continuing to evaluate the impact of this comprehensive law on its business and has made the required changes to its health plan for 2011. Federal and state governments may propose other health care initiatives and revisions to the health care and health insurance systems. It is uncertain what legislative programs, if any, will be adopted in the future, or what action Congress or state legislatures may take regarding other health care reform proposals or legislation. Although the law has passed, many regulations have yet to be written; therefore, management cannot yet quantify the impact of these regulations, including those relating to the establishment of exchanges and the applicability of excise taxes on excess health benefits. The new regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Technology and Terrorism Threats Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may negatively impact the Registrants’ operating results. Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt the Registrants’ operations and harm the Registrants’ operating results. The Registrants operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite the implementation of security measures, all of the Registrants’ technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. If the Registrants’ technology systems were to fail and the Registrants were unable to recover in a timely way, the Registrants would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, the Cleco Power and Midstream generation plants, fuel storage facilities, transmission, and distribution facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt the Registrants’ ability to produce or distribute some portion of their energy products. Any such disruption could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure the Registrants’ assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the U.S. and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm the Registrants’ business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Cleco Power Unsecured and Unsubordinated Obligations Cleco Power’s unsecured and unsubordinated obligations, including, without limitation, its senior notes, will be effectively subordinated to any secured debt of Cleco Power and the debt and any preferred equity of any of Cleco Power’s subsidiaries. Cleco Power’s senior notes and its obligations under various loan agreements and refunding agreements with the Rapides Finance Authority, the Louisiana Public Facilities Authority and other issuers of tax-exempt bonds for the benefit of Cleco Power are unsecured and rank equally with all of Cleco Power’s existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, Cleco Power had an aggregate of $1.2 billion of unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Cleco Power will be effectively subordinated to, and 25 CLECO CORPORATION CLECO POWER 2010 FORM 10-K thus have a junior position to, any secured debt that Cleco Power may have outstanding from time to time (including any mortgage bonds) with respect to the assets securing such debt. As of December 31, 2010, Cleco Power had no secured indebtedness outstanding. Cleco Power may issue mortgage bonds in the future under its Indenture of Mortgage, and holders of mortgage bonds would have a prior claim on certain Cleco Power material assets upon dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization. Additionally, Cleco Power’s ability (and the ability of Cleco Power’s creditors, including holders of its senior notes) to participate in the assets of Cleco Power’s subsidiary, Cleco Katrina/Rita, is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. As of December 31, 2010, Cleco Katrina/Rita had $155.6 million of indebtedness outstanding. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 