Item 1A. Risk Factors. Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. In addition to other information contained in this report, readers should carefully consider the following cautionary statements. Risks Related To Our Business We are in default under our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility, entitling the lender to accelerate repayment of the indebtedness prior to its scheduled maturity and to otherwise exercise its remedies. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm issued by our auditors relating to our financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph regarding uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. Under the terms of our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility, any audit report containing such a “going concern” qualification constitutes a default; accordingly, we are in default as of the date this report is filed with the SEC. When a default occurs, no further borrowings can be made under our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility until the default is remedied. We have not yet obtained any forbearance agreement that would limit our lender’s rights and/or remedies with respect to our default. Accordingly, our lender will impose a default rate of interest and can at any time accelerate repayment of the indebtedness prior to its scheduled maturity and otherwise exercise its rights and remedies under the terms of our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility including, without limitation, the right to foreclose on the collateral securing our indebtedness. Our indebtedness under this facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and of our subsidiaries and by a pledge of our subsidiaries’ stock, and is further supported by guarantees from our subsidiaries. We have $42.0 million of senior secured debt that matures on December 15, 2010 and we are in default under our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility, and we have a working capital deficiency, a stockholders’ deficit, and a history of significant operating losses, including a significant net operating loss for 2009. We expect that our operating losses will continue. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will continue as a going concern or operate profitably in the future. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.2 million and negative working capital of approximately $54.8 million and a stockholders’ deficit of $12.3 million. We have a history of substantial net losses. In 2009 and 2008, we generated losses from continuing operations of $17.7 million and $25.5 million, respectively. We are in default under our $5 million short-term revolving credit facility. These factors are continuing to affect our operations and we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we have limited financial resources with which to achieve our objectives and obtain profitability and positive cash flows. Achievement of both our short-term and long-term objectives will depend on our ability to obtain additional financing, to generate revenue from our current and planned business operations, and control costs. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our auditors have included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements. As a result, our financial statements do not reflect any adjustment which would result from our failure to continue to operate as a going concern. Any such adjustment, if necessary, would materially affect the value of our assets. We need to raise additional equity or refinance our $42.0 million of senior secured debt and our $5.0 million short-term revolving credit facility. We may also need to seek additional short-term bridge financing. Because we have had a history of operating losses, expect to have a net loss for 2010 and National Coal of Alabama, Inc. defaulted on its 12% Notes due 2012 in 2009, it may be difficult for us to refinance our existing credit facilities or raise additional equity at terms acceptable to us, or if at all. Additionally, we were notified on January 5, 2010 by The Nasdaq Stock Market that we were not in compliance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) because shares of our common stock had closed at a per share bid price of less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, further complicating our ability to raise equity financing. 19 Table of Contents Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage. We may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future. Although the terms of our existing credit facilities may limit our ability to incur additional debt, such terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances. The incurrence of additional debt could adversely impact our ability to service payments on senior debt. We may not be able to generate the amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal amounts on our debt. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash flows from operations to service our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain financing, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries under unfavorable circumstances to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. Our existing credit facilities limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of the proceeds from any such sale. Therefore, even if forced to do so, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our debt obligations. We may be unable to comply with restrictions imposed by our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. The agreements governing our outstanding senior debt impose a number of restrictions on us. For example, the terms of our credit facilities contain financial and other covenants that create limitations on our ability to effect acquisitions or dispositions, incur additional debt and may require us to maintain various financial ratios and comply with various other financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to comply with these restrictions. A failure to comply with these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to borrow under our credit facilities or result in an event of default under these agreements. In the event of a default, our lenders could terminate their commitments to us and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay these amounts, or we might be forced to seek an amendment to our financing arrangements which could make the terms of these arrangements more onerous for us. In the second, third and fourth quarters of 2008, National Coal of Alabama, Inc failed to meet certain financial covenants required under its 12% Notes due 2012. In each instance, waivers of covenant failures and modifications of future financial covenants were obtained. With respect to the second and fourth quarter waivers only, we were charged penalties of $300,000 each quarter for covenant waiver and modification. During the second quarter of 2009, National Coal of Alabama, Inc. was obligated to pay to its debt holders approximately $1.9 million of accrued interest on its 12% Notes due 2012. The date for making the interest payment was extended by the holders of the 12% Notes due 2012 to July 17, 2009, and on July 21, 2009, National Coal of Alabama, Inc. defaulted on its 12% Notes due 2012 as the interest payment had not been made. As a result, on August 3, 2009, the debt holders foreclosed on the capital stock of Nation Coal of Alabama, Inc. which it held as collateral. 20 Table of Contents Continuing unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Economic conditions in the United States and throughout much of the world continue to remain depressed. The continued distress in the financial market has resulted in extreme volatility and declines in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity and our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not continue to be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Continuing turmoil in the financial markets could make it more difficult for us to access capital, sell assets, refinance our existing indebtedness, attain waivers for covenant violations from our lenders if necessary, attain future bonding capacity required to expand our operations, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We estimate that as of December 31, 2009, we control approximately 39.1 million tons of proven and probable reserves that are recoverable at this time. We base our reserve estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff and independent mining engineering firm. Our estimates of our proven and probable reserves and our recoverable reserves, as well as the Btu or sulfur content of our reserves are revised and updated periodically to reflect the resolution of uncertainties and assumptions, the production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results such as: • geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from experience in current operations; • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies; and • assumptions concerning coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise tax, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. As a result, the reserve estimates set forth in this report may differ materially from our actual reserves. Inaccuracies in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, or decreased profitability. 21 Table of Contents Our future success depends upon our ability to continue acquiring and developing coal reserves that are economically recoverable and to raise the capital necessary to fund our expansion. Our recoverable reserves will decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of the coal deposits under our mineral rights. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our coal deposits as efficiently as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities and acquiring properties containing economically recoverable coal deposits. In addition, we must also generate enough capital, either through our operations or through outside financing, to mine these additional reserves. Our long-term strategy includes increasing our coal reserves through acquisitions of other mineral rights, leases, or producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. Our ability to further expand our operations may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital, either through cash flows generated from operations, or financing activities, or both. Mining coal in Central and Southern Appalachia can present special difficulties. Characteristics of the land and the permitting process may adversely affect our mining operations, our costs and the ability of our customers to use the coal that we mine. The geological characteristics of our coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our mining operations and costs, and our customers’ ability to use the coal we mine. Our ability to implement our planned development and exploration projects is dependent on many factors, including the ability to receive various government permits. Our planned development and exploration projects and acquisition activities may not result in the acquisition of significant additional coal deposits and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. For example, we may not be successful in acquiring contiguous properties that will leverage our existing facilities. In addition, in order to develop our coal deposits, we must receive various governmental permits. Before a mining permit is issued on a particular parcel, interested parties are eligible to file petitions to declare the land unsuitable for mining. For example, on November 10, 2005, two environmental groups filed a petition to halt the expansion of surface mining activities on the New River Tract and surrounding areas. Although this petition was dismissed, management’s time and the Company’s resources were consumed in the process. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the permits necessary for us to expand our operations. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could adversely affect our ability to mine these properties. We conduct, or plan to conduct, a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title could delay the exploration and development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property and could increase our costs. In addition, if we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining. Some leases have minimum production requirements or require us to commence mining in a specified term to retain the lease. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. 22 Table of Contents Due to variability in coal prices, the length of our coal supply agreements, as well as certain provisions in our coal supply agreements, we may be unable to sell coal at a profit. We typically sell our coal for a specified per ton amount and at a negotiated price pursuant to both short-term contracts and contracts of twelve months or greater. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 98% of our coal sales were under contracts of twelve months or greater. Price adjustment, “price reopener” and other similar provisions in long-term supply agreements may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price would result in decreased revenues and lower our gross margins. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, termination of the contracts. Consequently, due to the risks mentioned above with respect to long-term supply agreements, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from these sales commitments. In addition, we may not be able to successfully convert these sales commitments into long-term supply agreements. We are subject to market risk with respect to a substantial portion of our coal production commencing in 2011. We have not yet priced a substantial portion of the coal we have the capability of producing over the next several years in order to take advantage of possible future market demand or to realize possible long term opportunities with certain users of the high quality coal reserves we control. At December 31, 2009, our un-priced and uncommitted future production was approximately 0.1 million tons in 2010, 0.3 million tons in 2011, 0.7 million tons in 2012, or approximately 12%, 28% and 56%, respectively, of our planned production for such periods. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 98% of the coal we produced was sold under contracts of twelve months or greater. Unless and until we enter into long-term contracts for our coal at fixed prices, the price at which we will sell our future production remains unknown. If coal prices drop or do not improve sufficiently prior to 2011, we may be forced to sell our coal at depressed prices, which would have a material adverse affect on our operations and profitability. The coal industry is highly cyclical, which subjects us to fluctuations in prices for our coal. We are exposed to swings in the demand for coal, which has an impact on the prices for our coal. The demand for coal products and, thus, the financial condition and results of operations of companies in the coal industry, including us, are generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the world economy and the domestic and international demand for energy. Any material decrease in demand for coal could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In recent years, volatility in coal prices has become the norm rather than the exception. We depend heavily on one customer, the loss of which would adversely affect our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Georgia Power Company represented approximately 95% of our continuing operation’s coal revenues. At December 31, 2009, we had coal supply agreements with this customer that expire at various times throughout 2011 and 2012. When these agreements expire, we may not be successful at renegotiating them and this customer may not continue to purchase coal from us 23 Table of Contents pursuant to long-term coal supply agreements. If this customer were to significantly reduce its purchases of coal from us or if we were unable to sell coal to it on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Additionally, any disruption in Georgia Power Company’s business would result in a disruption in our business. There is no assurance that we will find purchasers of our product at profitable prices. If we are unable to achieve supply contracts, or are unable to find buyers willing to purchase our coal at profitable prices, our revenues and operating profits could suffer. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. The prices we can charge for coal are influenced by factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign coal; • the demand for electricity; • the cost of transportation; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; • regulatory, administrative and court decisions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. Any adverse change in the supply to demand ratio would cause spot prices to decline and require us to increase productivity and lower costs in order to maintain our margins. If we are not able to maintain our margins, our operating results could be adversely affected. Therefore, price declines may adversely affect operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and invest in operations. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired due to credit issues. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers or trading counterparties occurs, our business could be adversely affected. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. Similarly, a meaningful increase in coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any overcapacity could reduce coal prices in the future. 24 Table of Contents If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of delivered coal and, as a result, play a critical role in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our coal less competitive as a source of energy or could make some of our operations less competitive than other sources of coal. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to their customers. While U.S. coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. In January 2010, Georgia Power Company exercised its rights of force majeure under our coal supply contract due to freezing weather in the Southeast United States, which resulted in their suspension of our shipment of approximately 40,000 tons of coal. While Georgia Power Company is obligated under our contract to purchase this coal within twelve months after the end of the event, the suspension of these shipments resulted in an immediate reduction in cash receipts of approximately $3.0 million during January and February 2010. The coal industry is intensely competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenue and margins, and delay or prevent our ability to service our debt. We operate in a highly competitive industry with regional, national and international energy resources companies. We compete based primarily on price, and we believe that the principal factors that determine the price for which our coal can be sold are: • competition from energy sources other than coal; • coal quality; • efficiency in extracting and transporting coal; and • proximity to customers. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins, and delay or prevent our ability to make payments on our debt. Significant competition from entities with greater resources could result in our failure. We operate in a highly competitive industry with national and international energy resources companies. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ use of their substantially greater resources could overwhelm our efforts to operate successfully and could cause our failure. There is no assurance that our limited revenues will be sufficient to operate profitably, or that we will generate greater revenues in the future. We were formed to create a regional coal producer with desires to expand as opportunities arose. We had no revenues from inception until the third quarter 2003 when we began mining operations. We are not profitable and have a limited operating history. We must be regarded as a risky venture with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, risks and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. Our coal sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 were approximately $85.6 million. There is no assurance that we can continue to achieve sales at that level or generate profitable sales. We expect that 25 Table of Contents many other coal producers could produce coal at lower costs per ton than our production cost per ton. If those companies price their coal based on their lower cost, it could adversely affect our revenues and profits, if any. There is no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. There is no assurance that we will generate continued revenues or any profits, or that the market price of our common stock will be increased thereby. Our inability to diversify our operations may subject us to economic fluctuations within our industry. Our limited financial resources reduce the likelihood that we will be able to diversify our operations. Our probable inability to diversify our activities into other coal mining areas will subject us to economic fluctuations within our market area and therefore increase the risks associated with our operations. The loss of key management personnel could adversely affect our business. We are heavily dependent upon the skills, talents, and abilities of our executive officers and board of directors to implement our business plan. Given the intense competition for qualified management personnel in our industry, the loss of the services of any key management personnel may significantly and detrimentally affect our business and prospects. We may not be able to retain some or all of our key management personnel, and even if replaceable, it may be time consuming and costly to recruit qualified replacement personnel. We face risks inherent to mining which could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather and natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, key equipment failures, variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit, variations in rock and other natural materials, and other variations in geologic conditions. Any of these factors could increase the cost of operating our business, which would lower or eliminate our margins. Increases in the price of steel, diesel fuel or rubber tires could negatively affect our operating costs. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel and rubber tires. The costs of roof bolts we use in our underground mining operations depend on the price of scrap metal. We also use significant amounts of diesel fuel and tires for the trucks and other heavy machinery we use, particularly at our active surface mining operations. If the prices of steel, diesel fuel and other commodity based products increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could pose a risk to achieving optimal labor productivity and competitive costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires experienced, skilled laborers with proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In order to support our ongoing labor needs and possible expansion opportunities, we have sponsored both in-house and vocational coal mining programs at the local level in order to train additional skilled laborers. In the event the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens or we are unable to train the necessary amount of skilled laborers, there could be an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to maintain or expand production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 26 Table of Contents Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill customer orders or increase our operating costs. We may be unable to purchase sufficient quantities of coal from third parties to meet our contractual commitments or the price of such coal may be greater than we had expected. We may sometime use independent contractors to mine coal at certain of our mining operations. Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines, changes in demand for contract miners from other coal producers, and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing, and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced for us by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill our customer orders or require us to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy those orders. If we are unable to fill a customer order or if we are required to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy a customer order, we could lose existing customers and our operating costs could increase. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulation The characteristics of coal may make it difficult for coal users to comply with various environmental standards. These standards are continually under review by international, federal and state agencies, related to coal combustion. As a result, coal users may switch to other alternative energy sources, which would affect the volume of our coal sales. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Stricter environmental regulations of emissions from coal-fired electric generating plants could increase the costs of using coal thereby reducing demand for coal as a fuel source, the volume of our coal sales and price. Stricter regulations could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. Proposed reductions in emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter or greenhouse gases may require the installation of costly emission control technology or the implementation of other measures, including trading of emission allowances and switching to other fuels. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants, coal users may need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase), blend high sulfur coal with low-sulfur coal or switch to other fuels. Reductions in mercury emissions required by certain states will likely require some power plants to install new equipment, at substantial cost, or discourage the use of certain coals containing higher levels of mercury. Recent and new proposals calling for reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases could significantly increase the cost of operating existing coal-fueled power plants and could inhibit construction of new coal-fueled power plants. Existing or proposed legislation focusing on emissions enacted by the United States or individual states could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for our customers and could impose a tax or fee on the producer of the coal. If our customers decrease the volume of coal they purchase from us or switch to alternative fuels as a result of existing or future environmental regulations aimed at reducing emissions, our operations and financial results could be adversely impacted. The government regulates mining operations, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Proposals to regulate greenhouse gas emissions could impact the market for our coal, increase our costs and reduce the value of our coal reserves. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, 27 Table of Contents plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, The United States and more than 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention established a binding set of emission targets for developed nations, which became binding on all countries that had ratified the Kyoto Protocol in February 2005, as a result of Russia’s ratification in November 2004. Although the specific emission targets vary from country to country, the United States would be required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five-year budget period from 2008 through 2012. Although the United States did not ratify the emission targets and no comprehensive regulations focusing on greenhouse gas emissions are in place, these restrictions, whether through ratification of the emission targets or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely affect the price and demand for coal. According to the Energy Information Administration’s Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States during 2004, coal accounted for 34% of the total. Efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions could result in reduced use of coal if electricity generators switch to lower carbon sources of fuel. In July 2008, the EPA published an Advanced Notice of Proposal Rulemaking (“ANPR”) seeking comments and discussions of the complex issues associated with the possible regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. The deadline for comments on the ANPR was November 28, 2009. The EPA sought comments and discussion on (i) advantages and disadvantages of regulating greenhouse gases under one provision of the Clean Air Act; (ii) how a decision to regulate greenhouse gases under one provision of the Clean Air Act would lead to regulation under other provisions; (iii) issues relevant to legislation to regulate greenhouse gases and the potential overlap of the Clean Air Act and such future legislation; and (iv) scientific information relevant to, and the issues raised by, an analysis as to whether greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. In December 2009, the EPA made a determination that greenhouse gases cause or contribute to air pollution and may reasonably by anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, which findings are prerequisites to the EPA regulating greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. Regulation of greenhouse gases in the United States may happen as a result of the recent change in administration at the Federal level. Much discussion has taken place, along with proposed legislative initiatives, at both the State and Federal levels that would regulate greenhouse emissions. President Obama has pledged to implement an economy wide cap and trade program to reduce greenhouse gases 80 percent by 2050. The President also pledged the United States to be a world leader on greenhouse gas reduction and re-engage with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to develop a 28 Table of Contents greenhouse gas program. Any significant change in regulation may require additional controls on coal-fueled power plants and industrial boilers which could lead to switching to lower carbon fuels. Ultimately, such regulations could lead to a reduction in the demand for coal. There is currently a bill that has been introduced in the Tennessee Legislature that could have an adverse effect on our ability to mine coal profitably in Tennessee. The bill prohibits the commissioner from issuing or renewing a water quality permit for surface coal mining operations to alter or disturb any ridge line above two thousand (2,000) feet elevation above sea level. A number of our seams of coal in the state of Tennessee are above two thousand (2,000) feet in elevation. Accordingly, if the bill were to pass the Legislature, our ability to economically recover coal from those seams may be negatively impacted. Apart from governmental regulation, on February 4, 2008, three large investment banks announced that they had adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. These guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of utility power plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal fired plants. If comprehensive laws focusing on greenhouse gas emission reductions were to be enacted by the United States or individual states where we sell coal, it may adversely affect the use of and demand for fossil fuels, particularly coal, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain required bonds. Federal and state laws require surety bonds or cash deposits to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $4.9 million of cash invested in money market funds and certificates of deposit, against which irrevocable bank letters of credit or surety bonds are written in favor of the Office of Surface Mining of the US Department of Interior or the Kentucky Department of Natural Resources. Reclamation bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis if they are not posted with cash. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party bond issuers under the terms of our existing credit facilities; and • the exercise by third-party bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the bonds. Terrorist threats and environmental zealotry may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Our business also may be affected by environmental activists who engage in activities intended to disrupt our business operations. In particular, environmental activists have conducted protests outside the homes of certain of our former executives, including our former Chief Executive Officer. We spent approximately $317,000, $300,000 and $400,000 during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, on security measures. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets 29 Table of Contents such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to obtain and renew permits necessary for our mining operations could negatively affect our business. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that regulate environmental and health and safety matters in connection with coal mining, including permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. We believe that we have obtained the necessary permits to mine our developed reserves at our mining complexes. However, as we commence mining our undeveloped reserves, we will need to apply for and obtain the required permits. The permitting rules are complex and change frequently, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or even impossible. In addition, private individuals and the public at large have certain rights to comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need for our mining operations may not be issued, or, if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion. The permits may also involve requirements that may be changed or interpreted in a manner which restricts our ability to conduct our mining operations or to do so profitably. An inability to conduct our mining operations pursuant to applicable permits would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. If the assumptions underlying our estimates of reclamation and mine closure obligations are inaccurate, our costs could be greater than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining, as well as most aspects of underground mining. We base our estimates of reclamation and mine closure liabilities on permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. Our management and engineers periodically review these estimates. The estimates can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (ASC 410), which, requires us to record these obligations as liabilities at fair value. In estimating fair value, we consider the estimated current costs of reclamation and mine closure and applied inflation rates and a third-party profit, as required by ASC 410. The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf. If actual costs differ from our estimates, our profitability could be negatively affected. Our operations may have a negative impact on the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. 30 Table of Contents We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at our Tennessee mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as “acid mine drainage,” which we refer to as AMD. The treating of AMD can be costly. Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We may not be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and if we fail to do so, the price and liquidity of our common stock may decline. The Nasdaq Stock Market has quantitative maintenance criteria for the continued listing of common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. The requirement currently affecting us is maintaining a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00. On January 5, 2010, the Nasdaq Stock Market issued a letter to us stating that we were not in compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement and, therefore, faced delisting proceedings. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule, the closing bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(A), we have 180 calendar days, or until July 6, 2010 to regain compliance. If we do not regain compliance by July 6, 2010, the Nasdaq staff will notify us that our common stock will be delisted. In that event and at that time, we may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, if we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by July 6, 2010, we can apply to list our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the initial listing criteria for that market, other than the minimum bid price requirement. If our application is approved, we will be granted an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. We will seek to regain compliance within this 180 day cure period and will consider alternatives to address compliance with the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market. If we fail to maintain continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and must move to a market with less liquidity, our financial condition could be harmed and our stock price would likely further decline. If we are delisted, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of, and the liquidity of the trading market for, our common stock. 31 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. Historically, we have not paid dividends on shares of our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of the indenture related to our existing credit facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends on shares of our common stock. We operate in an industry that is subject to significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter that may result in unexpected reductions in revenue and stock price volatility. Factors that may influence our quarterly operating results include, but may not be limited to: • the worldwide demand for coal; • the price of coal; • the supply of coal and other competitive factors; • the costs to mine and transport coal; • the ability to obtain new mining permits; • the costs of reclamation of previously mined properties; and • industry competition. Due to these factors, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results may be below our shareholders’ expectations and those of public market analysts. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Our stock price may decrease, which could adversely affect our business and cause our shareholders to suffer significant losses. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease, perhaps substantially: • the failure of our quarterly operating results to meet expectations of investors or securities analysts; • adverse developments in the financial markets, the coal and energy industries and the worldwide or regional economies; • interest rates; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of common stock by existing security holders; • announcements of key developments by our competitors; and • the reaction of markets and securities analysts to announcements and developments involving our Company. If we need to sell or issue additional shares of common stock or assume additional debt to repay our existing debt or finance future growth, our shareholders’ ownership could be diluted or our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complementary businesses or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers. In order to do so, or to fund our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our shareholders’ stock percentage ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company which could negatively impact our results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Our director and officer indemnification policies in conjunction with the provisions of Florida law could result in substantial un-recoupable expenditures and reduced remedies against directors and officers. Florida Revised Statutes provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. We will also bear the expenses of such litigation for any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person’s promise to repay us such amounts, if it is ultimately determined that such person was not entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we will be unable to recoup. Florida Revised Statutes exclude personal liability of our directors to us and our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty except in certain specified circumstances. Accordingly, we will have a much more limited right of action against our directors than otherwise would be the case. This provision does not affect the liability of any director under federal or applicable state securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 