Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us because they have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows could be adversely affected. The market structure in which we operate may continue to change or lose its viability, making it difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. Our trading businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past twelve months in particular, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. 19 The market structure in which we operate is changing and these changes could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. These changes may make it difficult for us to maintain and/or predict levels of profitability or may cause us to generate losses. The most notable recent events that could have a direct impact on our business are the NYSE’s new market model, which commenced in late December 2008, the change to the NYSE’s HYBRID market model, the NYSE’s mergers with Archipelago and Euronext in 2006 and 2007, the recent merger of NYSE Regulation and the NASD, forming FINRA, SEC emergency rulemaking with respect to Regulation SHO and the SEC’s structural changes in the U.S. equity trading markets. As a result of the NYSE’s change in market structure to the new market model in December 2008 and previously the HYBRID model in 2006, almost all of the NYSE’s trading volume is now executed electronically, thus eliminating the need for the DMM to manually execute orders in most cases. The DMM, instead, attempts to maintain a fair and orderly market by interacting with orders electronically through algorithms, adding liquidity to the NYSE’s marketplace to meet its obligations. The increased automation causes us to be more focused on adding liquidity to the marketplace electronically rather than manually executing orders that can be electronically matched. With speed being the most important factor under the new market model and HYBRID system, the ability of the DMM to participate in trades could be, and in fact has been, limited in many instances. In addition, the speed of other trading systems, such as BATS and BIDS, have pulled trading order flow away from the NYSE in NYSE-listed securities under Regulation NMS, providing us fewer opportunities to interact with trades, which has adversely affected our profitability and could further limit profitability in the future. The lifting of order limitations has caused a significant decline in the number of large orders that used to be the mainstay of the auction market where major brokerage houses utilized on-floor brokers to obtain best executions of large block orders and where the specialist’s infusion of capital produced best execution prices on significant trades. In the HYBRID model, the trading participants’ order delivery systems break up significant size orders into multiple executions for small incremental price changes and large brokerage houses at times internalize large orders by buying and selling securities between customer and proprietary accounts without these orders ever reaching a public market. The NYSE’s market share of securities listed on the NYSE, in fact, has declined under the HYBRID market model. Internalization and the HYBRID, therefore, has at least temporarily reduced our opportunity to participate in the capital markets in a way that has and could prevent us from having any predictable yardstick of profitability. The purported goal of the NYSE’s new market model, which changes the specialists to DMMs was to provide the market with further speed in eliminating the first look that specialists had previously received to disseminate quotes and to enable the designated market makers to quote and trade at the national best bid and offer to bring order flow back to the NYSE. We are still in the early stages of the new market model and we are just beginning to implement and refine our electronic trading systems to work in this new market model. However, our market participation rates in the first two months of the new market model are lower, and principal trading revenues have declined and, we have not yet been fully able to determine whether the new market model, or the HYBRID market model will permanently significantly hinder our ability to participate in transactions as principal. In the event we cannot further develop or enhance our proprietary electronic trading systems to interact with orders and continue to act as principal in a substantial percentage of trades, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Further, as previously discussed, the internalization of orders, in which large brokerage firms are able to cross trades among their large client bases without directing any business to the major exchanges and marketplaces, could restrict order flow and, consequently, our ability to participate in trades. The effects of this trend have already been felt in the significant decrease in order flow being directed to the NYSE, and we have not yet been able to anticipate the effects it may have on our profitability going forward. 20 The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The continued growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies, such as the NYSE’s HYBRID system and our options, ETFs and futures market-making algorithms, is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. This acceleration could further increase program trading, increase the speed of transactions and decrease our ability to participate in transactions as principal, which would reduce our profitability. Some of these alternative trading systems compete with our Market-Making businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and thus the earnings of our institutional brokerage business. The NYSE’s adoption of the new market model and the HYBRID market may increase pressure on our cash equities DMM business as customers execute more of their NYSE-related trades electronically and off the NYSE. To date, we have implemented only a few specialist algorithms to trade on the HYBRID model, and these algorithms are in the process of undergoing change in redevelopment to participate in the new market model that was introduced by the NYSE in December 2008. We have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the increased program trading, increased percentage of NYSE stocks trading off of the NYSE Market and the change in the commissions program on the NYSE. Our technology designed to trade on the NYSE can only be as good as the systems with which it interacts. This means that there are times when system failures at both the NYSE and the AMEX have had an impact on our profitability. In the future, as the AMEX-listed securities are being listed on the NYSE Alternext Exchange and NYSE Arca Exchange (following the NYSE’s acquisition of the AMEX in October 2008), we may experience systems failures on those exchanges as well. The NYSE, AMEX and several other exchanges support a small fund to reimburse market makers for losses caused by the systems. We cannot provide assurance that any of these exchanges will be able to reimburse us for all losses incurred as a result of their systems failures on a timely basis, or at all, or even if these exchanges will be able to understand or agree that those losses were in fact caused by their systems failures, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the exchanges’ systems failures could result in erroneous regulatory investigations that could be generated by false exception reports by the market surveillance groups of those exchanges. An inability to timely or successfully develop enhanced proprietary trading systems to interact on the NYSE’s market model, as well as the increase in electronic trading on other exchanges for our Market-Making business, may adversely affect our business and profitability. As the securities trading marketplace has become almost completely automated, we have developed electronic trading capabilities which allow us to interact with electronic order flow, particularly in the NYSE’s new market model and HYBRID market and to engage in market-making transactions in options, ETFs and other derivative product in other markets, such as the AMEX, the NYSE Alternext Exchange, the NYSE Arca Exchange, the CBOE, the PHLX and other options and derivative product exchanges, which have introduced their own version of a fully automated or HYBRID market in order to comply with Regulation NMS. All of these hybrid, or electronic-based, markets have required us to expend significant programming efforts and resources to transact business in the electronic marketplace. Throughout this process, we have internally developed trading systems to interact on these markets and these systems. We have experienced some declines in revenues at times under these conditions, and may experience further declines in trading or revenues as the new markets models and electronic trading platforms emerge, and it is still early in the new electronic trading environment to fully determine the successes or failures of these trading technologies and their effect on our profitability. 21 Our initial HYBRID and related trading algorithms were developed with a view toward complying with our specialist and market-making obligations to ensure we perform our roles correctly and in compliance with rules and regulations. We have also developed and are continuing to develop more advanced trading technologies to trade opportunistically while continuing to comply with our market-making obligations under the NYSE’s new market model and in our other market-making activities in options, futures and ETFs. There can be no assurance that our internally-developed market-making algorithms do not have errors or can always monitor or prevent rule violations. In addition, we cannot assure you that our trading algorithms cannot have flaws or that our quality assurance procedures will always catch those flaws, which could result in algorithmic trading programs that generate losses in a short or prolonged timeframe. In the event all violations or losses cannot be prevented, these trading programs may expose us to regulatory fines and penalties by exchange regulatory authorities or expose us to significant trading losses. We cannot provide assurance that our more advanced trading systems, even if they perform as designed, will be profitable due either to the changing nature of the marketplace or changes in exchange and/or securities rules or laws. We also cannot provide assurance that these proprietary trading systems will enable us to compete effectively with our direct competitors, who may have better or more advance technology than we do. Our profitability and ability to compete may depend on the ability of our business and technology personnel to effectively adapt these advanced trading systems to changes in the marketplace, while adequately maintaining our specialist and market-making obligations. In the event we cannot successfully build and adapt this trading technology, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on the ability to upgrade information and communications systems, and any failure to do so could harm our business and profitability. The development of complex communications systems and new technologies, including Internet-based technologies, may render our existing information and communications systems outdated. In addition, our information and communications systems must be compatible with those of the NYSE, the NYSE Arca Exchange, the NYSE Alternext Exchange and the other exchanges on which we conduct business. As a result, when those exchanges, including the NYSE, the NYSE Arca Exchange and the NYSE Alternext Exchange, upgrade their systems, we will need to make corresponding upgrades. For example, throughout 2007 and 2008, the NYSE made numerous changes to its trading technologies, both major and minor, in its discretion. Some of these changes require us to adapt our trading technology, a process that can at times be time consuming and costly and that often carries risks associated with high frequency trading algorithms, such as coding errors, system malfunctions, quality assurance testing errors and technology glitches. These same types of errors can arise in our general trading algorithm technology development lifecycle, as well. Our future success will depend on our ability, on a cost-effective basis, to timely and competitively respond to changing technologies. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The NYSE’s and the NYSE Arca Exchange’s and the NYSE Alternext Exchange’s (and formerly, the AMEX’s) ability to develop information and communications systems and complex computer and other technology systems has been instrumental in their development over the past several years. We are dependent on the continuing development of technological advances by the NYSE, the NYSE Arca Exchange and the NYSE Alternext Exchange, as well as the other exchanges on which we trade, which is a process over which we have no control. If any of these exchanges, for any reason, is unable to continue its history of computer-related and other technological developments and advances, those failures could have an adverse effect on its success, including an ability to grow, to manage its trading volumes and to attract new listings. For example, in the new Regulation NMS environment, the NYSE had lost significant market share in trading of NYSE-listed securities to ECNs and large trading operations that internalize certain trading. Our cash equities specialist/DMM operations have, at times, been hindered by the order flow shipped to other markets because we are not able to participate in those trades. Although indications are that the NYSE’s new market model may again attract order flow to the NYSE, these gains may be short-lived or disappear as the other exchanges and ATSs and dark liquidity pools may develop technology to further pull order flow away from the NYSE and continue to fragmentize the size or each transaction. Any such developments can be expected to adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. 22 As markets become more automated and we are increasingly dependent on high frequency trading algorithms, failures in these algorithms and their development processes could adversely affect our trading and profitability. As both national and international financial markets have become and continue to become more automated, we are increasingly dependent on our electronic trading systems to effectively compete. This is especially true in our Market-Making business segment due to the high frequency nature of trades and due to our obligations and desire to interact with high-paced order flow. We have internally developed trading algorithms to interact with the faster, more electronic order flow and employ significant personnel dedicated to the trading algorithm development process. Our development process entails communications among management at each of our broker-dealers, traders, compliance personnel and the coders to ensure that the development of our trading programs are adequately designed to achieve the goals of our business, as well as to comply with securities rules and regulations. If there are any failures in this communication process our trading technologies could not be efficient or profitable, or may expose us to liability for rule violations. In addition, once the goals of the trading technology are communicated, we have a development process to code and implement our trading algorithms. This process includes the following: • change initiation for development, bugs and enhancements; • ongoing reviews of the software development lifecycle; • quality assurance checks, including testing procedures; and • production migration procedures. It is possible that some employees in our technology development process may not adequately follow our procedures or, even if all procedures are followed, it is possible that coding errors pass through our procedures with undetected errors. This risk is enhanced by the fact that the NYSE and certain other exchanges do not provide us with a test environment to run our algorithms other than “live” production. If our procedures are not followed by our employees or if undetected errors are implemented live, our high frequency algorithms could potentially cause errors that, if not immediately detected, could result in significant trading losses and/or regulatory investigations. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations or profitability. Regulatory fees and taxes may materially increase under new laws and regulations, which could harm our profitability. In connection with our trading businesses, we are subject to fees and expenses by virtue of the securities transactions in which we engage. These fees and other expenses, including taxes, may increase significantly at any time. In 2009, several different regulatory bodies and Congress have either proposed or passed increases in taxes or other transactional fees on securities transactions. For example, on February 13, 2009, a bill was introduced (HR 1068) in the House of Representatives that would impose a tax on certain securities transactions to the extent required to recoup the net cost to the government in its Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). This proposed bill could impose a tax of 0.25% on the dollar value of buy and sell transactions executed by an entity on a trading facility. Such tax per transaction, even if significantly reduced, would materially affect our profitability, as it would significantly increase the cost of doing business. For example, based on our calculations as we understand the proposed bill, the imposition of such a tax would make it impossible for us to continue our Market-Making segment operations. In addition, effective April 1, 2009, our exchange transaction fee rate applicable to all securities transactions effected on exchanges or over-the-counter markets is expected to be increased to $25.70 per million dollars from $5.60 per million dollars. This fee increase will significantly increase our trading expenses, which will decrease our margins and could adversely affect our profitability going forward. 23 Our compliance and other regulatory costs could significantly increase under the new and changing market structures. With the recent implementation of significant new and amended SEC and exchange rules, such as Regulation NMS, interim final temporary Rule 204T under Regulation SHO, the NYSE’s new market model and HYBRID model, and the creation of FINRA, there are voluminous new rules that have either been passed or are in the process of being implemented. While it is still too early to anticipate the ultimate impact that Regulation NMS, temporary Rule 204T, the creation of FINRA and the other market rules and changes could have on our trading, the new rules have materially affected our compliance costs and could alter the competitive environment in which our Market-Making segment functions. As discussed above, the restrictions of regulation and the impact of Regulation NMS have caused a marked decline in the order flow of trades in NYSE-listed securities to the NYSE, which has impacted LaBranche & Co. LLC’s profitability. Further rule changes, or even differing views of the application of new or amended market-making rules or their interpretation could adversely affect our compliance costs or result in increase investigations or inquiries into our trading practices or compliance procedures. Some of these new rules have required us to hire mandated “independent auditors” to review our compliance and technology development procedures to determine whether they are adequate or designed to comply with rules. These requirements also can, and have, increased our compliance costs or regulatory fines. We are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws that could result in investigations, fines or other penalties. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to increasing regulatory inquiries and informal investigations in the ordinary course of business and, as a result, are spending more resources on responding to and defending these inquiries and investigations. It is possible that these additional resources could result in increased legal and professional fees, as well as additional fines and formal regulatory actions going forward. It is difficult to predict whether and to what extent any of these regulatory inquiries could escalate. However, if any of these ordinary inquiries progress into material regulatory or legal proceedings, such proceedings could result in settlements, determinations or judgments requiring substantial payments of sanctions, fines and penalties, as well as the costs of defending these actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. On December 22, 2006, LaBranche & Co. LLC entered into an agreement with the NYSE to settle investigations by the NYSE concerning our specialists’ alleged inability to comply with applicable securities laws and regulations relating to specialists’ order-handling obligations and NYSE rules concerning “firm-quote” obligations, commitments from other markets, limit order display rules and short sales. Pursuant to the agreement, and without admitting or denying any wrongdoing, we paid a total of $600,000 on February 27, 2007 to settle this matter. In addition, we may, in the future, become the subject of other investigations or settlement negotiations that could result in our paying fines and restitution. It is possible that unresolved regulatory investigations, including those that arise in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and results of operations. We have had substantial personnel turnover, including key trader turnover, and may have additional turnover, each of which could adversely affect our profitability. Since 2006, we have undergone significant headcount reductions, both through reductions in work force due to the proliferation of electronic trading and through attrition due to the changing market environment. From time to time, we also have had significantly talented traders leave our Company for other opportunities. For example, on January 28, 2009, we announced that Harsh Padia, the head of our Market-Making segment’s options trading unit and chief investment officer of LSP, was leaving our company to pursue other opportunities. Mr. Padia helped build our options market-making business through a period of significant growth and our LSP operations have continued to represent an increasing large portion of our reported revenues during his tenure. It is possible 24 that the loss of Mr. Padia’s services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues for the near (and possibly far) term, either because we cannot find suitable replacements for Mr. Padia’s expertise or because we do not receive the order flow that once was directed to our firms. We have hired replacements for Mr. Padia who are expected to start working for LSP early in April 2009. We are unable at this time to predict whether or to what extent these new co-heads of our options trading unit will affect our profitability, if at all, or how long it will take them to implement our options business to prior levels. Our future success depends on the continued service of key employees, particularly George M.L. LaBranche, IV, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified management, trading, compliance and technical personnel is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us and our business prospects. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses have been and may continue to be affected by changes in the levels of market volatility. Our market-making businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making businesses or could cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing capital charges or risk-based haircuts. Limiting the size of our market-making positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our profitability. In periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are declining significantly (as has been the case recently), it may not be possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts. In such circumstances we may be forced to either take on additional risk or to incur losses. In addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements which increases our funding costs. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold. Our securities transactions are conducted as principal, and at times, as agent, with broker-dealer or bank counterparties located in the United States. While the NYSE and other exchanges and the clearing houses monitor the credit standing of the counterparties with which we conduct business, we cannot be certain that any of these counterparties will not default on their obligations. If any do, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are 25 entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect or prevent all employee misconduct or rule violations. We are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition, the SEC, the NYSE, the FINRA, the NYSE Alternext Exchange, the NYSE Arca Exchange, other SROs and state securities commissions require strict compliance with their respective rules and regulations. Employee misconduct that may be difficult to detect could result in losses. Misconduct by employees could include, among other things, binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present excessive risks, violation of securities laws or exchange rules that have not been detected by the technological systems installed by the exchanges and us to prevent such violations or hiding from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in any case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputation or financial harm. If there are any additional investigations or actions against us, such investigations or actions could result in settlements, determinations or judgments requiring substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such investigations or actions, the imposition of substantial sanctions, fines or penalties and the suspension or revocation of our registration with the SEC as a broker-dealer or our suspension or expulsion as a member firm of the NYSE, and the other exchanges on which we operate, in which case we would be unable to operate our business. It also may be difficult for us to comply with other new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities and SROs, including the NYSE, pursuant to Regulation NMS, the new market model and the HYBRID system. The risks of failure to comply with foreign laws and rules will increase as our LSPE and LSPH subsidiaries operate as foreign broker-dealers. Failure to comply with any of these rules or regulations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Other changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC, these governmental authorities and SROs also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We also are subject to the risks of securities laws liability and related civil litigation. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of legal liability. Our market-making businesses are exposed to substantial risks of liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the NYSE, the NYSE Alternext Exchange, CBOE, the PHLX, the NYSE Arca Exchange, the London Stock Exchange, the FSA and other exchanges and regulatory authorities. The NYSE and SEC investigation of specialist trading activity that was settled in April 2004 has also resulted in the initiation of purported class action and derivative action proceedings against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and other proceedings in other courts, all of which are described under “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” While we deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the actions initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of their resolution. The range of possible resolutions could include determinations and judgments against us or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such investigations and suits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 We also are subject to the risk of civil litigation, employment claims and other actions in the ordinary course of our business operations. For example, in August 2006, we settled a suit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of a former employee who claimed discrimination on the basis of disability. It is possible that we could incur significant legal expenses in defending ourselves against such lawsuits or claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We may incur losses as a result of our large balance sheet and risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. Our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our ordinary trading activities, incur losses. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated or previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. Many of our risk management tools are made up of software programs outsourced from third parties. In the past, market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, with the exception of the second half of 2008, and they may do so in the future. Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. An increase in volatility would increase our measured or hedged risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce or adapt certain of our business activities. In addition, we have a substantial balance sheet relating to our growing options, futures and ETF specialists and market-making operations. In the event the assumptions or quantifications we have taken to seed or hedge these positions are incorrect, or in the event the market volumes, prices or volatility are not as anticipated, our financial condition could be harmed. In such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may have insufficient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional financing when we need it. Our business depends on the availability of adequate capital. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient capital in the future or that additional financing will be available on a timely basis, or on terms favorable to us. Historically, we have satisfied these needs with internally generated funds, the issuance of subordinated debt by our operating subsidiaries and our issuance of common stock and senior and subordinated notes. While we currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, regulatory capital and capital expenditure requirements through at least the next twelve months, we may need to raise additional funds to: • increase the capital available to us for our inventory positions; • expand or diversify our operations; • acquire complementary businesses; or • respond to unanticipated capital requirements. 27 We may be required to obtain this additional financing on short notice as a result of rapid, unanticipated developments, such as a steep market decline. Our revenues may decrease due to changes affecting the economy or changes affecting the securities markets, such as decreased volume, volatility or liquidity. Our trading businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past twelve months in particular, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. Adverse changes affecting the economy and/or the securities markets could result in a further decline in market volatility or liquidity, thus negatively impacting revenues at our Market-Making segment and our Institutional Brokerage segment. Many elements of our cost structure do not decline if we experience reductions in our revenues and we may be unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, or at all, and we could suffer losses. Increased program trading and lower levels of volatility, with the exception of the second half of 2008, on the NYSE have negatively affected our results of operations and may adversely affect our operations in the future. Adverse changes in the economy and the securities markets could return, resulting in: • losses from declines in the market value of securities held in our accounts; • a decline in trading volume on the NYSE and other exchanges; • fragmentation of orders into smaller sizes and execution of such orders over multiple exchanges under Regulation NMS; • further declines in volatility in securities markets; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; and • further increases in claims and litigation. Whether market and economic conditions will improve or trading trends change and whether we will be able to adequately protect our interests and maintain revenues in the future is uncertain. Risks associated with our trading transactions could result in trading losses. A majority of our Market-Making segment’s revenues are derived from our trading for our own account as principal. We may incur trading losses relating to these activities, since each trade primarily involves the purchase, sale or short sale of securities for our own account. In any period, we may incur trading losses in a significant number of our market-making stocks, options, futures, ETFs, foreign currencies and other derivatives for a variety of reasons, including price declines, lower trading volumes and the required performance of our obligations. From time to time, we have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. In general, because our inventory of securities is marked-to-market on a daily basis, any downward price movement in these securities results in an immediate reduction of our revenues and operating results. Our market-maker trading in options, ETFs, futures, other derivative instruments and foreign currencies also exposes us to certain additional risks associated with such factors as price fluctuations, foreign exchange currency movements, changes in the liquidity of markets, volatility and counterparty credit. Although we have adopted and carry out risk management procedures, we cannot be sure that these procedures have been formulated properly to identify or completely limit our risks and, even if formulated properly, we cannot be sure that we will successfully implement these procedures. As a result, we may not be able to manage our risks successfully or avoid trading losses. 28 Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a large number of derivative transactions, many of which are intended to hedge our market-making risk, including credit derivatives, that require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm. Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While a transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, we may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. Specialist and market-maker rules require us to make unprofitable trades and refrain from making profitable trades. Our roles as a specialist/DMM and market maker, at times, require us to make trades that adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as a specialist/DMM and market-maker, we are at times required to refrain from trading for our own account in circumstances in which it may be to our advantage to trade. For example, we may be obligated to act as a principal when buyers or sellers outnumber each other and take a position counter to the market, buying or selling shares to support an orderly market in the affected stocks. By having to support an orderly market, maintain inventory positions and refrain from trading under some favorable conditions, we are subject to risk. Our market-making compliance systems, which are designed to monitor compliance with these rules may malfunction or may not timely detect failures to satisfy these obligations, which could result in fines and/or penalties. In many cases where we comply with our obligations, our compliance with rules could cause us to generate losses. Failure to comply with net capital and net liquid asset requirements may result in the revocation of our registration with the SEC or our expulsion from the NYSE and/or the AMEX. The SEC, the NYSE, the AMEX and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and NLA by securities broker-dealers. As of December 31, 2008, LaBranche & Co. LLC is required to maintain minimum NLA of approximately $73.7 million. Failure by any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain its required level of net capital and NLA may subject it to suspension or revocation of its SEC registration or suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and/or the applicable exchange. If this occurs, we would be unable to operate our business. In addition, a change in these rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large capital requirement or charge against the regulatory capital of any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries could limit those areas of our operations which require intensive use of capital. These rules also could restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries, thus limiting our ability to expand, diversify or even maintain our present levels of business, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Even after the reduction in our cash equity specialist/DMM net liquid asset requirements by 75% in February 2008, we continue to be subject to a higher net liquidity asset requirement than typical broker-dealers, and our failure to comply with those requirements could subject us to disciplinary action or cause us to devote additional capital to our specialist operations. 29 We depend primarily on our market-making activities, and if they fail to generate revenues as anticipated, it would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive the vast majority of our revenues from our market-making activities. If demand for our market-making services fails to grow, grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or declines, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We expect our specialist and market-making activities to continue to account for the vast majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future success will depend on: • maintaining and/or growing our trading volume in our market making securities; • growth in the number of securities in which we are chosen as the designated market maker and the addition of international and domestic venues on which we are market-maker; • our ability to be effective and maintain our reputation as an efficient and willing market-maker among the broker-dealer community; • our ability to respond to regulatory and technological changes; and • our ability to respond to changing demands in the marketplace. Over the past few years, a number of alternative trading systems have been developed or emerged. These alternative trading systems may compete with market-makers by increasing trading in exchange-listed off the trading floors and fragmentizing the size and placement of orders. This can be seen in the decrease in the NYSE’s percentage of overall U.S. trading volume from approximately 84.0% in 2002 to approximately 26.2% in 2008. In addition, as described above, the SEC and the NYSE’s market structure rule changes could result in increased trading of exchange-listed securities in electronically-matched orders and thus reduce levels of trading of such securities through market-makers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to effectively compete in the market-making industry. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors in the market-making industry. We obtain all our new cash equity listings on the NYSE by going through an allocation process. In this process, either a committee of the NYSE or the listing company chooses the DMM. The competition for obtaining new listing companies is intense. We expect competition to continue and further intensify in the future. We also compete with significantly larger entities to be the market-maker in ETFs. Although we have been able to secure a market share of the ETF market-making business with many of the established ETF issuers, we cannot assure you that our growth in market share will continue as our competitors focus more resources on their ETF business or as market participants enter the ETF market. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have in our market-making activities and may have greater name recognition. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities and listing company requirements. They also may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities to attract new listing companies. Our failure to compete effectively would have an adverse effect on our operating results. We have significant debt obligations that can adversely impact our margins and flexibility of operations. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt outstanding was $199.3 million. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes may be impaired; • our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because we dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; and • limitation on our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. 30 Our ability to take certain actions may be restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. The covenants in the indenture governing our outstanding 11.0% Senior Notes due 2012, in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $199.3 million (the “outstanding senior notes”), as well as any future financing agreements, may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. These covenants may limit or restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances, to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make distributions; • repurchase our common stock or subordinated indebtedness prior to maturity; • make certain investments; • create liens on our assets; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; or • merge or consolidate. For example, our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional indebtedness (other than certain “permitted indebtedness”) or making certain “restricted payments” (such as paying dividends, redeeming stock or repurchasing subordinated indebtedness prior to maturity), is limited if our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined by our debt covenants and calculated on a trailing four-quarter basis, is at or below a threshold of 2.00:1, as more fully described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources.” As of December 31, 2008 our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio was above 2:00:1, but in 2007 and 2006, the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio was below 2.00:1. Thus, in previous years we were prohibited from making “restricted payments” exceeding $15.0 million in the aggregate over the life of the indenture. In addition, under the indenture governing our outstanding senior notes, even when our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio is greater than 2.00:1, we cannot make any such “restricted payments” if doing so will cause our cumulative “restricted payments” since May 18, 2004 to be greater than the sum of (A) 50.0% of our cumulative consolidated net income since July 1, 2004 (or, if such calculation is a loss, minus 100.0% of such loss) and (B) 100.0% of the net cash proceeds received from any issuance or sale of our capital stock since July 1, 2004 and certain other amounts. In 2008, we have made restricted payments of approximately $16.4 million, for the repurchase of our common stock. We cannot be sure if, when or to what extent the covenants in the indenture will prevent us from making restricted payments in the future. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations, including payments on the outstanding senior notes. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be, to an extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including the outstanding senior notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flows from operations are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the outstanding senior notes, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to repay or refinance our debt, including the outstanding senior notes, on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. 31 We may not be able to finance a change of control offer or any other acceleration of the indebtedness of required by the indenture governing the outstanding senior notes. If we were to experience a change of control, we would be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes then-outstanding at a price equal to 101.0% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. Similarly, if we experience an event of default under the indenture, we may be required to repurchase all of the then-outstanding senior notes at a price of 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. This purchase requirement may delay or make it harder for others to obtain control of us. If a change of control were to occur, it is possible that we would not have sufficient funds to repurchase these notes. If we do not have sufficient funds at the time of a repurchase obligation or cannot meet any obligations under the subordinated note purchase agreements or the indenture governing the outstanding senior notes, we would be forced to seek additional third-party financing. However, it is possible that we would not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our success depends on our ability to accurately process and record our transactions, and any failure to do so could subject us to losses. Our market-making and institutional brokerage activities require us to accurately record and process a very large number of transactions on a daily basis. Any failure or delay in recording or processing transactions could cause substantial losses for brokers, their customers and/or us and could subject us to claims for losses. We rely on our staff to operate and maintain our information and communications systems properly, and we depend on the integrity and performance of those systems. Our recording and processing of trades is subject to human and processing errors. Moreover, extraordinary trading volume or other events could cause our information and communications systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of our information systems or any other systems in the trading process could cause us to fail to complete transactions or could cause brokers who place trades through us to suffer delays in trading. Any information or communication systems failure or decrease in information or communications systems performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Our systems may fail as a result of a hardware, software, power or telecommunications failure. In addition, our offices are located in close proximity to the site of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. The aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center required us to close our operations and temporarily operate from our disaster recovery site. The NYSE and AMEX were also forced to stop operating for four consecutive trading days, which caused our operations to halt. It is possible that additional terrorist attacks or acts of war may occur in the future and that such attacks could compromise or disable our systems. Although we have established back-up disaster recovery centers in New York and internationally and have an overall business continuity plan in the event of another disaster, these measures may not be effective in preventing an interruption of our business. We also are dependent on the proper and timely function of complex information and communications systems maintained and operated by or for the NYSE, the other exchanges on which we operate, and clearing and depositary institutions. Failures or inadequate or slow performance of any of these systems could adversely affect our ability to operate and complete trades. The failure to complete trades on a timely basis could subject us to losses and claims for losses of brokers and their customers. We may have difficulty successfully managing the evolution of our business. The transition of our business model to a more electronic trading marketplace has increased the demands upon our management and operations. This evolution has required, and will continue to require, an increase in investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities. The scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including SOX, has changed as the complexity of our business has increased. Although the size of our workforce significantly declined in 2006 and 32 2007, many of our SOX policies, processes and controls have not, which means we have fewer employees to ensure these controls are completed. We have implemented formal compliance procedures that are regularly updated but in the changing economic and regulatory environment, especially due to the merger of NYSE Regulation and the NASD and proposed new rules and market structures noted above, we may be unable to timely adapt our compliance personnel and procedures to keep up in the changing environment. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to continue: • to improve our systems for operations, financial control and communication and information management; • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; • to raise additional capital if and when needed; • to effectively deploy assets, capital or workforce; • to maintain strong relationships with, and attract new securities listings; and • to retain and incentivize our employees. Three of our current or former executive officers are in a position to substantially affect matters requiring a stockholder vote. Certain of our current and former managing directors who currently own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock have entered into a stockholders’ agreement under which they have agreed, among other things, that their shares of our common stock will be voted, for as long as they own their shares, as directed by a majority vote of George M.L. LaBranche, IV, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Alfred O. Hayward, Jr., our executive officer, director and Chief Executive Officer of LaBranche & Co. LLC, and James G. Gallagher, a former executive officer and director. Accordingly, these individuals have the ability to substantially influence the outcome of most matters requiring approval by our common stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, a merger or consolidation, a takeover or another business combination. Risks Associated with the NYSE Acquisitions and Merger of NYSE Regulation and the NASD Regulation The value of the NYSE Euronext Inc. stock we continue to hold following the NYSE/Archipelago merger and NYSE/Euronext merger may significantly lose value. In connection with the March 2006 NYSE/Archipelago merger, we received approximately 3.1 million shares of NYSE Group, Inc. common stock in exchange for the 39 NYSE memberships which we previously owned. In connection with the April 2007 NYSE/ Euronext merger, we received an identical number of shares of NYSE Euronext, Inc. common stock in exchange for the 3.1 million shares of NYSE Group, Inc. common stock we had owned (collectively, the “NYX shares”). We also received an additional 8,138 shares of NYX stock in the October 2008 acquisition by the NYSE of the AMEX. We continue to hold all the NYX shares we received in the mergers today, and a large portion of the NYX shares are held as regulatory capital. There is a risk that there could be a significant drop in the value of the NYX shares prior to the time we are able, if we choose, to monetize such shares. In addition, because a large portion of our NYX shares are held as regulatory capital, a large drop in price could require us to inject additional cash into our broker-dealer subsidiary to replace the value lost in the price decline. We currently mark our NYX shares to market daily. Any substantial drop in the value of NYX shares could require us to consider whether such drop in value has created an impairment of our intangible assets. Such an impairment, if any, would adversely affect our financial results for the fiscal period in which an impairment occurs. Furthermore, any significant losses or gains based on the market price of NYX stock on the last day of a reporting period compared to the first day in that period would require us to recognize a non-cash loss or gain in our income statement for each period, respectively, which could result in a decline or increase in our stock price based on something other than our reported operating results. 33 The regulatory environment following the NYSE’s completed mergers and the merger of NYSE Regulation’s and NASD Regulation could change and thereby adversely affect our compliance and strategic efforts. In July 2007, NYSE Regulation and NASD Regulation consummated their merger and the surviving entity was renamed the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Following the merger, NYSE Regulation currently performs many of the regulatory functions of the NYSE and the NYSE Arca Exchange, through its Market Surveillance Division, and now refers certain matters to FINRA for further review and, if necessary, regulatory action. The NYSE has stated that technology is playing a greater role in trading, compliance and regulation. It is possible that these factors could cause regulatory or technological errors, especially if NYSE Regulation is unable to adequately self-fund its operations. These technological errors could also result in investigations that we may have to defend that are without merit and could cause us to expend significant resources to defend them. The consolidation of NYSE Regulation and NASD Regulation into FINRA has resulted in a single regulatory division that will be responsible for member examination, enforcement, arbitration and mediation, as well as market regulation for the NYSE, NASDAQ, AMEX, ISE and Chicago Climate exchanges. This environment could produce additional regulatory scrutiny, which could cause us to expend additional resources to monitor and enhance our compliance with NYSE and other exchange rules. We also may be required to expend substantial resources to coordinate our technological compliance systems with the new technological requirements of the NYSE, AMEX and other markets, which could increase our overall Market-Making segment operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, FINRA has publicly stated that it is working to coordinate a uniform set of rules that apply to all broker-dealers on every exchange under its purview. These uniform rules are under development and we do not currently know what effect, if any, the new proposed coordinated rules will have on our business. Until the uniform rules are implemented, our broker-dealer subsidiaries remain subject to the same exchange rules as they existed prior to the formation of FINRA, subject to the changes implemented by the individual exchanges from time to time. Many of these exchange rules are now obsolete, due to Regulation NMS and the advent of electronic trading, and many of these exchange rules have not been interpreted under the new trading environment. It is possible that our interpretation of these rules as they apply to our operations could be different than interpretations by FINRA in the future. Although we continually attempt to communicate our interpretations of exchange rules to FINRA where we are unclear of their application, a different interpretation by FINRA could adversely affect our operations or expose us to regulatory scrutiny and or violations. The role of the specialist on the NYSE has changed and may substantially change in the future under yet-to-be announced regulatory and market changes, and we may not be able to timely adapt. The NYSE implemented its new market model in December 2008 as addressed above in “Business—Rules Governing our Designated Market Maker Activities—New NYSE Market Model and Designated Market Maker Rules” and as described more completely in “Risk Factors,” changing the role of specialists to “designated market makers” to still provide liquidity without some of the negative and affirmative obligations that could, at times, adversely affect profitability. The purported rule changes could also change the timing of when the DMM can see orders, but would allow them to receive “enhanced” liquidity requests to enable the designated market maker to provide liquidity and trade for its own account when it desires to do so. The changes brought on by the new market model have not yet been fully realized and the effects on our revenues cannot yet be understood, due to the fact that it was only recently fully implemented in the last week of December 2008. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 34 