Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent to our business. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE We have a limited operating history executing our new strategy. While we have been in existence for a number of years, we only commenced implementing the new business strategy in May 2012. As a result, we are subject to many of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we may not achieve our investment objectives and that, as a result, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. We may suffer losses on our principal invested in credit and royalty transactions. Many of our investments may be in small- and middle- market businesses, which are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk of credit loss. In addition, we may own royalties or invest in debt backed by royalties that are derived by products that are early in their commercial launch or are subject to intense competition, which similarly involve a high degree of risk of principal loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, such as what the U.S. and many other economies have recently been experiencing. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete with non-bank financial institutions, federal or state chartered banks, venture debt funds, financial institutions, venture capital funds, private equity funds, investment funds and investment banks. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including investments in middle-market companies, which may overlap with our investment strategy. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in middle-market companies has intensified a trend we expect to continue. 6 Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more or fuller relationships with potential business partners than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of existing and increasing competition and our competitor’s ability to provide a total package solution, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the cost of the capital that we provide, and we believe that some of our competitors provide capital at rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest and royalty income and increased risk of credit loss. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our ability to continue to identify, analyze, invest in and monitor royalties and/or companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our structuring of investments and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we continue to grow, we will need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management and their access to the investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by these investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. Our senior management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes, monitors and services our investments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of this senior management team, namely Brett Pope and Winston Black. The departure of either of these individuals could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. If we are unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing, or if we seek to enhance our returns through the use of leverage, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have limited capital to make investments and will need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund future growth and obtain funds which may be made available for investments. If we are unable to enter into new debt or equity financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, our liquidity may be reduced significantly once we invest the existing capital on our balance sheet, and as a result, our ability to implement and grow our business strategy could be materially impacted. In addition, although the use of leverage may create an opportunity for increased returns for us, it also results in additional risks and can magnify the effect of any losses and thus could negatively impact our business and results of operations and have important adverse consequences to our investments. It is likely that any debt we incur will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants that may restrict our operating flexibility, including covenants that, among others, likely will limit our ability to: (i) pay distributions in certain circumstances, (ii) incur additional debt, and (iii) engage in certain transactions. If we secure our leverage through the pledging of collateral and if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet principal and interest payments on such indebtedness, we will be subject to risk that a lender seizes our assets through margin calls or otherwise that could require liquidation of investments at inopportune times or at prices that are not favorable to us and cause significant losses. If a lender seizes and liquidates pledged collateral, such collateral will likely be sold at distressed price levels. We will fail to realize the full value of such asset in a distressed sale. 7 We expect that any credit facility will have customary affirmative covenant, negative covenant and default provisions. Our investments in prospective portfolio companies and the products underlying the royalty streams in which we invest may be risky and we could lose all or part of our investment. Some of our portfolio companies may have relatively short or no operating histories. These companies are and will be subject to all of the business risk and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that these companies may not reach their investment objectives and the value of our investment in them may decline substantially or fall to zero. Similarly, the products underlying royalty streams in which we invest may have relatively short or no sales history, or may be established products that are subject to intense competition from newer, more innovative or better marketed products. If these products do not achieve commercial success or attain lower sales than we estimate, we may lose value on our investments. In addition, investment in the middle-market companies that we are targeting involves a number of other significant risks, including: · these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their securities or of any collateral with respect to any securities and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; · they may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; · because many of these companies are privately held companies, public information is generally limited about these companies. As a result, we will depend on the ability of our senior management to obtain adequate information to evaluate these companies in making investment decisions. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; · they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a materially adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; · they may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in changing businesses with products subject to a risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; · changes in laws and regulations, as well as their interpretations, may adversely affect their business, financial structure or prospects; · they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; and · increased taxes, regulatory expense or the costs of changes to the way they conduct business due to the effects of climate change may adversely affect their business, financial structure or prospects. Currently, our portfolio contains a limited number of investments, which subjects us to a greater risk of significant loss if any of our portfolio investments declines in value due to a default on its obligations under any of its debt securities or if any of our royalty investments substantially underperforms our expectations . A consequence of the limited number of investments currently in our portfolio is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if one or more of our significant portfolio company investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one significant investment. 8 We generally do not control portfolio investments. We do not, and do not expect to, control any of our portfolio companies, even though the Company may have board representation or board observation rights, and the debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants that limit the business and operations of its portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as minority investors. If we make unsecured investments, those investments might not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. We may make unsecured investments. Unsecured investments may be subordinated to other obligations of the obligor. Unsecured investments often reflect a greater possibility that adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or general economic conditions (including, for example, a substantial period of rising interest rates or declining earnings) or both may impair the ability of the obligor to make payment of principal and interest. If we make an unsecured investment in a portfolio company, that portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may increase the risk that its operations might not generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations. We may have limited access to information about privately held companies in which we invest. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our senior management to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investment. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Co-Investments with Third Parties We may co-invest with third parties through our registered investment advisory business or otherwise. In certain circumstances, we may not be able to fund transactions without the participations of such third parties. In the event that we are unable to find suitable third parties to co-invest with us or if such third party fails to close, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuation as a result of the nature of our business, and if we fail to achieve our investment objective, the market price of our common stock may decline. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the interest rate payable on the debt securities that we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, changes in our portfolio composition, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, market volatility in our publicly traded securities and the securities of our portfolio companies, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. In addition, any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 9 Our investments in royalty-related transactions depend on third parties to market royalty-generating products. Royalties generally, and the royalty-related income we expect to receive in the future (via owning royalty interests outright or through interest income earned in a debt monetization of a royalty), will directly or indirectly depend upon the marketing efforts of third parties, particularly large pharmaceutical companies that license the right to manufacture and sell products in exchange for royalty payments to the licensors (the “Licensee”) with whom we may transact. These Licensees may be motivated to maximize income by allocating resources to other products and, in the future, may decide to focus less attention on the products that pay royalties in which we have an economic interest. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the Licensees has adequate resources and motivation to continue to produce, market and sell such products in which we have a royalty-related interest. Moreover, the license agreement creating the right to receive royalties may not have specific sales targets and the Licensee typically has exclusive or substantial discretion in determining its marketing plans and efforts. As a result, the Licensee may not be restricted from abandoning a licensed product or from developing or selling a competitive product. In addition, in the event that a license expires or is terminated, we would be dependent upon the licensor of the license (the “Licensor”) to find another marketing partner. There can be no assurance that another licensee could be found on favorable terms, or at all, or that the Licensor will be able to assume marketing, sales and distribution responsibility for its own account. These factors may materially adversely affect any of our future royalty-related assets. Aside from any limited audit rights relating to the activities of the Licensees that we may have in certain circumstances, we do not have the rights or ability to manage the operations of the Licensees. Poor management of operations by the Licensees could adversely affect the sales of products in which we have a royalty interest, and the payment of royalty-related income to us. In addition, we have limited information on the Licensees’ operations. While we may be able to receive certain information relating to sales of the product in which we have a royalty-related interest through the exercise of the audit rights and review of royalty reports, we will not have the right to review or receive certain information relating to the marketed products, including the results of any studies conducted by the Licensees or others or complaints from doctors or users of such products, that the Licensees may have and that may impact sales levels. The market performance of such products, therefore, may be diminished by any number of factors relating to the Licensees that are beyond our control. Economic recessions or downturns could impair the ability of our portfolio companies to repay loans, which, in turn, could increase our non-performing assets, decrease the value of our portfolio, reduce our volume of new loans and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions in both the U.S. and foreign countries and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of the portfolio company’s loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt or secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant “managerial assistance,” if any, to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. These events could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Generally, we do not control our portfolio companies. These portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities and greater number of qualified and experienced managerial and technical personnel. They may need additional financing which they are unable to secure and which we are unable or unwilling to provide, or they may be subject to adverse developments unrelated to the technologies they acquire. Risks Associated with Investments in the Life Science Industry Our investments in the healthcare and life science industries are subject to extensive government regulation, litigation risk and certain other risks particular to that industry. We have invested and plan to continue investing in cash flow streams produced by life science products that are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and to a lesser extent, other federal, state and other foreign agencies. If any of these products and the companies which manage such products fails to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their sales levels and operations. Medical devices and drugs are subject to the expense, delay and uncertainty of the regulatory approval process in order to reach the market and, even if approved, these products may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, governmental budgetary constraints effecting the regulatory approval process, new laws, regulations or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations might adversely affect a portfolio company in this industry. Companies in the life science industry may also have a limited number of suppliers of necessary components or a limited number of manufacturers for their products, and therefore face a risk of disruption to their manufacturing process if they are unable to find alternative suppliers when needed. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in this industry or the Licensee’s operations, which in turn, would impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us or decrease our royalty-related income. Our investments in the life science industry are subject to numerous risks, including competition, extensive government regulation, product liability, patent exclusivity and commercial difficulties. Our investments in the pharmaceutical industry are subject to numerous risks. The successful and timely implementation of the business model of our specialty pharmaceutical and drug discovery portfolio companies depends on their ability to adapt to changing technologies and introduce new products. As competitors continue to introduce competitive products, the ability of our portfolio companies to continue effectively marketing their existing product portfolio, and to develop and acquire innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patient’s and clinician’s ease of use and cost-effectiveness is important to the success of such portfolio companies. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including the ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, obtain or maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property, and differentiate products from competitors. Failure by our portfolio companies to successfully commercialize existing, planned products or acquire other new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the ability of generic manufactures to invalidate a portfolio company’s patents protecting its products or to invalidate the patents supporting products in which we receive royalty-related income could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the development of products by life science companies requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. In addition, similar activities and costs may be required to support products that have already been commercialized. The results of product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including the ability to innovate, develop and manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of products. In addition, regulatory review processes by U.S. and foreign agencies may extend longer than anticipated as a result of decreased funding and tighter fiscal budgets. Further, patents attained by others can preclude or delay the commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance. Failure can occur at any point in the development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others. Future legislation, and/or regulations and policies adopted by the FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities may increase the time and cost required by some of our portfolio companies to conduct and complete clinical trials for the product candidates that they develop, and there is no assurance that these companies will obtain regulatory approval to market and commercialize their products in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The FDA has established regulations, guidelines and policies to govern the drug development and approval process, as have foreign regulatory authorities, which affect some of our portfolio companies. Any change in regulatory requirements due to the adoption by the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities of new legislation, regulations, or policies may require some of our portfolio companies to amend existing clinical trial protocols or add new clinical trials to comply with these changes. Such amendments to existing protocols and/or clinical trial applications or the need for new ones, may significantly impact the cost, timing and completion of the clinical trials. 10 In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s and other authorities approval processes may significantly delay or prevent regulatory approval, as well as impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. Foreign regulatory authorities may also increase their scrutiny of approval processes resulting in similar delays. Increased scrutiny and approval processes may limit the ability of our portfolio companies to market and commercialize their products in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Changes in healthcare laws and other regulations applicable to some of our portfolio companies’ businesses may constrain their ability to offer their products and services. Changes in healthcare or other laws and regulations applicable to the businesses of some of our portfolio companies may occur that could increase their compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems enhancements, or render their products or services less profitable or obsolete, any of which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations. There has also been an increased political and regulatory focus on healthcare laws in recent years, and new legislation could have a material effect on the business and operations of some of our portfolio companies. Risks Associated with the Company and our Capital Structure Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Since October 2005, our common stock has been quoted on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is generally considered less efficient than exchanges such as The New York Stock Exchange and The NASDAQ Stock Market. Quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB may reduce the liquidity of our securities, limit the number of investors who trade in our securities, result in a lower stock price and larger spread in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may become subject to the SEC rules that affect “penny stocks,” which are stocks below $5.00 per share that are not quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market. These SEC rules would make it more difficult for brokers to find buyers for our securities and could lower the net sales prices that our stockholders are able to obtain. If our price of common stock remains low, we may not be able to raise equity capital. 11 Our listing on the OTCBB and our low stock price may greatly impair our ability to raise any future necessary capital through equity or debt financing and significantly increase the dilution to our current stockholders caused by any issuance of equity in financing or other transactions. The price at which we would issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock, and a decline in the stock price could result in our need to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding. In addition, because our common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, we are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds will not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). We have adopted charter and bylaw provisions and a Rights Agreement that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company. The Board has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, the Board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of common stock. Although the ability to issue this preferred stock provides us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, it can also be used to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. Additionally, we have a stockholder rights plan that is intended to protect our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards and which would also make it difficult for a third party to acquire a significant number of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest. Furthermore, the Board is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year. In addition, directors are only removable by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all classes of voting stock. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of the Company. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have not been and do not intend to become regulated as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “40 Act”) because the nature of our assets and the sources of our income exclude us from the definition of an investment company pursuant to Section (3) (a) (1) (C) under the 40 Act. Generally, a person is an “investment company” if it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or owns or proposes to own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, unless an exception, exemption or safe harbor applies. We refer to this investment company definition test as the “40% Test.” We monitor our compliance with the 40% Test and seek to conduct our business activities to comply with this test. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the restrictions imposed by the 40 Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy. In order to continue to comply with the 40% Test, we may need to take various actions which we would otherwise not pursue. The actions we may need to take to address these issues while maintaining compliance with the 40% Test (or another exception or exemption from regulation as an investment company), including restructuring or terminating the Company, could adversely affect our ability to create and realize shareholder value. In addition, we believe we are not an investment company under the 40 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(A) because our finance receivables and royalty-related assets generate income from the sales of products and services. Section 3(c)(5)(A) provides for exception from registration as an Investment Company if a company is engaged primarily in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts receivable, and other obligations representing part of all of the sales price of merchandise, insurance and services. While, we intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 40 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 