ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risks and uncertainty, including but not limited to the specific risks identified below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that impair our business operations. Any of these risks could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual results to differ materially from expectations. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this report and our other public filings. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The relatively large size of many of our expected license transactions could contribute to our failure to meet expected sales in any given quarter and could materially harm our operating results. Our quarterly revenues are especially subject to fluctuation because they depend on the completion of relatively large orders for our products and related services. The average size of our license transactions is generally large relative to our total revenue in any quarter, particularly as we have focused on larger enterprise customers, on licensing our more comprehensive integrated products, and have involved system integrators in our sales process. If sales expected from a specific customer in a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, we are unlikely to be able to generate revenue from alternate sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. This dependence on large orders makes our net revenue and operating results more likely to vary from quarter to quarter, and more difficult to predict, because the loss of any particular large order is significant. In recent periods, we have experienced increases in the length of a typical sales cycle. This trend may add to the uncertainty of our future operating results and reduce our ability to anticipate our future revenues. Moreover, to the extent that significant sales occur earlier than anticipated, revenues for subsequent quarters may be lower than expected. As a result, our operating results could suffer if any large orders are delayed or canceled in any future period. In part as a result of this aspect of our business, our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet the expectations of investors and public market analysts, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We expect the concentration of revenues among fewer customers to continue in the future. We may not be able to forecast our revenues accurately because our products have a long and variable sales cycle and we rely on systems integrator partners for sales. The long sales cycle for our products may cause license revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. To date, the sales cycle for most of our product sales has taken anywhere from 6 to 18 months. We believe that many existing and potential customers have reassessed and reduced their planned technology and software investments and are deferring purchasing decisions, requiring additional evaluations and levels of internal approval for software investment and lengthening their purchase cycles. Our sales cycle typically requires pre-purchase evaluation by a significant number of individuals in our customers’ organizations. Along with third parties that often jointly market our software with us, we invest significant amounts of time and resources educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Many of our customers evaluate our software slowly and deliberately, depending on the specific technical capabilities of the customer, the size of the deployment, the complexity of the customer’s network environment, and the quantity of hardware and the degree of hardware configuration necessary to deploy our products. The continuing stagnancy of information technology spending in our markets has led to a significant increase in the time required for this process. Furthermore, we increasingly rely on systems integrators to identify, influence and manage large transactions with customers, and we expect this trend to continue as our industry consolidates. Selling our products in conjunction with our systems integrators who incorporate our products into their offerings can involve a particularly long and unpredictable sales cycle, as it typically takes more time for the prospective customer to evaluate proposals from multiple vendors. In addition, when systems integrators propose the use of our products to their customers, it is typically part of a larger project, which can require more levels of customer approvals. We have little or no control over the sales cycle of an integrator-led transaction or our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal decision-making and acceptance processes. 8 Table of Contents As a result of increasingly long sales cycles, we have faced increased difficulty in predicting our operating results for any given period, and have experienced significant unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues from period to period. Any failure to achieve anticipated revenues for a period could cause our stock price to decline. Our business relies heavily on customer service solutions, and these solutions may not gain market acceptance. We have made customer service solutions our main focus and, in recent periods, have allocated a significant portion of our research and development and marketing resources to the development and promotion of such products. If these products are not accepted by potential customers, our business would be materially adversely affected. For our current business model to succeed, we believe that we will need to convince new and existing customers of the merits of purchasing our customer service solutions over traditional customer relationship management, or CRM, solutions and competitors’ customer service solutions. Many of these customers have previously invested substantial resources in adopting and implementing their existing CRM products, whether such products are ours or are those of our competitors. We may be unable to convince customers and potential customers that it is worth them purchasing substantial new software packages to provide them with our specific customer service capabilities. If our strategy of offering customer service solutions fails, we may not be able to sell sufficient quantities of our product offerings to generate significant license revenues, and our business could be harmed. Our expenses are generally fixed and we will not be able to reduce these expenses quickly if we fail to meet our revenue expectations. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and outsourcing of technical support and certain development functions, are relatively fixed in the short term. Other expenses like leases are fixed and are more long term. Moreover, our forecast is based, in part, upon our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, in any particular quarter our total revenue can be below expectation and we could not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Accordingly, such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate negative effect on our expected operating results for that quarter. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues to support our business and require additional financing, failure to obtain such financing would affect our ability to maintain our operations and to grow our business, and the terms of any financing we obtain may impair the rights of our existing stockholders. In the future, we may be required to seek additional financing to fund our operations or growth, and such financing may not be available to us, or may impair the rights of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any failure to raise sufficient capital in a timely fashion could prevent us from growing or pursuing our strategies or cause us to limit our operations and cause potential customers to question our financial viability. We had cash and cash equivalents of $6.2 million at December 31, 2005. It is likely that our cash position could decrease over the next few quarters and some customers will be increasingly concerned about our cash situation and our ongoing ability to update and maintain our products. This could significantly harm our sales efforts. On November 30, 2005, the Company established a new banking relationship with Bridge Bank N.A. (“Bridge”). In addition, on November 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Business Financing Agreement and Intellectual Property Security Agreement with Bridge under which the Company has access to a Loan facility of $7.0 million (“Loan”). This Loan is made up of two parts, (i) a Formula Revolving Line of Credit of up to $5.0 million and (ii) a Non-Formula Revolving Line of Credit of up to $6.0 million, of which $2.0 million is available for a borrowing base for stand-by letters of credits, settlement limits on foreign exchange contracts (FX) or cash management products. The combined total borrowing under the two parts cannot exceed $7.0 million. The Formula Revolving Line of Credit is collateralized by all of our assets and expires November 29, 2006 at which time the entire balance under the line of credit will be due. Interest for the Formula Revolving Line of Credit accrues at Bridge’s Prime Lending Rate plus 2% while interest for the Non-Formula Revolving Line of Credit will accrue at Bridge’s Prime Lending Rate plus 0.50%. On December 29, 2005, the Company entered into a Business Financing Agreement, which provided for additional advances up to $1.5 million based on an advance rate of 80% of eligible receivables. The overall Loan Facility was increased to $7.5 million. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $7.4 million drawn against the Loan. On March 30, 2006, the Company modified the Business Financing Agreement with Bridge Bank to increase the additional advances for accounts receivable to $2.0 million and the overall Loan Facility to $8.0 million. Factors such as the commercial success of 9 Table of Contents our existing products and services, the timing and success of any new products and services, the progress of our research and development efforts, our results of operations, the status of competitive products and services, and the timing and success of potential strategic alliances or potential opportunities to acquire or sell technologies or assets may require us to seek additional funding sooner than we expect. In the event that we require additional cash, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, especially in the current uncertain market climate, and we may not be successful in implementing or negotiating other arrangements to improve our cash position. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced and the securities we issue might have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat business, our operating results could be harmed. Our business model generally depends on the sale of our products to new customers as well as on expanded use of our products within our customers’ organizations. If we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat and expanded business from our current and future customers, our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. In some cases, our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services for pilot programs. These customers may not purchase additional licenses to expand their use of our products. If these customers do not successfully develop and deploy initial applications based on our products, they may choose not to purchase deployment licenses or additional development licenses. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our products, new product lines or new product features, our current customers might not require the additional functionality we offer and might not ultimately license these products. Furthermore, because the total amount of maintenance and support fees we receive in any period depends in large part on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold; any downturn in our software license revenue would negatively affect our future services revenue. Also, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, our services revenue could decline significantly. If customers are unable to pay for their current products or are unwilling to purchase additional products, our revenues would decline. Additionally, a substantial percentage of our sales come from repeat customers. If a significant existing customer or a group of existing customers decide not to repeat business with us, our revenues would decline and our business would be harmed. We face substantial competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, evolving, and subject to rapid technological change. From time to time, our competitors reduce the prices of their products and services (substantially in certain cases) in order to obtain new customers. Competitive pressures could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers and could require us to reduce the price of our products. Our customers’ requirements and the technology available to satisfy those requirements are continually changing. Therefore, we must be able to respond to these changes in order to remain competitive. If our international development partners do not adequately perform the software programming, quality assurance and technical documentation activities we outsourced, we may not be able to respond to such changes as quickly or effectively. Changes in our products may also make it more difficult for our sales force to sell effectively. In addition, changes in customers’ demand for the specific products, product features, and services of other companies’ may result in our products becoming uncompetitive. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margin and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may seriously harm our business. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of products and services offered. We currently face competition with our products from systems designed in-house and by our competitors. We expect that these systems will continue to be a major source of competition for the foreseeable future. Our primary competitors for eCRM platforms are larger, more established companies such as Oracle, which recently acquired Siebel Systems. The rate that competitors are consolidating is increasing. We also face competition from Chordiant Software, ATG, Amdocs, Knova, Talisma, eGain, RightNow, Instranet, and Pegasystems with respect to specific applications we 10 Table of Contents offer. We may face increased competition upon introduction of new products or upgrades from competitors, or if we expand our product line through acquisition of complementary businesses or otherwise. As we have combined and enhanced our product lines to offer a more comprehensive software solution, we are increasingly competing with large, established providers of customer management and communication solutions as well as other competitors. Our combined product line may not be sufficient to successfully compete with the product offerings available from these companies, which could slow our growth and harm our business. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, significantly greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our industry. We may lose potential customers to competitors for various reasons, including the ability or willingness of competitors to offer lower prices and other incentives that we cannot match. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of recent industry consolidations, as well as anticipated future consolidations. We have a history of losses and may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Since we began operations in 1997, our revenues have not been sufficient to support our operations, and we have incurred substantial operating losses in every quarter. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $4.3 billion, which includes approximately $2.7 billion related to goodwill impairment charges. Our stockholders’ deficit at December 31, 2005, was $9.8 million. We continue to commit a substantial investment of resources to sales, product marketing, and developing new products and enhancements, and we will need to increase our revenue to achieve profitability and positive cash flows. Our expectations as to when we can achieve positive cash flows, and as to our future cash balances, are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding improvements in general economic conditions and customer purchasing and payment patterns, many of which are beyond our control. Our history of losses has previously caused some of our potential customers to question our viability, which has in turn hampered our ability to sell some of our products. Additionally, our revenue has been affected by the uncertain economic conditions in recent years, both generally and in our market. As a result of these conditions, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience difficulties in attracting new customers, which means that we may continue to experience losses, even if sales of our products and services grow. We rely on marketing, technology, and distribution relationships for the sale, installation and support of our products that may generally be terminated at any time, and if our current and future relationships are not successful, our growth might be limited. We rely on marketing and technology relationships with a variety of companies, including systems integrators and consulting firms that, among other things, generate leads for the sale of our products and provide our customers with implementation and ongoing support. If we cannot maintain successful marketing and technology relationships or if we fail to enter into additional such relationships, we could have difficulty expanding the sales of our products and our growth might be limited. A significant percentage of our revenues depend on leads generated by systems integrators, or “SIs”, and their recommendations of our products. If SIs do not successfully market our products, our operating results will be materially harmed. In addition, many of our direct sales are to customers that will be relying on SIs to implement our products, and if SIs are not familiar with our technology or able to successfully implement our products, our operating results will be materially harmed. We expect to continue increasing our leverage of SIs as indirect sales channels and, if this strategy is successful, our dependence on the efforts of these third parties for revenue growth and customer service will increase. Our reliance on third parties for these functions has reduced our control over such activities and reduced our ability to perform such functions internally. If we come to rely primarily on a single SI that subsequently terminates its relationship with us, becomes insolvent or is acquired by another company with which we have no relationship, or decides not to provide implementation services related to our products, we may not be able to internally generate sufficient revenue or increase the revenues generated by our other SI relationships to offset the resulting lost revenues. Furthermore, SIs typically suggest our solution in combination with other products and services, some of which may compete with our solution. SIs are not required to promote any fixed 11 Table of Contents quantities of our products, are not bound to promote our products exclusively, and may act as indirect sales channels for our competitors. If these companies choose not to promote our products or if they develop, market, or recommend software applications that compete with our products, our business will be harmed. In addition to relying on SIs to recommend our products, we also rely on SIs and other third-party resellers to install and support our products. If the companies providing these services fail to implement our products successfully for our customers, the customer may be unable to complete implementation on the schedule that it had anticipated and we may have increased customer dissatisfaction or difficulty making future sales as a result. We might not be able to maintain our relationships with SIs and other indirect sales channel partners and enter into additional relationships that will provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. If we cannot maintain successful relationships with our indirect sales channel partners, we might have difficulty expanding the sales of our products and our growth could be limited. In addition, if such third parties do not provide the support our customers need, we may be required to hire subcontractors to provide these professional services. Increased use of subcontractors would harm our margins because it costs us more to hire subcontractors to perform these services than it would to provide the services ourselves. Reductions in our workforce may adversely affect our ability to release products and product updates in a timely manner. We have substantially reduced our headcount over the last two years from a total of 211 as of December 31, 2003 to 181 as of December 31, 2004 to 125 as of December 31, 2005. The majority of this reduction was the result of our decision to shift a significant portion of our software programming, quality assurance, and technical documentation activities to international development partners in early 2003. We reduced the size of our research and development department from 88 employees as of December 31, 2003 to 34 employees as of December 31, 2004, and to 30 employees as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we reduced the level of our expenditures on outsourced development in 2005 (the Company announced plans to further reduce headcount in certain locations and concentrate R&D efforts in our Headquarters in Menlo Park, California). The reductions in our research and development headcount and the reductions in our outsourced development capacity may limit our ability to release products within expected timeframes. For example, many of the employees who were terminated in headcount reductions possessed specific knowledge or expertise that may prove to have been important to our operation. As a result of these staff reductions, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. Personnel reductions may also subject us to the risk of litigation, which may adversely impact our ability to conduct our operations and may cause us to incur significant expense. Our termination of two outsourcing arrangements in early 2005 may further reduce our ability to respond to development challenges and to introduce new products in expected timeframes. We may be unable to hire and retain the skilled personnel necessary to develop and grow our business. Concern over our long-term financial strength may create concern among existing employees about job security, which could lead to increased turnover and reduce our ability to meet the needs of our current and future customers. Because our stock price declined drastically in recent years, and has not experienced any sustained recovery from the decline, stock-based compensation, including options to purchase our common stock, may have diminished effectiveness as employee hiring and retention devices. If we are unable to retain qualified personnel, we could face disruptions to operations, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. If employee turnover increases, our ability to provide customer service and execute our strategy would be negatively affected. For example, our ability to increase revenues in the future depends considerably upon our success in training and retaining effective direct sales personnel and the success of our direct sales force. We might not be successful in these efforts. Our products and services require sophisticated sales efforts. We have experienced significant turnover in our sales force including domestic senior sales management, and may experience further turnover in future periods. It generally takes a new salesperson nine or more months to become productive, and they may not be able to generate new sales. Our business will be harmed if we fail to retain qualified sales personnel, or if newly hired salespeople fail to develop the necessary sales skills or develop these skills more slowly than anticipated. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to respond to changing customer preferences in our market, demand for our products and our ability to enhance our revenues will suffer. If we do not continue to improve our products and develop new products that keep pace with competitive product introductions and technological developments, satisfy diverse and rapidly evolving customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance, we might be unable to attract new customers. Our industry is characterized by rapid and substantial developments in the technologies and products that enjoy widespread acceptance among prospective and existing customers. The development of proprietary technology and necessary service enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. In addition, if our international development partners fail to provide the development support we need, our products and product documentation could fall behind those produced by our competitors, causing us to lose customers and sales. We might not be successful in marketing and supporting our products or developing and marketing other product enhancements and new products that respond to technological advances and market changes, on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, even if these products are developed and released, they might not achieve market acceptance. We have experienced delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the past and could experience similar delays in the future. These delays or problems in the installation or implementation of our new releases could cause us to lose customers. Our failure to manage multiple technologies and technological change could reduce demand for our products. Rapidly changing technology and operating systems, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards might impede market acceptance of our products. Our products are designed based upon currently prevailing technology to work on a variety of hardware and software platforms used by our customers. However, our software may not operate correctly on evolving versions of hardware and software platforms, programming languages, database environments and other systems that our customers use. If new technologies emerge that are incompatible with our products, or if competing products emerge that are based on new technologies or new industry standards and that perform better or cost less than our products, our key products could become obsolete and our existing and potential customers could seek alternatives to our products. We must constantly modify and improve our products to keep pace with changes made to these platforms and to database systems and other back-office applications and Internet-related applications. Furthermore, software adapters are necessary to integrate our products with other systems and data sources used by our customers. We must develop and update these adapters to reflect changes to these systems and data sources in order to maintain the functionality provided by our products. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements, introductions or modifications by vendors of operating systems, databases, customer relationship management software, web servers and other enterprise and Internet-based applications could delay our product development, increase our product development expense or cause customers to delay evaluation, purchase and deployment of our analytics products. Furthermore, if our international development partners fail to respond adequately when adaptation of our products is required, our ability to respond would be hampered even if such uncertainties were eliminated. If we fail to modify or improve our products in response to evolving industry standards, our products could rapidly become obsolete. Failure to develop new products or enhancements to existing products on a timely basis would hurt our sales and damage our reputation. The challenges of developing new products and enhancements require us to commit a substantial investment of resources to development, and we might not be able to develop or introduce new products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all, which could be exploited by our competitors and lead potential customers to choose alternative products. To be competitive, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements for companies with significant e-business customer interactions needs. Our ability to deliver competitive products may be negatively affected by the diversion of resources to development of our suite of products, and responding to changes in competitive products and in the demands of our customers. If we experience product delays in the future, we may face: • customer dissatisfaction; • cancellation of orders and license agreements; • negative publicity; 13 Table of Contents • loss of revenues; and • slower market acceptance Furthermore, delays in bringing new products or enhancements to market can result, for example, from potential difficulties with managing outsourced research and development, including overseeing such activities occurring in India and China or from loss of institutional knowledge through reductions in force, or the existence of defects in new products or their enhancements. Failure to license necessary third party software incorporated in our products could cause delays or reductions in our sales. We license third party software that we incorporate into our products. These licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology would be difficult to replace. The loss of any of these licenses could result in delays or reductions of our applications until we identify, license and integrate or develop equivalent software. If we are required to enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technology, we could face higher royalty payments and our products may lose certain attributes or features. In the future, we might need to license other software to enhance our products and meet evolving customer needs. If we are unable to do this, we could experience reduced demand for our products. Our independent registered public accounting firm has identified material weaknesses in our internal controls that, if not remediated, could affect our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial reports, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. In the course of the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm identified and reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a reportable condition in which our internal controls do not reduce to a low level the risk that undetected misstatements caused by error or fraud may occur in amounts that are material to our audited consolidated financial statements. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer performed an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures and found that they were not effective. First, we had weaknesses in our general accounting processes related to insufficient documentation and analyses to support our consolidated financial statements, failure to properly evaluate estimates of royalties due, and insufficient staffing in the accounting and reporting function, which is exacerbated by changes in management and accounting personnel and insufficient training of our accounting department. Second, there was no independent review of journal entries, and insufficient documentation or support for journal entries and consolidation entries. In a number of cases, these required adjustments to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004. Finally, during the first quarter of 2005, our Audit Committee completed an examination of certain of our internal controls relating to travel and entertainment expenses and determined that we had made erroneous expense reimbursements to our Chief Executive Officer and certain other executive officers, primarily as a result of inconsistent travel and entertainment policies, inadequate review of expense reimbursement requests and carelessness. Our management has determined that these deficiencies constitute material weaknesses as of December 31, 2004 that continued to exist during 2005. As a result, we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2005. (See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in Part II: Financial Information). We believe that these deficiencies did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements included in this report due to the fact that we performed substantial analysis on and for the December 31, 2005 and prior periods balances, including performing historical account reconciliations, having account balance analysis reviewed by senior management and reconstructing certain account balances. However, these deficiencies increase the risk that a transaction will not be accounted for consistently and in accordance with established policy or accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and they increase the risk of error. Management, with the oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, has begun to address these control deficiencies and is committed to effective remediation of all these deficiencies as expeditiously as possible. For instance, our new Chief Financial Officer joined the Company in mid October 2004. Some new 14 Table of Contents processes and controls have already been approved and are being implemented. The Company plans to develop and implement further improvements and additional controls. In addition, management believes that it has remediated the material weakness relating to travel and entertainment expense reimbursement during the first quarter of 2005. The Company’s other weaknesses will not be considered remediated until new internal controls are developed and implemented throughout the Company, are operational for a period of time and are tested, and management concludes that these controls are operating effectively. Our remediation measures may not be successful in correcting the material weakness reported by our independent registered public accounting firms. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. In addition, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to remediate the material weaknesses described above or to implement and maintain effective internal controls could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We face additional risks and costs as a result of the delayed filing of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2005, and March 31, 2006, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005. As a result of missing an established deadline with the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel for filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, we have experienced additional risks and costs. The March 31, 2005 10-Q was filed on October 11, 2005, past the NASDAQ Listing Qualification Panel’s established deadline of October 7, 2005; thus, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel delisted the Company’s common stock effective as of the beginning of trading on October 17, 2005. Since our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock has been severely limited, causing our stock price to continue to decline. As a result of our delayed filings, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one year. Instead, the Company may be required to use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would increase transaction costs and adversely affect our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies during this period. Our common stock was recently delisted from The NASDAQ National Market. Our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ National Market effective at the opening of business on October 17, 2005 and our common stock is currently trading on the “Pink Sheets.” This delisting will likely reduce the liquidity of our securities, could cause investors not to trade in our securities and result in a lower stock price and could have an adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, we may become subject to the SEC rules that affect “penny stocks,” which are stocks below $5.00 per share that are not quoted on a NASDAQ Market. These SEC rules would make it more difficult for brokers to find buyers for our securities and could lower the net sales prices that our stockholders are able to obtain. If our price of common stock remains low, we may not be able to raise equity capital. While we intend to seek to have our common stock quoted on the Over the Counter (“OTC”) Bulletin Board, there can be no assurances as to when, or whether, they will become quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our stock price has been highly volatile and has experienced a significant decline, and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and we expect that it will continue to do so in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • variations in our actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; 15 Table of Contents • the volatility inherent in stock prices within the emerging sector within which we conduct business; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales of substantial amounts of common stock issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. In addition, stock markets in general, and particularly The NASDAQ National Market and the “Pink Sheets,” have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology and computer software companies, particularly Internet-related companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Since becoming a publicly traded security listed on The NASDAQ National Market in September 1999, our common stock has reached a sales price high of $1,698.10 per share and a sales price low of $0.65 per share. On October 17, 2005, our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ National Market due to the failure to file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Since October 17, 2005, our common stock has been traded on the “Pink Sheets.” The last reported sale price of our shares on May 31, 2006 was $1.90 per share. We have experienced transitions in our management team, our board of directors and our independent registered public accounting firm in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We have experienced a number of transitions with respect to our board of directors, executive officers, and our independent registered public accounting firm in recent quarters, including the following: • In June 2006, Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm resigned. • In June 2006, Brian Kelly resigned from his position as President, Connectify. • In February 2006, we appointed Burr, Pilger & Mayer LLP as our new independent registered public accounting firm. • In February 2006, Alan Hubbard resigned from his position as Executive Vice President of Products and Technology. • In January 2006, Deloitte & Touche LLP notified us that they would resign as our independent registered public accounting firm upon completion of their review of our unaudited financial statements for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005. • In December 2005, William Clifford was elected to our board of directors. • In November 2005, Chuck Bay retired from the Board of Directors. • In October 2005, John F. Nemelka was elected to our board of directors. • In September 2005, Tim Angst resigned from his position as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations. • In August 2005, Michael S. Fields accepted the position of Chief Executive Officer while retaining his role as chairman of the board. • In August 2005, Mr. Bay resigned his position as Chief Executive Officer. • In July 2005, Mr. Bay began a leave of absence from his position as Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Fields was appointed acting president and chairman of the board. • In May 2005, Michael J. Shannahan and Mr. Fields were elected to our board of directors. • In April 2005, two of our independent outside directors, Mark Bertelson and Thomas Galvin, resigned from our Board of Directors and Board committees. • In November 2004, Stephanie Vinella was elected to our board of directors. • In October 2004, Thomas Doyle resigned from his position as Chief Operating Officer and President. • In July 2004, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent accountants, resigned as our independent registered public accounting firm. In September 2004, we appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as our new independent registered public accounting firm. • In May 2004, John Huyett resigned from his position as Chief Financial Officer, and in October 2004, John Thompson was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. 16 Table of Contents Such past and future transitions may continue to result in disruptions in our operations and require additional costs. Our pending patents may never be issued and, even if issued, may provide little protection. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We currently have six issued U.S. patents, four of which expire in 2018 and two of which expire in 2020, and multiple U.S. patent applications pending relating to our software. None of our technology is patented outside of the United States. It is possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • any issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; • any issued patents could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents; • current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents; and • effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which we do business. We rely upon trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our proprietary rights, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, despite the precautions that we have taken: • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technologies; • current federal laws that prohibit software copying provide only limited protection from software “pirates,” and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries; • other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks; and • policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of this unauthorized use. Also, the laws of some other countries in which we market our products may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. We may become involved in litigation over proprietary rights, which could be costly and time consuming. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Some of our competitors in the market for customer communications software may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology that they may claim our technology infringes. Such competitors could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products and technology. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents upon which our current or future products or technology infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. For example, from time to time, companies have asked us to evaluate the need for a license of patents they hold, and we cannot assure you that patent infringement claims will not be filed against us in the future. Other companies may also have pending patent applications (which are typically confidential for the first eighteen months following filing) that cover technologies we incorporate in our products. 17 Table of Contents In addition, many of our software license agreements require us to indemnify our customers from any claim or finding of intellectual property infringement. We periodically receive notices from customers regarding patent license inquiries they have received which may or may not implicate our indemnity obligations. Any litigation, brought by others, or us could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and efforts. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement might cause product shipment delays, require us to develop alternative technology or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, which might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a claim of infringement was made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be significantly harmed. We may face liability claims that could result in unexpected costs and damages to our reputation. Our licenses with customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential, and incidental damages. In addition, our license agreements generally limit the amounts recoverable for damages to the amounts paid by the licensee to us for the product or service giving rise to the damages. However, some domestic and international jurisdictions may not enforce these contractual limitations on liability. We may be subject to claims based on errors in our software or mistakes in performing our services including claims relating to damages to our customers’ internal systems. A product liability claim could divert the attention of management and key personnel, could be expensive to defend, and could result in adverse settlements and judgments. We may face higher costs and lost sales if our software contains errors. We face the possibility of higher costs as a result of the complexity of our products and the potential for undetected errors. Due to the mission critical nature of many of our products and services, errors could be particularly problematic. In the past, we have discovered software errors in some of our products after their introduction. We have only a few “beta” customers that test new features and functionality of our software before we make these features and functionalities generally available to our customers. If we are not able to detect and correct errors in our products or releases before commencing commercial shipments, we could face: • loss of or delay in revenues expected from the new product and an immediate and significant loss of market share; • loss of existing customers that upgrade to the new product and of new customers; • failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers; and • increased insurance costs. Our security could be breached, which could damage our reputation and deter customers from using our services. We must protect our computer systems and network from physical break-ins, security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Computer break-ins could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network, which could adversely affect our ability to retain or attract customers, damage our reputation and subject us to litigation. We have been in the past, and could be in the future, subject to denial of service, vandalism and other attacks on our systems by Internet hackers. Although we intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent break-ins, damage and failures, these security measures may fail. Our insurance coverage in certain circumstances may be insufficient to cover losses that may result from such events. Our international operations expose us to additional risks. A substantial proportion of our revenues are generated from sales outside North America, exposing us to additional financial and operational risks. Sales outside North America represented 30% of our total revenues for 18 Table of Contents the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 35% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. We have established offices in the United Kingdom, Japan, the Netherlands, Hong Kong and South Korea. Sales outside North America could increase as a percentage of total revenues as we attempt to expand our international operations. In addition to the additional costs and uncertainties of being subject to international laws and regulations, international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, as well as additional support personnel. To the extent our international operations grow, we will also need to, among other things, expand our international sales channel management and support organizations and develop relationships with international service providers and additional distributors and system integrators. In addition, international operations can lead to greater difficulty with collecting accounts receivable, longer sales cycles and collection periods, greater seasonal fluctuations in business activity and increases in our tax rates. Any growth in our international operations would compound these difficulties. Furthermore, products must be localized, or customized to meet the needs of local users, before they can be sold in particular foreign countries. Developing localized versions of our products for foreign markets is difficult and can take longer than expected. International laws and regulations may expose us to potential costs and litigation. Our international operations increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we cannot comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our products and services or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries may impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business. The European Union has enacted its own privacy regulations that may result in limits on the collection and use of certain user information, which, if applied to the sale of our products and services, could negatively impact our results of operations. We may suffer foreign exchange rate losses. Our international revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency. Therefore, a weakening of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could make our products less competitive in foreign markets and could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. We have not yet experienced, but may in the future experience, significant foreign currency transaction losses, especially because we generally do not engage in currency hedging. To the extent the international component of our revenues grows, our results of operations will become more sensitive to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. If we acquire companies, products, or technologies, we may face risks associated with those acquisitions. We acquired Hipbone, Inc. in early 2004, and if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may make other investments in complementary companies, products, or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. For example, since inception, the Company has recorded $2.7 billion of impairment charges for the cost of goodwill obtained from acquisitions. If we acquire another company, we will likely face risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including, among other things, difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies and services of the acquired company, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies that we may acquire, our business could be harmed. Also, acquisitions can expose us to liabilities and risks facing the company we acquire, including lawsuits or claims against the company that are unknown at the time of the acquisition. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any additional future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization expenses or charges relating to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. The role of acquisitions in our future growth may be limited, which could harm our business and strategy. Because the recent trading prices of our common stock have been significantly lower than in the past, the role of acquisitions in our growth may be substantially limited. In the past, acquisitions have been an important part of our growth strategy. To gain access to key technologies, new products and broader customer bases, we have acquired companies in exchange for shares of our common stock. If we are unable to acquire companies in exchange for our common stock, we may not have access to new customers, needed technological advances, new products, and/or enhancements to existing products. This would substantially impair our ability to respond to market opportunities. 19 Table of Contents Compliance with new regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting will result in additional costs. Our continuing preparation for and implementation of various corporate governance reforms and enhanced disclosure laws and regulations adopted in recent years requires us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We, like other public companies, are preparing for new accounting disclosures required by laws and regulations adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In particular, we will be preparing to provide, if required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, an Annual Report on our internal control over financial reporting and auditors’ attestation with respect to our report required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any unanticipated difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in material delays in compliance or significantly increase our costs. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully comply with these new laws and regulations. Any failure to timely prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws and regulations could significantly harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options could adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (‘SFAS 123R”) Share-Based Payment, to require companies to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes. This standard became effective for the Company for our quarterly and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2006. Such stock option expensing requires us to value our employee stock option grants pursuant to an option valuation formula and amortize that value against our earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. Through December 31, 2005, we have accounted for stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and have adopted the disclosure-only alternative of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. When we expense employee stock options in the future, this change in accounting treatment could materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations as the stock-based compensation expense would be charged directly against our reported earnings. For pro forma disclosure illustrating the effect such a change on our recent results of operations, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The adoption of SFAS 123R could adversely affect our ability to comply with the financial covenants of our credit facility with our bank. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, the board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of common stock. Although the ability to issue this preferred stock provides us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, it can also be used to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and equity compensation plans include provisions that may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest. Furthermore, our board of directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year. In addition, directors are only removable by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of all classes of voting stock. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of us. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Future regulation of the Internet may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services and increased costs of doing business. State, federal and foreign regulators could adopt laws and regulations that impose additional burdens on companies that conduct business online. These laws and regulations could discourage communication by e-mail or other web-based communications, particularly targeted e-mail of the type facilitated by our products, which could reduce demand for our products and services. The growth and development of the market for online services may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws or laws that may inhibit the use of Internet-based communications or the information contained in these communications. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the expansion of the Internet. A decline in the growth of the Internet, particularly as it relates to online communication, could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business, or otherwise harm our business. Any new legislation or regulations, application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could increase our costs and harm our growth. The imposition of sales and other taxes on products sold by our customers over the Internet could have a negative effect on online commerce and the demand for our products and services. The imposition of new sales or other taxes could limit the growth of Internet commerce generally and, as a result, the demand for our products and services. Federal legislation that limits the imposition of state and local taxes on Internet-related sales will expire on November 1, 2007. Congress may choose to modify this legislation or to allow it to expire, in which case state and local governments would be free to impose taxes on electronically purchased goods. We believe that most companies that sell products over the Internet do not currently collect sales or other taxes on shipments of their products into states or foreign countries where they are not physically present. However, one or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in e-commerce within their jurisdiction. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that companies that engage in e-commerce within their jurisdiction should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of their products over the Internet, even though not physically in the state or country, could indirectly reduce demand for our products. Privacy concerns relating to the Internet are increasing, which could result in legislation that negatively affects our business in reduced sales of our products. Businesses using our products capture information regarding their customers when those customers contact them on-line with customer service inquiries. Privacy concerns could cause visitors to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our software products most effectively. More importantly, even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify Web site users that the data captured after visiting certain Web sites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. If consumer privacy concerns are not adequately resolved, our business could be harmed. Government regulation that limits our customers’ use of this information could reduce the demand for our products. A number of jurisdictions have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws that restrict the use of customer information from Internet applications. The European Union has required that its member states adopt legislation that imposes restrictions on the collection and use of personal data, and that limits the transfer of personally identifiable data to countries that do not impose equivalent restrictions. In the United States, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act was enacted in October 1998. This legislation directs the Federal Trade Commission to regulate the collection of data from children on commercial websites. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission has investigated the privacy practices of businesses that collect information on the Internet. These and other privacy-related initiatives could reduce demand for some of the Internet applications with which our products operate, and could restrict the use of these products in some e-commerce applications. This could, in turn, reduce demand for these products. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 