Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business inVentiv Health is a multifaceted organization encompassing four segments, each with its own particular risks and uncertainties. A wide range of factors could materially affect our financial results and the performance of our stock price. The factors affecting our operations include the following: 10 Our revenues are dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries, third party administrators, employee benefit plans, employer groups, managing general underwriters and insurance carriers and others, and a variety of factors could cause the overall levels of those expenditures to decline. Our revenues are highly dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical industry (and, to a lesser extent, other life sciences industries) for advertising, promotional, marketing and sales, recruiting, clinical staffing, patient initiatives and compliance services. Any decline in aggregate demand for these services could negatively affect these businesses. In addition to the current recessionary environment, the following factors, among others, could cause such demand to decline. · Advertising, promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by pharmaceutical manufacturers have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by, among other things, governmental reform or private market initiatives intended to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products or by governmental, medical association or pharmaceutical industry initiatives designed to regulate the manner in which pharmaceutical manufacturers promote their products. · Consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could negatively affect certain of our business units by reducing overall outsourced expenditures, particularly in the sales, marketing and staffing areas. · Companies may elect to perform advertising, promotional, marketing, sales, compliance and other services internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, number of sales representatives employed internally in relation to demand for or the need to promote new and existing products and competition from other suppliers. · Companies may elect to perform clinical tasks internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, the number of clinical professionals employed internally in relation to the demand for or the need to develop new drug candidates, and competition from other suppliers. AWAC has not yet deeply penetrated the medical payor marketplace, particularly the third party administrator marketplace. Furthermore, any decline in aggregate demand for medical cost containment services could negatively affect AWAC's business. Consolidation among AWAC's customer base could negatively affect AWAC by reducing overall outsourced expenditures in the medical cost containment area. Furthermore, companies may elect to perform medical cost containment services internally based on industry and company-specific factors, including competition from other suppliers. Many of the contracts under which we provide services are subject to termination on short notice, which may make our revenues less predictable. We provide services to many of our most significant clients under contracts that our clients may cancel on short notice (generally 10 to 120 days, depending on the specific business unit). In addition, many of our pharmaceutical sales contracts provide our clients with the opportunity to internalize the sales forces under contract. Although we have been successful in a number of cases in negotiating longer-term commitments and a non-cancelable initial period for pharmaceutical sales contracts, we cannot be assured that clients will renew relationships beyond the expiration date of existing contracts in any of our business units. Furthermore, while we have been successful in originating new business opportunities and in replacing revenues attributable to contracts that are terminated or not renewed, our stock price may fluctuate significantly in response to announcements of contract terminations or nonrenewals. Substantial defaults by our customers on our accounts receivable could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts and unbilled receivable from customers. Certain customers, such as start-ups and undercapitalized companies in the biotechnology industry, may experience difficulties in obtaining capital given the current credit environment. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts and unbilled receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In the event of an economic or industry downturn, such downturn could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations, particularly in relation to smaller or more thinly capitalized clients. Without limitation, current recessionary economic conditions in the U.S. and disruptions in the credit market could cause a delay in collection or defaults, including as a result of declines in the creditworthiness of our customers, business failures and increased conservatism in our customers' cash management strategies. Pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers from future health care reform initiatives or from changes in the reimbursement policies of third party payers may negatively impact our business. Most of our revenues are generated from customers whose businesses are involved in the manufacture and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Sales of pharmaceutical products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Changes in government regulations or private third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for pharmaceutical products and adversely affect demand for our services, resulting in a material adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Recent legislative activity in the United States related to healthcare reform, at both the federal and state levels, raises significant uncertainties for all businesses and could have a material adverse effect on inVentiv and its customers. Congress is considering legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system by reducing the number of uninsured and underinsured individuals and making other changes. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia. While healthcare reform may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for pharmaceutical products, it may also include changes that adversely affect our clients' business, including by limiting reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, increasing rebates required from manufacturers whose drugs are covered by Medicare and Medicaid programs, facilitating the importation of lower-cost prescription drugs that are marketed outside the United States or by other means. This could adversely affect research and development and commercialization expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies which could in turn decrease the size and profitability of the business opportunities available to us in both the United States and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability or otherwise increase our costs. The pricing of certain services provided by inVentiv Patient Outcomes is potentially subject to reasonableness review under recently enacted federal stimulus legislation. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. 11 We are in the process of integrating certain acquisitions and expect to make future acquisitions, which will involve additional risks For the past several years, a significant component of our growth strategy has been the addition through acquisitions of business units. We have and will continue to seek to address the need to offer additional services through acquisitions of other companies, including the personnel such acquisitions may bring to us, although we expect to execute fewer acquisitions going forward. Operational and financial integration of our acquired businesses are not yet complete and we may experience difficulties in completing the integration processes. Among other things, we are generally required to document internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for each of our acquired business units by the end of the first fiscal year following the year in which the acquisition occurs. We may not be successful in recognizing material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting for our acquired businesses and may have difficulty remedying any such material weaknesses on a timely basis. More generally, we may experience difficulties in the integration of personnel and technologies across diverse business platforms. Acquisitions involve numerous risks in addition to integration risk, including the following: · diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; · assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare and tax regulations; · the potential loss of key customers or employees of the acquired companies; and · difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business. Acquisitions, and related acquisition earnouts, may also cause us to deplete our cash reserves and/or increase our leverage, and therefore increase the financial risk of our capital structure; assume liabilities of the acquired businesses; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; incur income statement fluctuations due to future period changes in earnouts for companies acquired after the adoption of ASC 805 updated guidance for acquisitions on January 1, 2009; or become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of new businesses are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our operational and consolidated financial condition and results of operations in a material way. Our future revenues may be affected by consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry Due to a variety of factors in the pharmaceutical industry, our clients could potentially merge with another company or be acquired. A merger may result in a consolidation of outsourced or marketing services where inVentiv services may no longer be required by the client. At the same time, a client merger may present inVentiv an opportunity to expand its relationship with the client and provide additional services. We have experienced an increased rate of medical reimbursement claims during 2009, and if the increased rate of claims is sustained or increases, our business could be adversely affected. We are largely self-insured for employee healthcare benefits other than catastrophic coverage. During 2009, we have experienced higher than anticipated costs of providing employee healthcare benefits. Specifically, we have experienced higher occurrences of individually large medical and prescription drug claims. Although we believe that employees may be incurring higher medical claims as a result of current economic conditions, we have not been able to directly determine the reason for the increased claims rate. If the increased claims rate is sustained or increases, it could materially and adversely impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on vendors providing goods and services that are critical to certain of our business units, and if such vendors were to cease providing goods and services to us for any reason, we might have difficulty replacing them. We are dependent on third party vendors for components of the services provided to customers by some of our business units. Certain of these vendors are sole source vendors or have high switching costs associated with them. If any such vendor were to fail to provide goods and services to us on a timely basis, the corresponding client services provided by our business units could be interrupted. A delay in or disruption of client services could lead to the loss of the client, the incurrence of contractual penalties, exposure to damages claims and/or an adverse impact on our reputation and accordingly could materially and adversely impact on our financial condition and results of operations. U.S. recessionary conditions have affected and are continuing to affect our business. The U.S. is in the most significant economic downturn in at least several decades. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the U.S. economy generally affect the markets in which we operate. Customers in certain of our businesses are reducing marketing expenditures, delaying decisions on new marketing initiatives and/or shifting their outsourced service activities to areas that represent lower margin business from inVentiv's perspective. The U.S. recession will likely continue to have a significant adverse impact on our clients and our business for the next several years. Recent disruptions in the credit markets may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, and may increase our financing costs. We have a $50 million working capital line under our secured credit facility that provides us with a source of liquidity beyond cash generated from operations. If one of our lenders suffers liquidity issues, we may be unable to access these anticipated sources of liquidity if and when they are required. The continuing weakness in the credit market could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional sources of financing. An impairment of our access to credit facilities when required could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our operating strategy, and could also prevent us from executing our acquisition strategy or taking advantage of other business expansion opportunities. Furthermore, to the extent the counterparties to our interest rate swap agreements suffer liquidity issues, we could be exposed to interest rate risk that is intended to be eliminated by our hedging arrangements. 12 Certain of our customer contracts contain fixed price components that are not subject to adjustment in the short term and expose us to pricing risk. Under the terms of certain of our customer agreements, we charge clients on a fixed price basis based on our cost estimates at the beginning of the contract term. Although we seek to adjust these costs as contracts are renewed, we are subject to pricing risk on fixed cost items for the duration of the contracts under which they are provided. If the costs to us of providing fixed priced items increases, we may be exposed to reduced profits, or losses, under the relevant agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Inflation may adversely affect our business operations in the future. Inflationary conditions in the economy could increase our cost base, particularly resulting in an increase in the commissions and compensation and benefits components of our cost of services and SG&A expenses. This may harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or cut costs enough to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. We may experience writedowns of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We are exposed to the risk that writedowns of our goodwill, instruments or other intangible assets could be required as a result of volatile and/or illiquid market conditions or for other reasons. Any such writedown would negatively affect our results of operations. A write-down in goodwill or other intangible assets could be necessitated if, among other things, there is a decline in the trading price of our common stock based on general market conditions or factors specific to us or the industries in which we operate. During 2008, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charge of approximately $268 million, which was primarily related to adverse economic and equity market conditions that caused a decrease in the current marketplace and related multiples and our stock price as of December 31, 2008 compared to the test performed as of June 30, 2008. The Company has performed an assessment as of June 30, 2009 and concluded that goodwill and other indefinite-life intangibles were not impaired as of that date. In addition, market volatility may complicate the valuation of certain of our securities. We recorded a $2.6 million impairment charge related to our marketable securities during 2008 as a result of fluctuation in the value of our investment in the Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio (the "CSCP"), and although we did not recognize additional writedowns of the CSCP portfolio during 2009, we may experience other securities impairments in the future. Moreover, valuations may change significantly in subsequent periods based on factors then prevailing. At the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Furthermore, given our significant amount of cash reserves, we could have further writedowns or illiquid positions if banks were to fail. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our goodwill, other intangibles and securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. We may not be successful in managing our infrastructure and resources to support continued growth. Our ability to grow also depends to a significant degree on our ability to successfully leverage our existing infrastructure to perform services for our clients, develop and successfully implement new sales channels for the services we offer and to enhance and expand the range of services that we can deliver to our customers. We have historically maintained a relatively flat management structure; as the sizes of our business units grow and the number of our acquired business units increases, the breadth and depth of the responsibilities of our senior management team has increased as well. Our growth will also depend on a number of other factors, including our ability to: · maintain the high quality of the services we provide to our customers; · increase our penetration with existing customers; · recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel; · economically train existing sales representatives and recruit new sales representatives; and · implement operational and financial systems and additional management resources to operate efficiently and effectively regardless of market conditions. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations perform billing and accounts receivable functions. Additionally, we rely on our information systems in managing our accounting and financial reporting. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and we have backup remote processing capabilities. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. In the event that critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting accurately. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or expand our operations effectively to address current or future demand and market conditions, or that we will be able to do so without incurring increased costs in order to maintain appropriate infrastructure and senior management capabilities. If we are unable to manage our infrastructure and resources effectively, our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We employ sophisticated software and databases to deliver our services, and any failure of or damage to this technology could impair our ability to conduct our business. We have invested significantly in sophisticated and specialized software and databases and have focused on the application of this technology to provide customized solutions to meet many of our clients' needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced software, end-user databases and other technology on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. In addition, our business is dependent on our computer equipment and software systems, and the temporary or permanent loss of this equipment or systems, through casualty or operating malfunction, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses that we may incur in any such event. Changes in the technology environment or our inability to update our technology to service clients could impact our financial performance. 13 Our services are subject to evolving industry standards and rapid technological changes. The markets for our services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introduction of new and enhanced services. To succeed, we must continue to enhance our existing services; introduce new services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet evolving customer requirements; integrate new services with existing services; achieve market acceptance for new services; and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. Significant changes in these regulations, or our failure to comply with them, could impose additional costs on us or otherwise negatively affect our operations. See the discussion under "Business – Government Regulation" above. We may be adversely affected by customer concentration. Our largest customer during 2009 accounted for 9% of revenues and our top 10 customers account for 55% of our revenue. If any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business and consolidated financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our key managerial and other employees are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. A significant aspect of our acquisition strategy is the retention of key employees of target companies for significant periods of time. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. Compensation for key employees and management personnel is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and there can be no assurance that we will offer a level of compensation sufficient to do so. Equity-based compensation in the form of restricted stock, and to a lesser extent, options, plays an important role in our compensation of new and existing employees. Because of limitations on the number of shares available for future grant under our equity incentive plan, we may be unable to meet the compensation requirements of our key employees and management personnel. We may incur liability in connection with litigation. We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including those related to commercial transactions, contracts, government regulation and employment matters. Certain claims, suits and complaints have been or may in the future be filed against us as described under "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 below. Litigation is inherently uncertain and we cannot assure you that we will not suffer a material, adverse effect as a consequence of any pending or future claims. Moreover, new or adverse developments in existing litigation claims or legal proceedings involving us could require us to establish or increase litigation reserves. We have been and may in the future become a party to legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings, including, among others, privacy-based actions and contract disputes. Adheris was the subject of a recently settled action asserting, among other claims, violation of the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act and has had asserted against it in the past other claims based on purported violations of privacy statutes and common law arising from its patient refill reminder programs. PRS was the subject of an indemnification claim based on a recently settled action asserting, among other claims, violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, as amended by the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005. Although it has not been the subject of litigation to date, AWAC could become the subject of medical malpractice claims based on the design and management of its service offerings. Adheris, PRS and AWAC each maintain errors and omissions insurance and other traditional business coverage. AWAC does not insure for medical malpractice since it does not deem itself to be practicing medicine. Although we believe that all of our businesses are adequately insured, certain types of claims, such as punitive damages, are not covered by insurance. We could face substantial product liability claims in the event any of the pharmaceutical or other products we have previously marketed or market now or may in the future market are alleged to cause negative reactions or adverse side effects or in the event any of these products causes injury, is alleged to be unsuitable for its intended purpose or is alleged to be otherwise defective. We rely on contractual indemnification provisions with our customers to protect us against certain product liability related claims. There is no assurance that these provisions will be fully enforceable, that the parties providing indemnification will have the financial resources to satisfy an indemnification claim or that these indemnification provisions will otherwise provide adequate protection against claims intended to be covered. We could face liability for drug samples that we distribute to physicians or for drug samples that we dispense to patients which are alleged to be adulterated or misbranded, to have been negligently dispensed, to cause negative reactions or adverse side effects or in the event any of these products causes injury, is alleged to be unsuitable for its intended purpose or is alleged to be otherwise defective. 14 We may not be able to comply with the requirements of our credit facility. We are party to an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with UBS AG, Stamford Branch and others. The outstanding balance under this facility was approximately $330 million as of the closing date under the facility, which is attributable to a $330 million secured term loan component. The agreement also provides a $50 million revolving credit facility, of which $10 million is initially available for the issuance of letters of credit, and a swingline facility. The term loan will mature on July 6, 2014, with scheduled quarterly amortization of 1% per year until the final year of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, during which 94% of the term loan is to be repaid. The revolving loans will mature July 6, 2013. Amounts advanced under the credit facility must be prepaid with a portion of our "Excess Cash Flow", as defined in the credit agreement. The credit facility contains numerous operating covenants that have the effect of reducing management's discretion in operating our businesses, including covenants limiting: · the incurrence of indebtedness; · the creation of liens on our assets; · sale-leaseback transactions; · repurchase of company shares; · acquisitions; · guarantees; · payment of dividends; and · fundamental changes and transactions with affiliates. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also includes a financial covenant under which inVentiv is required to maintain a total leverage ratio that does not exceed, as of the last day of any four consecutive fiscal quarters, 3.5 to 1.0 commencing with our 2010 fiscal year. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of the credit facility, our lenders could refuse to advance additional funds to us and/or seek to enforce remedies against us. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on inVentiv. As of the date of this report, we comply with the requirements of our credit facility. Our future financial results may not be consistent with our targets. From time to time, we communicate to the market targets relating to our revenue, earnings per share and other financial measures. These statements are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or assurances of our future performance. Any downward variance in operating results as compared to announced targets can be expected to result in a decline in our stock price. Our ability to meet any projected financial result milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on our published targets. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure" below. The inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and other activities could prevent future growth and success. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion, business acquisition plans and general operating activities could negatively affect our operations and prevent our expansion into existing and new markets. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent in part upon obtaining necessary financing at favorable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions may prevent us from doing so. 15 Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you acquire them. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: variations in operating results; the gain or loss of significant customers or suppliers; announcements relating to our acquisition of other businesses; changes in the estimates of our operating results or downward variances in operating results as compared to guidance; changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and changes in regulations that impact our service offerings; and market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and our suppliers and the economy as a whole. In addition, if the market for health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, consolidated operating results or consolidated financial condition. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, our common stock may be delisted which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards, including corporate governance standards, specified shareholders’ equity and a market price above $1.00 per share. If we were to become noncompliant with the Nasdaq Global Select Market’s continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents make any change in control more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may affect adversely the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval; our ability to issue preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock without their approval; provisions that provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including any vacancy resulting from an expansion of the board, may be filled by a vote of the directors in office at the time of the vacancy; and advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at shareholders’ meetings. 16 Our acquisition activity may dilute your equity interest and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. We have historically chosen to satisfy a significant portion of the consideration paid for acquired businesses in the form of shares of our common stock, including by reserving the right to satisfy a portion of any contingent, or "earnout", consideration, by issuing additional shares of our common stock. The potential earnout obligations under the terms of our completed acquisitions may be material individually or in the aggregate. Acquisitions we make in the future, and any earnout consideration from completed acquisitions that we satisfy through the issuance of our common stock, may significantly dilute your equity interest and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. A substantial number of our securities are eligible for future sale and this could affect the market price for our stock. The market price of our common stock could drop due to sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. As of February 18, 2010, we had 33,790,752 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, a total of approximately 17,813 shares were subject to contractual resale restrictions under acquisition agreements and will become eligible for sale over the next several years. Shares issued in future acquisitions, and shares issued in satisfaction of earnout obligations under completed acquisitions, may add substantially to the number of shares available for future sale. In addition, as of February 18, 2010, approximately 1,949,513 shares of our common stock were subject to outstanding stock options. Holders of our stock options are likely to exercise them, if ever, at a time when we otherwise could obtain a price for the sale of our securities that is higher than the exercise price per security of the options or warrants. This exercise, or the possibility of this exercise, may reduce the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 