Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business inVentiv Health is a multi-faceted organization encompassing four segments, each with its own particular risks and uncertainties. A wide range of factors could materially affect our financial results and the performance of our stock price. The factors affecting our operations include the following: Our revenues are dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries, third party administrators, employee benefit plans, employer groups, managing general underwriters and insurance carriers and others, and a variety of factors could cause the overall levels of those expenditures to decline. The revenues of our inVentiv Clinical, inVentiv Communications and inVentiv Commercial divisions are highly dependent on expenditures by companies in the pharmaceutical industry (and, to a lesser extent, other life sciences industries) for advertising, promotional, marketing and sales, recruiting, clinical staffing and support and compliance services. Any decline in aggregate demand for these services could negatively affect these businesses. · Advertising, promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by pharmaceutical manufacturers have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by, among other things, governmental reform or private market initiatives intended to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products or by governmental, medical association or pharmaceutical industry initiatives designed to regulate the manner in which pharmaceutical manufacturers promote their products. · Consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could negatively affect certain of our business units by reducing overall outsourced expenditures, particularly in the sales, marketing and staffing areas. · Companies may elect to perform advertising, promotional, marketing, sales, compliance and other services internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, number of sales representatives employed internally in relation to demand for or the need to promote new and existing products and competition from other suppliers. · Companies may elect to perform clinical tasks internally based on industry and company-specific factors such as the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, the number of clinical professionals employed internally in relation to the demand for or the need to develop new drug candidates, and competition from other suppliers. AWAC has not yet deeply penetrated the medical payor marketplace, particularly the third party administrator marketplace. Furthermore, any decline in aggregate demand for medical cost containment services could negatively affect AWAC's business. Consolidation among AWAC's customer base could negatively affect AWAC by reducing overall outsourced expenditures in the medical cost containment area. Furthermore, companies may elect to perform medical cost containment services internally based on industry and company-specific factors, including competition from other suppliers. Many of the contracts under which we provide services are subject to termination on short notice, which may make our revenues less predictable. We provide services to many of our most significant clients under contracts that our clients may cancel on short notice (generally 10 to 120 days, depending on the specific business unit). In addition, many of our pharmaceutical sales contracts provide our clients with the opportunity to internalize the sales forces under contract. Although we have been successful in a number of cases in negotiating longer-term commitments and a non-cancelable initial period for pharmaceutical sales contracts, we cannot be assured that clients will renew relationships beyond the expiration date of existing contracts in any of our business units. We cannot assure you that our most significant clients will continue to do business with us over the long term. If any of our significant clients elect to cancel, convert or not renew their contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of integrating a significant number of acquisitions and expect to make future acquisitions, which will involve additional risks For the past several years, a significant component of our growth strategy has been the addition through acquisitions of business units that are accretive to earnings. We have and will continue to seek to address the need to offer additional services through acquisitions of other companies, including the personnel such acquisitions may bring to us. The current market for acquisition targets in our industry is competitive, and we may not be successful in continuing to identify, successfully bid for and complete acquisitions necessary to achieve our operational and financial goals. Our acquisitions of Ignite, Chamberlain, Addison Whitney, Strategyx, CCA and AWAC were completed during 2007. Operational and financial integration of the acquired businesses is not yet complete and we may experience difficulties in completing the integration processes. Among other things, we are generally required to document internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for each of our acquired business units by the end of the first fiscal year following the year in which the acquisition occurs. We may not be successful in recognizing material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting for our acquired businesses and may have difficulty remedying any such material weaknesses on a timely basis. More generally, we may experience difficulties in the integration of personnel and technologies across diverse business platforms. Acquisitions involve numerous risks in addition to integration risk, including the following: · diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; · assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare and tax regulations; · the potential loss of key customers or employees of the acquired companies; and · difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business. Acquisitions, and related acquisition earnouts, may also cause us to deplete our cash reserves and/or increase our leverage, and therefore increase the financial risk of our capital structure; assume liabilities of the acquired businesses; record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; or become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of new businesses are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our operational and consolidated financial condition and results of operations in a material way. We may not be successful in managing our infrastructure and resources to support continued growth. Our ability to grow also depends to a significant degree on our ability to successfully leverage our existing infrastructure to perform services for our clients, develop and successfully implement new sales channels for the services we offer and to enhance and expand the range of services that we can deliver to our customers. We have historically maintained a relatively flat management structure; as the sizes of our business units grow and the number of our acquired business units increases, the breadth and depth of the responsibilities of our senior management team has increased as well. Our growth will also depend on a number of other factors, including our ability to: · maintain the high quality of the services we provide to our customers; · increase our penetration with existing customers; · recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel; · economically train existing sales representatives and recruit new sales representatives; and · implement operational and financial systems and additional management resources to operate efficiently and effectively regardless of market conditions. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations perform billing and accounts receivable functions. Additionally, we rely on our information systems in managing our accounting and financial reporting. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and we have backup remote processing capabilities. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. In the event that critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting accurately. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or expand our operations effectively to address current or future demand and market conditions, or that we will be able to do so without incurring increased costs in order to maintain appropriate infrastructure and senior management capabilities. If we are unable to manage our infrastructure and resources effectively, our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We employ sophisticated computer technology to deliver our services, and any failure of or damage to this technology could impair our ability to conduct our business. We have invested significantly in sophisticated and specialized computer technology and have focused on the application of this technology to provide customized solutions to meet many of our clients' needs. We have also invested significantly in sophisticated end-user databases and software that enable us to market our clients' products to targeted markets. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology and end-user databases on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. In addition, our business is dependent on our computer equipment and software systems, and the temporary or permanent loss of this equipment or systems, through casualty or operating malfunction, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses that we may incur in any such event. Changes in the technology environment or our inability to update our technology to service clients could impact our financial performance. We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. We are subject to a high degree of government regulation. Significant changes in these regulations, or our failure to comply with them, could impose additional costs on us or otherwise negatively affect our operations. See the discussion under "Business – Government Regulation" above. Our services are subject to evolving industry standards and rapid technological changes. The markets for our services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introduction of new and enhanced services. To succeed, we must continue to enhance our existing services; introduce new services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet evolving customer requirements; integrate new services with existing services; achieve market acceptance for new services; and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may be adversely affected by customer concentration. We have no customers, individually, that accounted for in excess of 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and our largest customer during such year accounted for 9% of revenues. Our top 10 customers account for 51% of our revenue. If any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business and consolidated financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Substantial defaults by our customers on our accounts receivable could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In the event of an economic or industry downturn, such downturn could have an adverse affect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our key managerial and other employees are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. A significant aspect of our acquisition strategy is the retention of key employees of target companies for significant periods of time. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. Compensation for key employees and management personnel is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and there can be no assurance that we will offer a level of compensation sufficient to do so. Equity-based compensation, including compensation in the form of options and restricted stock, plays an important role in our compensation of new and existing employees. Because of limitations on the number of shares available for future grant under our equity incentive plan, we may be unable to meet the compensation requirements of our key employees and management personnel. In addition, as a result of our adoption of SFAS 123R effective January 1, 2006, equity-based compensation is reflected in our income statement and has a negative impact on earnings. We may incur liability in connection with litigation. We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including those related to commercial transactions, contracts, government regulation and employment matters. Certain claims, suits and complaints have been or may in the future be filed against us as described under "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 below. Litigation is inherently uncertain and we cannot assure you that we will not suffer a material, adverse effect as a consequence of any pending or future claims. Moreover, new or adverse developments in existing litigation claims or legal proceedings involving the Company could require us to establish or increase litigation reserves. We have been and may in the future become a party to legal actions related to the design and management of our service offerings, including, among others, privacy-based actions and contract disputes. Adheris is the subject of a pending action asserting, among other claims, violation of the California Confidentiality of Medical Information Act and has had asserted against it in the past other claims based on purported violations of privacy statutes and common law arising from its patient refill reminder programs. Although it has not been the subject of litigation to date, AWAC could become the subject of medical malpractice claims based on the design and management of its service offerings. Adheris and AWAC each maintain errors and omissions insurance and other traditional business coverage. AWAC does not insure for medical malpractice since it does not deem itself to be practicing medicine. Although we believe that all of our businesses are adequately insured, certain types of claims, such as punitive damages, are not covered by insurance. We could face substantial product liability claims in the event any of the pharmaceutical or other products we have previously marketed or market now or may in the future market are alleged to cause negative reactions or adverse side effects or in the event any of these products causes injury, is alleged to be unsuitable for its intended purpose or is alleged to be otherwise defective. We rely on contractual indemnification provisions with our customers to protect us against certain product liability related claims. There is no assurance that these provisions will be fully enforceable or that they will provide adequate protection against claims intended to be covered. We may not be able to comply with the requirements of our credit facility. On July 6, 2007, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with UBS AG, Stamford Branch and others. The outstanding balance under this facility was approximately $330 million as of the closing date under the facility, which is attributable to a $330 million secured term loan component. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also provided for up to $20 million in additional term loans ("delayed draw term loans") to be advanced no later than January 6, 2008 which we elected to not draw. The agreement also provides a $50 million revolving credit facility, of which $10 million is initially available for the issuance of letters of credit, and a swingline facility. The term loan will mature on the seventh anniversary of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, with scheduled quarterly amortization of 1% per year during years one through six and 94% during year seven. The revolving loans will mature on the sixth anniversary of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Amounts advanced under the credit facility must be prepaid with a portion of our "Excess Cash Flow", as defined in the credit agreement. The credit facility contains numerous operating covenants that have the effect of reducing management's discretion in operating our businesses, including covenants limiting: · the incurrence of indebtedness; · the creation of liens on our assets; · sale-leaseback transactions; · acquisitions; · guarantees; · payment of dividends; and · fundamental changes and transactions with affiliates. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also includes a financial covenant under which inVentiv is required to maintain a total leverage ratio that does not exceed, as of the last day of any four consecutive fiscal quarters, 4.0 to 1.0 through December 31, 2009 and 3.5 to 1.0 thereafter. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of the credit facility, our lenders could refuse to advance additional funds to us and/or seek to enforce remedies against us. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on inVentiv. As of the date of this report, we comply with the requirements of our credit facility. Our future financial results may not be consistent with our guidance. From time to time, we communicate to the market guidance relating to our revenue, earnings per share and other financial measures. These statements are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or assurances of our future performance. Any downward variance in operating results as compared to announced guidance can be expected to result in a decline in our stock price. Our ability to meet any projected financial result milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on our published guidance. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure" above. We may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. At December 31, 2007, we had $45.3 million of marketable securities on our Balance Sheet which have been classified as restricted. We recorded $0.8 million of impairment related to our marketable securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as a result of fluctuation in the value of our investment in the Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio (the "CSCP"). The CSCP maintained a net asset value of $1 per unit until December 2007, after which the net asset value per unit fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, based on changes in market values of the securities held by the portfolio. The process of liquidating CSCP’s portfolio was initiated in December 2007 and is anticipated to continue through 2008. Future impairment charges may result until the fund is fully liquidated, depending on market conditions. We continue to have exposure to markets and products and as market conditions continue to evolve the fair value of our marketable securities could further deteriorate. In addition, recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. The inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and other activities could prevent future growth and success. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion, business acquisition plans, share repurchases and general operating activities could negatively affect our operations and prevent our expansion into existing and new markets. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent in part upon obtaining necessary financing at favorable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions may prevent us from doing so. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price at which you acquire them. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: · variations in operating results; · the gain or loss of significant customers or suppliers; · announcements relating to our acquisition of other businesses; · changes in the estimates of our operating results or downward variances in operating results as compared to guidance; · changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and our suppliers and the economy as a whole. In addition, if the market for health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, consolidated operating results or consolidated financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents make any change in control more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may affect adversely the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: · limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; · our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval; · our ability to issue preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock without their approval; · provisions that provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including any vacancy resulting from an expansion of the board, may be filled by a vote of the directors in office at the time of the vacancy; and · advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at shareholders’ meetings. Our acquisition activity may dilute your equity interest and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. We have historically chosen to satisfy a significant portion of the consideration paid for acquired businesses in the form of shares of our common stock, including by reserving the right to satisfy a portion of any contingent, or "earnout", consideration, by issuing additional shares of our common stock. The potential earnout obligations under the terms of our completed acquisitions may be material individually or in the aggregate. Acquisitions we make in the future, and any earnout consideration from completed acquisitions that we satisfy through the issuance of our common stock, may significantly dilute your equity interest and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. A substantial number of our securities are eligible for future sale and this could affect the market price for our stock. The market price of our common stock could drop due to sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. As of February 25, 2008, we had 32,421,673 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 2.1 million shares, excluding shares held in street names, were subject to contractual resale restrictions under acquisition agreements (as well as resale restrictions under Rule 144) and will become eligible for sale over the next several years. Shares issued in future acquisitions, and shares issued in satisfaction of earnout obligations under completed acquisitions, may add substantially to the number of shares available for future sale. In addition, as of February 22, 2007, approximately 2,192,521 shares of our common stock were subject to outstanding stock options. Holders of our stock options are likely to exercise them, if ever, at a time when we otherwise could obtain a price for the sale of our securities that is higher than the exercise price per security of the options or warrants. This exercise, or the possibility of this exercise, may reduce the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 