Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment patterns. Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations. The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. In 2012, a portfolio risk factor adjustment of US$225m was made to increase the collective loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage lending portfolios. The adjustment was made following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 2012 which concluded that the estimated average period of time from current status to write-off was ten months for real estate loans (previously a period of seven months was used). During 2013, this revised estimate will be incorporated into the statistical impairment allowance models. Where loans are individually assessed for impairment, management judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, and if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance. In determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, which is not restricted to the consideration of whether payments are contractually past-due but includes broader consideration of factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay. A higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset. For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determine the size 54 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customer’s business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations. Under certain specified conditions, we provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default or repossession. Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining their effects on loan impairment allowances. Forbearance activities take place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finance’s CML portfolio. The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas. Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive, though they are particularly sensitive to general economic and credit conditions in North America. For example, a 10% increase in impairment allowances on collectively assessed loans and advances in North America would have increased loan impairment allowances by US$0.5bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.7bn). It is possible that the outcomes within the next financial year could differ from the assumptions used, and this could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of loans and advances. Goodwill impairment Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in Note 2p on the Financial Statements. Note 23 on the Financial Statements lists our cash generating units (‘CGU’s) by geographical region and global business. HSBC’s total goodwill amounted to US$21bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$21bn). The review of goodwill for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: • the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but they necessarily reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment; and • the rates used to discount future expected cash flows are based on the costs of capital assigned to individual CGUs and the rates can have a significant effect on their valuation. The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond our control and are consequently subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant judgement. A decline in a CGU’s expected cash flows and/or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the CGU’s estimated recoverable amount. If this is lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our income statement for the year. The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions. In such market conditions, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and management’s best estimate of future business prospects. During 2012, no impairment of goodwill was identified (2011: nil). In addition to the annual impairment test which was performed as at 1 July 2012, management reviewed the current and expected performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2012 and determined that there was no indication of potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to them, except for the GB&M – Europe CGU, which experienced significantly reduced profitability in the second half of 2012 compared with the first half of 2012. The reduced forecast profitability resulted in a reduction in the recoverable amount of the CGU over its carrying amount (‘headroom’). Consequently, the results of the goodwill impairment testing for this CGU are more sensitive to key assumptions used. Management retested the goodwill 55 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) for this CGU and concluded that there was no impairment. Note 23 on the Financial Statements includes details of the CGUs with significant balances of goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the carrying value of goodwill to changes in key assumptions. Valuation of financial instruments Our accounting policy for determining the fair value of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on the Financial Statements. The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price for the instrument being measured in an actively traded market. In the event that the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used. The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high. However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that include one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable. Valuation techniques that rely to a greater extent on unobservable inputs require a higher level of management judgement to calculate a fair value than those based wholly on observable inputs. Valuation techniques used to calculate fair values are discussed in Note 15 on the Financial Statements. The main assumptions and estimates which management consider when applying a model with valuation techniques are: • the likelihood and expected timing of future cash flows on the instrument. These cash flows are estimated based on the terms of the instrument, and judgement may be required when the ability of the counterparty to service the instrument in accordance with the contractual terms is in doubt. Future cash flows may be sensitive to changes in market rates; • selecting an appropriate discount rate for the instrument. The determination of this rate is based on an assessment of what a market participant would regard as the appropriate spread of the rate for the instrument over the appropriate risk-free rate; and • judgement to determine what model to use to calculate fair value in areas where the choice of valuation model is particularly subjective, for example, when valuing complex derivative products. When applying a model with unobservable inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties in fair values resulting from a lack of market data inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in the market. For these instruments, the fair value measurement is less reliable. Inputs into valuations based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain because there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the level at which an arm’s length transaction would occur under normal business conditions. However, in most cases there is some market data available on which to base a determination of fair value, for example historical data, and the fair values of most financial instruments are based on some market observable inputs even when unobservable inputs are significant. The fair values of financial assets and liabilities of US$718bn (2011: US$665bn) and US$622bn (2011: US$569bn), respectively, were determined using valuation techniques which represented 60% (2011: 61%) and 83% (2011: 82%), respectively, of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology for estimating credit valuation adjustments (‘CVA’) and debit valuation adjustments (‘DVA’) has been revised as at 31 December 2012 as a result of changing market practices in response to regulatory and accounting changes, as well as general market developments. A key input into the calculation of CVA is the probability of default (‘PD’). Prior to the revision of the methodology, the PD was based on HSBC’s internal credit rating for the counterparty. The revised methodology maximises the use of PD based on market-observable data, such as credit default swap (‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not available, PDs are estimated having regard to market practice, considering relevant data including CDS indices and historical rating transition matrices. In addition, HSBC aligned its methodology for determining DVA to be consistent with that applied for CVA as at 31 December 2012. Historically, HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate in respect of own credit risk and consequently did not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. The types and amounts of adjustments made in determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value using valuation techniques, and a sensitivity analysis of fair values for financial instruments with significant unobservable inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions, are described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements. Given the uncertainty and subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at fair value, it is 56 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from the assumptions used, and this could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of financial instruments measured at fair value. Deferred tax assets Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred tax assets is described in Note 2s on the Financial Statements. The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. The most significant judgements concern the US deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses in our US operations. The net US deferred tax asset amounted to US$4.6bn or 61% (2011: US$5.2bn; 68%) of deferred tax assets recognised on the Group’s balance sheet. These judgements take into consideration the reliance placed on the use of tax planning strategies. The most significant tax planning strategy is the retention of capital in our US operations to ensure the realisation of the deferred tax assets. The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital or increase levels of taxable income. Management expects that, with this strategy, the US operations will generate sufficient future profits to support the recognition of the deferred tax assets. If HSBC Holdings were to decide not to provide this ongoing support, the full recovery of the deferred tax asset may no longer be probable and could result in a significant reduction of the deferred tax asset which would be recognised as a charge in the income statement. Provisions The accounting policy for provisions is described in Note 2w on the Financial Statements. Note 32 on the Financial Statements discloses the major categories of provisions recognised. The closing balance of provisions amounted to US$5.3bn (2011: US$3.3bn), of which US$1.7bn (2011: US$1.5bn) relates to legal proceedings and regulatory matters and US$2.4bn (2011: US$1.1bn) relates to customer remediation. Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists, and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows. Professional expert advice is taken on litigation provisions, property provisions (including onerous contracts) and similar liabilities. Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions. When cases are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise. As matters progress through various stages of development, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised and their estimated amounts, revising previous judgements and estimates as appropriate. At more advanced stages, it is typically possible to make judgements and estimates around a better defined set of possible outcomes. However, such judgements can be very difficult and the amount of any provision can be very sensitive to the assumptions used. There could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries. As a result, it is often not practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties involved. For a detailed description of the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the effect on the amount and timing of possible cash outflows on material matters, see Note 43 on the Financial Statements. Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement. The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a number of different assumptions, for example, the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint. In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition and measurement of provisions, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s estimates are based, resulting in materially different amounts of provisions recognised and outflows of economic benefits from those estimated by management for the purposes of the 2012 Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global businesses Summary 58 Products and services 60 Retail Banking and Wealth Management 62 Commercial Banking 65 Global Banking and Markets 68 Global Private Banking 72 Other 74 Reconciliation of reported to constant currency and underlying profit/(loss) before tax 75a Reconciliation of reported to underlying profit/(loss) before tax 75i Analysis by global business 76 Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 78 Summary HSBC reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. The commentaries below present global businesses followed by geographical regions (page 79). Performance is discussed in this order because certain strategic themes, business initiatives and trends affect more than one geographical region. All commentaries are on a constant currency basis (page 25) unless stated otherwise. Basis of preparation The results of global businesses are presented in accordance with the accounting policies used in the preparation of HSBC’s consolidated financial statements. Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of global business data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support services and global functions, to the extent that these can be meaningfully attributed to operational business lines. While such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they necessarily involve some subjectivity. Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding as well as inter-company and inter-business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost of being headquartered in the UK. For the purposes of the segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is included in ‘Other’. The fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn are included in the North America (US$1.5bn) and Europe (US$0.4bn) geographical regions, and in ‘Other’ for the purposes of the segmentation by global business. Profit/(loss) before tax 2012 2011 2010 US$m % US$m % US$m % Retail Banking and Wealth Management 9,575 46.4 4,270 19.6 3,839 20.2 Commercial Banking 8,535 41.3 7,947 36.3 6,090 32.0 Global Banking and Markets 8,520 41.3 7,049 32.2 9,215 48.4 Global Private Banking 1,009 4.9 944 4.3 1,054 5.5 Other73 (6,990 ) (33.9 ) 1,662 7.6 (1,161 ) (6.1 ) 20,649 100.0 21,872 100.0 19,037 100.0 Total assets74 At 31 December 2012 2011 US$m % US$m % Retail Banking and Wealth Management 536,244 19.9 540,548 21.2 Commercial Banking 363,659 13.5 334,966 13.1 Global Banking and Markets 1,942,470 72.1 1,877,627 73.5 Global Private Banking 118,440 4.4 119,839 4.7 Other 201,741 7.5 180,126 7.0 Intra-HSBC items (470,016 ) (17.4 ) (497,527 ) (19.5 ) 2,692,538 100.0 2,555,579 100.0 For footnotes, see page 120. 58 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risk-weighted assets At 31 December 2012 2011 US$bn % US$bn % Retail Banking and Wealth Management 276.6 24.6 351.2 29.0 Commercial Banking 397.0 35.3 382.9 31.7 Global Banking and Markets 403.1 35.9 423.0 35.0 Global Private Banking 21.7 1.9 22.5 1.9 Other 25.5 2.3 29.9 2.4 1,123.9 100.0 1,209.5 100.0 Selected items included in profit before tax by global business Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions75 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Retail Banking and Wealth Management 5,574 3,328 3 Commercial Banking 594 76 119 Global Banking and Markets 149 114 262 Global Private Banking 55 (9 ) – Other73 3,107 141 250 9,479 3,650 634 For footnotes, see page 120. 59 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Products and services Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM serves over 54 million personal customers. We take deposits and provide transactional banking services to enable customers to manage their day-to-day finances and save for the future. We selectively offer credit facilities to assist customers in their short or longer-term borrowing requirements; and we provide financial advisory, broking, insurance and investment services to help them to manage and protect their financial futures. We develop products designed to meet the needs of specific customer segments, which may include a range of different services and delivery channels. Typically, customer offerings include: • liability-driven services: deposits and account services; • asset-driven services: credit and lending, both secured and unsecured; and • fee-driven and other services: financial advisory, broking, life insurance manufacturing and asset management. We deliver services through four principal channels: branches, self-service terminals, telephone service centres and digital (internet and mobile). Customers can transact with the bank via a combination of these channels, through the following offerings: • HSBC Premier: we provide preferential banking services and global recognition to our mass affluent customers and their immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions. Customers can access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking and an online ‘global view’ of their Premier accounts around the world. • HSBC Advance: we provide a range of preferential products and services to simplify the banking needs of customers and to help them manage and plan their money to achieve their financial goals and ambitions. • Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial planning process designed around individual customer needs to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth through investment and wealth insurance products manufactured by Global Asset Management, Global Markets and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers. • Basic Banking: we increasingly provide globally standardised but locally delivered, reliable, easy to understand, good-value banking products and services using global product platforms and globally set service standards. Commercial Banking We segment our CMB business into Corporate, to serve both corporate and mid-market companies with more sophisticated financial needs, and Business Banking, to serve SMEs, enabling differentiated coverage of our target customers. This allows us to provide continuous support to companies as they grow both domestically and internationally, and ensures a clear focus on internationally aspirant customers. We place particular emphasis on international connectivity to meet the needs of our business customers. We aim to be recognised as the leading international trade and business bank by focusing on faster-growing markets, repositioning towards international business and enhancing collaboration across the Group. This will be underpinned by reducing complexity and operational risk and driving efficiency gains through adopting a global operating model. • Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic and cross-border financing, including overdrafts, corporate cards, term loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition and project finance. Asset finance is also offered in selected countries. • International trade and receivables finance: we provide the services and finance our clients need throughout the trade cycle including; letters of credit, collections, guarantees; receivables finance; supply chain solutions; commodity and structured finance; and risk distribution. HSBC is supporting the development of renminbi as a trade currency, with renminbi capabilities in more than 50 markets. • Payments and Cash Management: we are a leading provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, liquidity management and account services offering local, regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms designed to address the current and future needs of our clients. • Insurance and Investments: we offer business and financial protection, trade insurance, employee benefits, corporate wealth management and a variety of other commercial risk insurance products in selected countries. • GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and equity markets and advisory services. 60 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and Markets GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private investors worldwide. Managed as a global business, GB&M operates a long-term relationship management approach to build a full understanding of clients’ financial requirements. Sector-focused client service teams comprising relationship managers and product specialists develop financial solutions to meet individual client needs. With a presence in over 60 countries/territories and access to HSBC’s worldwide presence and capabilities, this business serves subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a global basis. GB&M is managed as two principal business lines: Global Markets and Global Banking. This structure allows us to focus on relationships and sectors that best fit the Group’s geographic reach and facilitate seamless delivery of our products and services to clients. In addition, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for the management of liquidity and funding. It also manages structural interest rate positions within the Global Markets limit structure. • Global Markets operations consist of treasury and capital markets services. Products include foreign exchange; currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and other derivatives; government and non-government fixed income and money market instruments; precious metals and exchange-traded futures; equity services; distribution of capital markets instruments; and securities services, including custody and clearing services and funds administration to both domestic and cross-border investors. • Global Banking offers financing, advisory and transaction services. Products include: – capital raising, advisory services, bilateral and syndicated lending, leveraged and acquisition finance, structured and project finance, lease finance and non-retail deposit taking; – international, regional and domestic payments and cash management services; and trade services for large corporate clients. Global Private Banking GPB provides investment management and trustee solutions to high net worth individuals and their families globally. We aim to meet the needs of our clients by providing excellent customer service, utilising our global reach and offering a comprehensive suite of solutions. Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group and the most suitable products from the marketplace, we work with our clients to provide solutions to grow, manage, and preserve wealth for today and for the future. • Private Banking services comprise multicurrency and fiduciary deposits, account services, and credit and specialist lending. GPB also accesses HSBC’s universal banking capabilities to offer products and services such as credit cards, internet banking, and corporate and investment banking solutions. • Investment Management comprises advisory and discretionary investment services, as well as brokerage across asset classes. This includes a complete range of investment vehicles, portfolio management, security services and alternatives. • Private Trust Solutions comprise trusts and estate planning, designed to protect wealth and preserve it for future generations through structures tailored to meet the individual needs of each client. 61 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM provides banking and wealth management services for our personal customers to help them to manage their finances and protect and build their financial futures. 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 20,298 24,101 24,166 Net fee income 7,205 8,226 8,397 Other income 6,358 1,206 1,048 Net operating income21 33,861 33,533 33,611 LICs76 (5,515 ) (9,319 ) (11,259 ) Net operating income 28,346 24,214 22,352 Total operating expenses (19,769 ) (21,202 ) (19,539 ) Operating profit 8,577 3,012 2,813 Income from associates77 998 1,258 1,026 Profit before tax 9,575 4,270 3,839 RoRWA66 3.1% 1.2% 1.1% Underlying revenue growth in all faster-growing regions Announced 34 disposals or closures since the start of 2011 and completed 12 in 2012 Best in Wealth Management in Hong Kong (The Asian Banker, March 2012) Strategic direction RBWM provides retail banking and wealth management services for personal customers in markets where we have, or can build, the scale to do so cost effectively. We focus on three strategic imperatives: • building a consistent, high standard, customer needs-driven wealth management service for retail customers drawing on our Insurance and Asset Management businesses; • leveraging global expertise to improve customer service and productivity, to provide a high standard of banking solutions and service to our customers efficiently; and • simplifying and re-shaping the RBWM portfolio of businesses globally, to focus our capital and resources on key markets. For footnotes, see page 120. The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Review of performance • RBWM reported profit before tax of US$9.6bn compared with US$4.3bn in 2011 (US$4.2bn on a constant currency basis). This included net gains resulting from a number of strategic transactions, including US$3.7bn from the disposals of the Card and Retail Services (‘CRS’) business and non-strategic branches in the US. • On an underlying basis, profit before tax increased by US$3.1bn, largely driven by lower loan impairment charges in the US run-off portfolio and higher insurance profits in Hong Kong and Brazil. These were partly offset by charges relating to the customer redress programmes in the UK of US$1.8bn, compared with US$868m in 2011 (US$875m as reported). RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m RBWM excluding US CRS andUS run-off portfolio 7,083 6,681 5,936 US CRS 3,766 2,061 1,979 US run-off portfolio (1,274 ) (4,472 ) (4,076 ) 9,575 4,270 3,839 • Loss before tax in the US run-off portfolio declined significantly, mainly due to lower loan impairment charges reflecting the decline in average lending balances. In addition, revenue benefited from lower adverse movements on the fair value of non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Finance of US$227m, compared with US$1.2bn in 2011. This was partly offset by a fall in net interest income largely driven by the continued reduction in lending balances. • Profit before tax for RBWM excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio increased by US$472m, with revenue growth in Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific partly offset by a fall in profit in the UK due to a US$883m increase in customer redress provisions and the non-recurrence of a credit of US$256m (US$264m as reported) relating to defined benefit pension obligations. • Revenue grew by 13% in Hong Kong reflecting wider deposit spreads, higher lending and deposit balances and the gains on sale of the general insurance businesses and our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. Insurance income also increased due to higher investment returns and strong sales and renewals of life insurance products. This was partly offset by the 62 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) non-recurrence of the implementation benefit from refining the PVIF asset calculation in 2011. • Revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased by 3% due to the gain on sale of our operations in Thailand, partly offset by the loss of operating revenues associated with this disposal and the discontinuation of our HSBC Premier (‘Premier’) service in Japan. Net interest income remained broadly in line with 2011. Mortgage and deposit balances grew, primarily in Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia, although the effect was offset by narrower asset and deposit spreads. • In Latin America, revenue grew by 6%, driven by higher insurance revenues from strong sales of unit-linked pension and term life products and the favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF asset (US$144m) in Brazil. In addition, we reported a gain on sale of the general insurance business in Argentina. Net interest income increased due to growth in personal loans and deposit balances. Growth was partly offset by the loss on sale of certain businesses as well as the non-recurrence of gains on the sale and leaseback of branches and the sale of HSBC Afore, both in Mexico during 2011. • In Europe, revenue remained broadly in line with 2011. Revenue decreased in the UK, largely driven by deposit spread compression. This was partly offset by higher mortgage spreads and average balances in the UK and business expansion in Turkey, which led to higher net interest income following growth in personal lending and mortgage balances. • Loan impairment charges in RBWM excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio were broadly in line with 2011. Reductions in Europe, driven by lower delinquencies across both the secured and unsecured lending portfolios, particularly in the UK, were offset by higher impairments in Brazil, where delinquency rates increased as economic growth slowed in 2012. • Operating expenses in RBWM excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio increased only modestly, despite significantly higher customer redress provisions and the non-recurrence of a pension credit in the UK. Excluding these items, expenses decreased through both our organisational effectiveness programmes and the transactions undertaken as part of our portfolio management activities, detailed below. These led to a reduction of more than 13,500 FTEs, with all regions contributing to sustainable cost savings of more than US$350m. • Share of profit from associates and joint ventures decreased by 22%, mainly from Ping An due to market valuation losses on equity securities held by their insurance business, reflecting volatile domestic equity markets. Following the disposal of our associate, Ping An, our remaining shareholding has been classified as a financial investment. Strategic imperatives Developing a high standard of wealth management for retail customers • In 2012, we accelerated the transformation of the Wealth Management business in HSBC, investing significantly in infrastructure to improve customer experience and revenue generation, although further progress is required to achieve our strategic goals. • Wealth Management revenues increased by over US$550m in 2012 to US$6.4bn, primarily due to growth from insurance, mutual funds and foreign exchange. Wealth insurance revenues improved, driven by higher investment returns, notably in Hong Kong and France and strong sales of life insurance products in Hong Kong and Brazil. Mutual funds sales grew, with revenues increasing by 17% to US$935m. Revenues from foreign exchange transactions benefited from infrastructure investments, including the successful deployment of our web-enabled foreign currency ‘Get Rate’ system across key markets in Europe and Asia towards the end of 2011. • Foreign exchange services are a core component of our wealth strategy, and we continue to invest in order to further enhance our customer offering. By 31 December 2012, over 220,000 of our customers were using our Global View and Global Transfer products, making cross-border transfers amounting to more than US$13bn in the year. We enhanced our international wire services by improving limits and pricing. We also completed the online launch of dual-currency deposits in Asian markets, and improved market access for foreign exchange trading. 63 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • Sales of our long-term fund products, including our managed solutions, continued to grow. We launched the HSBC Asia Focused Income Fund in May which grew to US$1bn by the end of 2012. World Selection and Premier Investment Management Services for retail customers continued to grow, with total net sales amounting to US$2bn during the year, resulting in a 20% increase to US$19bn in FuM related to these portfolios. • HSBC Global Asset Management’s investment performance was strong in 2012, with over 70% of its Equity, Multi-Asset and Fixed Income funds by value ranking above median. As a result, 71% of eligible funds were in the top two quartiles over the three-year period to 31 December 2012. • We made significant investments to reinforce the wealth risk management framework, introducing enhanced risk profiling and strategic financial planning tools to enable more effective control of compliance and regulatory risks. • As part of the drive to enhance customer experience, we started the global roll-out of a new Wealth Dashboard, which allows customers easy access and analysis of personal holdings and enables ongoing comparison with reference portfolios. Additionally, in a number of markets we introduced a global insurance point-of-sale system which offers customers a faster, more integrated service. Leveraging global expertise in retail banking • We continued to enhance our digital banking capabilities with the launch of the first mobile payment solution in Hong Kong enabling contactless credit card transactions through Visa payWave terminals, the first deployment of a global application platform in the US, and the roll-out of mortgage digital sales tools in the UK, India, UAE and Malaysia. • Our business re-engineering programme is driving cost reduction and efficiency improvements through standardisation. We used our global scale to improve cost controls and progressively standardised the design of our Contact Centres. In addition, we are successfully deploying enhanced analytical capabilities to improve customer experience. Portfolio management to drive superior returns • Good progress was made in portfolio management activities with 17 disposals or closures announced in 2012 and a further four in 2013, following the 13 announced in 2011, and 12 transactions completed in 2012. During 2012, we completed the sale or closure of our retail businesses in Thailand, Honduras, El Salvador and Costa Rica, disposed of the Card and Retail Services business and upstate New York branches in the US and the full service retail brokerage business in Canada and recorded an investment loss on a subsidiary. Additionally, we announced the sale of our retail banking operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay, Paraguay and Pakistan and the closure of the consumer finance business in Canada. In December 2012 we disposed of our associate, Ping An, with our remaining shareholding classified as a financial investment, and also completed the sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. Following completion of all the announced transactions we will have refocused our business to 20 home and priority markets (representing 98% of 2012 profit before tax) and a limited number of network and small markets. • We are exiting the general insurance manufacturing business and focusing on life insurance manufacturing where we have scale. In 2012, we completed the sale of our general insurance businesses in Hong Kong, Singapore, Argentina and Ireland, announced the sale of our insurance manufacturing businesses in the US and Taiwan and reached an agreement to sell a portfolio of general insurance assets and liabilities in Mexico. • In October 2012, we completed the acquisition of the onshore retail banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE, following the merger in the second quarter of our Omani operations with OIB. • We remained focused on managing the run-off of balances in our CML portfolio, with year-end lending balances, including loans held for sale, declining by 14% from December 2011 to US$43bn. In the third quarter of 2012, we reclassified US$3.7bn of non-real estate personal loan balances, net of impairment allowances, from our consumer finance portfolio to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively marketed the portfolio. We also identified real estate secured loan balances which we plan to actively market in multiple transactions over the next two years. 64 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Commercial Banking CMB offers a full range of commercial financial services and tailored solutions to more than three million customers ranging from small and medium-sized enterprises to publicly quoted companies in more than 60 countries. 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 10,361 9,931 8,487 Net fee income 4,470 4,291 3,964 Other income 1,720 1,389 1,383 Net operating income21 16,551 15,611 13,834 LICs76 (2,099 ) (1,738 ) (1,805 ) Net operating income 14,452 13,873 12,029 Total operating expenses (7,598 ) (7,221 ) (6,831 ) Operating profit/(loss) 6,854 6,652 5,198 Income from associates77 1,681 1,295 892 Profit/(loss) before tax 8,535 7,947 6,090 RoRWA66 2.2% 2.2% 2.0% Record reported profit before tax US$8.5bn 9% increase in customer deposits, driven by Payments and Cash Management Number one global trade finance bank in the world (Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012) Strategic direction CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for international businesses by building on our rich heritage, international capabilities and relationships to enable connectivity and support trade and capital flows around the world, thereby strengthening our leading position in international business and trade. We have four strategic imperatives: • focus on faster-growing markets while connecting revenue and investment flows with developed markets; • capture growth in international SMEs and corporate businesses; • enhance collaboration across all global businesses to provide our customers with access to the full range of the Group’s services; and • simplify processes and enhance risk management controls by adopting a global operating model. For footnotes, see page 120. The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Review of performance • CMB reported a record profit before tax of US$8.5bn in 2012, 7% higher than in 2011. On a constant currency basis, profit before tax increased by 10%. This included gains totalling US$468m mainly from the sale of branches in the US, the disposal of general insurance businesses in Argentina and Hong Kong and the sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd in Hong Kong. • On an underlying basis, profit before tax increased by 3%. This was driven by strong revenue growth and higher income from our associates, substantially offset by a rise in operating expenses which reflected the effect of notable cost items that included a customer redress provision of US$268m relating to interest rate protection products in the UK. Loan impairment charges also rose, driven by higher individually assessed provisions in Europe and Rest of Asia-Pacific, and a rise in collective charges in Latin America. • Revenue grew by 10% in the year, with increases in all regions. This reflected strong net interest income growth, higher net fee income and a rise in other income driven by the gains on disposals. • Net interest income increased by 8% as a result of average balance sheet growth. Customer loans and advances rose in all regions, with over half this growth coming from our faster growing regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, driven by higher trade-related lending as demand for export finance increased. In Europe, despite muted demand for credit, net interest income from lending activities also rose as a result of growth in average lending balances, notably in the UK. Net interest income from customer accounts rose as we continued to attract deposits through our Payments and Cash Management products. Net interest income from deposits also benefited from higher liability spreads in Hong Kong, reflecting an increase in short-term interest rates. • Net fee income benefited from higher transaction volumes of Payments and Cash Management products, mainly in Europe, Latin America and Hong Kong. Net fee income from Global Trade and Receivables Finance products also rose in Hong Kong, due to continued demand for export finance as we captured international trade and capital flows, and in Europe as we continued to expand our Trade and Commodity and Structured Trade Finance offerings. In addition, 65 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) our collaboration with GB&M led to higher revenues generated primarily from sales of foreign exchange products. • Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions increased by US$442m, driven by higher individually assessed loan impairments in Europe, reflecting the challenging economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey, and in Rest of Asia-Pacific in respect of a small number of customers in our Corporate segment. Collective impairment provisions also rose in Latin America, mainly in Brazil from increased delinquency in the Business Banking portfolio. • Operating expenses increased by 10%, primarily due to a US$268m customer redress provision relating to interest rate protection products in the UK (see page 32). The rise in costs also reflected the non-recurrence of a credit in 2011 of US$206m (US$212m as reported), arising from a change in the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations in the UK. In addition, we continued to invest in and strengthen our Risk and Compliance function as part of our global operating model. Operating expenses also increased in our faster-growing regions of Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific due to inflationary pressures and continued investment in front line and support staff. • Income from associates grew by 28% as our associates in mainland China benefited from a rise in lending and associated fee income, reflecting continued economic growth. Strategic imperatives Focus on faster-growing markets while connecting with developed markets • We continued to position the business for growth, maintaining our investment in our faster-growing regions, where revenues rose by 12 percentage points from 2011 and represented over 54% of our revenues. Our top 20 markets contributed over 90% of our profit before tax in 2012, with 14 of these countries located in the faster-growing regions. • Our strong network helps connect customers with both developed and developing markets as they expand internationally. During 2012, we were the first bank to settle cross-border renminbi trade across six continents with our ability to provide related services in over 50 countries offering a competitive advantage to our customers as the renminbi is positioned as a major global trade and investment currency. We have expanded our global network of dedicated China desks to cover our top markets, representing about half of the world’s GDP. These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts who support mainland Chinese businesses to identify new opportunities to expand overseas. • As reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012, we maintained our position as the world’s largest global trade finance bank with a market share of global trade finance revenue that increased from 9% in 2011 to 10% in the first half of 2012, in spite of a slowdown in world trade growth. Our Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenues increased by 11% as our network provided customers with access to over 75% of world trade flows. In addition, we continued to expand our Commodity and Structured Trade Finance offering across CMB and GB&M, establishing new teams in four countries, which brought the total to seven by the end of 2012. Our team of product specialists more than doubled from 31 at the end of 2011 to 78 across Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, with plans for further expansion in Latin America, Middle East and North Africa, North America and additional countries in Rest of Asia-Pacific by the end of 2013. • International payments volumes in Payments and Cash Management have grown at twice the rate of the market globally since 2010 with year-on-year revenue increasing by 15% in 2012. This growth reflected new mandates and investments in new products such as HSBCnet mobile to improve our customers’ experience. Double digit revenue growth was reported in the UK, Brazil and Hong Kong, all of which are top markets for CMB, reflecting the strength of the franchise in both developed and developing markets. In 2012, HSBC was the first bank to be named ‘Best Cash Management Bank’ globally for both ‘Financial Institutions’ and ‘Non-Financial Institutions’ in the same year by Euromoney’s customer survey. Also in this poll, we were named ‘Best Domestic Cash Management Provider’ in over 20 countries. Capture growth in international businesses • Our strong international network offers a distinctive presence in key markets with major trade flows, facilitating growth for international businesses. Our international customer base generated around 40% of our revenues. 66 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • In Business Banking, we continued to attract and serve an increasing number of international SMEs and further differentiated our service offering to them by extending our global network of specialist International Relationship Managers (‘IRM’s) who focus on high value international clients. During 2012, we added over 165 IRMs in France, Brazil and the UK and plan to expand the model into other key Business Banking markets in 2013. • We continued to support SMEs through the economic recovery, with a particular focus on those with international aspirations. In the first half of 2012, we launched an international SME fund in the UK to support UK businesses that trade, or aspire to trade, internationally. By the end of 2012, we had approved lending through the fund of £5.1bn (US$8.2bn), exceeding our original target of £4.0bn (US$6.5bn), and provided £12bn (US$20bn) of gross new lending to UK SMEs, including the renewal of overdraft and other lending facilities. Over 80% of small business lending applications received during the year were approved. Similarly, in the UAE, we launched our third SME fund of AED1bn (US$272m) targeted at international trade customers. • Our global expertise helped connect our customers with new market opportunities. We held three ‘Global Connections International Exchanges’ in Brazil, mainland China and Dubai in 2012, where we were joined by clients from all of our top 20 markets who were able to make contacts, share their specialist market knowledge and identify new business opportunities. Strong partnership with global businesses • Our collaboration with GB&M has delivered nearly US$0.7bn in incremental gross revenue since 2010. Gross revenues from sales of GB&M products to CMB customers which are shared across the two global businesses grew by over US$0.1bn in 2012 or by 5%, mainly driven by sales of foreign exchange products. • We continued to benefit from GB&M’s e-FX platform to deliver our standard foreign exchange products to customers more efficiently. We also addressed demand for alternative sources of finance, providing our customers with access to debt and equity capital markets and offering specialised financing, such as Project and Export Finance, via GB&M. • Dedicated executives are now in place in both CMB and GPB to promote cross-business referral activities and support the collaboration between the businesses. For example, the Global Priority Clients initiative was launched in 2012 to service the Group’s largest ultra-high net worth clients’ corporate and personal needs jointly. • In 2012, we launched our trade credit insurance offering in Hong Kong, Brazil and the UK. It will be rolled out to further markets in the first half of 2013, including Turkey, France, Singapore and Malaysia. Simplify processes and enhance risk management controls by adopting a global operating model • The successful adoption of a global model has enabled us to deliver a number of benefits, notably simplified processes for our customers, enhanced governance and compliance oversight, and sustainable cost savings across the business. • We have made significant progress in simplifying and reducing the time to complete our credit renewal process, implementing improvements in 17 key markets with further countries in scope for the first quarter of 2013. In addition, we have deployed a consistent model for cross-border account opening to facilitate the on-boarding of new international customers. • The sustainable cost savings of over US$100m achieved through process re-engineering and organisational effectiveness have been reinvested in both front line staff and our Risk and Compliance function. We introduced enhanced consistent Know Your Customer procedures, a global product governance board and dedicated resources to improve governance oversight. This investment, combined with our values-based approach to relationship management, is helping to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management in CMB while encouraging balanced and sustainable growth. 67 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and Markets GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients worldwide. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest income 6,960 7,263 7,343 Net fee income 3,329 3,227 3,664 Net trading income78 5,690 5,204 5,830 Other income 2,294 1,363 2,075 Net operating income21 18,273 17,057 18,912 LICs76 (670 ) (984 ) (990 ) Net operating income 17,603 16,073 17,922 Total operating expenses (9,907 ) (9,722 ) (9,228 ) Operating profit 7,696 6,351 8,694 Income from associates77 824 698 521 Profit before tax 8,520 7,049 9,215 RoRWA66 2.1% 1.8% 2.5% Record reported revenues from corporate and institutional debt issuance 77% of profit before tax from faster-growing regions Most Innovative Investment Bank of the Year (The Banker Investment Banking Awards 2012) Strategic direction GB&M continues to pursue its well-established ‘emerging markets-led and financing-focused’ strategy, with the objective of being a leading international wholesale bank. This strategy has evolved to include a greater emphasis on connectivity between the global businesses, across the regions and within GB&M, leveraging the Group’s extensive distribution network. We focus on four strategic imperatives: • reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions for major government, corporate and institutional clients; • continue to selectively invest in the business to support the delivery of an integrated suite of products and services; • enhance collaboration with other global businesses, particularly CMB, to appropriately service the needs of our international client base; and • focus on business re-engineering to optimise operational efficiency and reduce costs. For footnotes, see page 120. The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Review of performance • GB&M reported profit before tax of US$8.5bn, 21% higher than in 2011. On a constant currency basis, profit before tax increased by 24% despite a significant net charge relating to credit and debit derivative valuation adjustments. The rise in profit before tax was driven by strong revenue growth, notably in Rates and Credit, together with significantly lower credit risk provisions than in 2011, partly offset by higher operating expenses. GB&M is well positioned for growth in faster-growing regions with record reported revenues in Hong Kong (US$2.8bn), Rest of Asia-Pacific (US$4.0bn) and Latin America (US$1.8bn). • In the fourth quarter a net charge of US$385m was reported in net trading income as a result of a change in estimation methodology in respect of credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets of US$903m and debit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities of US$518m to reflect evolving market practices (see Note 15 on the Financial Statements). • Notwithstanding the charge noted above, revenues rose by 10%, primarily due to significantly higher trading revenues in Rates and Credit, notably in Europe, as spreads tightened and investor sentiment improved following stimuli by central banks globally. Balance Sheet Management reported higher gains on the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities, largely in the UK, while Payments and Cash Management benefited from growth in average liability balances, increased transaction volumes and new mandates. These increases were partly offset by a fall in revenues from our Equities business due to lower client activity as market volumes declined. Revenues in 2012 also included adverse fair value movements from own credit spreads on structured liabilities of US$629m compared with a favourable fair value movement of US$458m reported in 2011. • Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by US$300m compared with 2011. Credit risk provisions declined significantly, from US$515m in 2011 to US$117m in 2012, driven by lower impairment charges on Greek sovereign debt, and on available-for-sale ABSs in our legacy portfolio reflecting an improvement in underlying asset prices. This was partly offset by a US$97m increase in loan impairment charges as a result of a small number of specific impairments in 68 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and on the legacy credit loans and receivables portfolio. • Operating expenses increased by US$393m to US$9.9bn, predominantly due to a customer redress provision of US$330m relating to interest rate protection products in the UK (see page 32). Performance costs rose, albeit at a lower rate of growth than net operating income, which resulted in a lower total compensation ratio than in 2011. 2011 also included a credit of US$108m (US$111m as reported) relating to defined benefit pension obligations in the UK, which did not recur. Management view of total operating income 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Global Markets79 8,733 8,098 9,173 Credit 779 335 1,649 Rates 1,771 1,341 2,052 Foreign Exchange 3,215 3,272 2,752 Equities 679 961 755 Securities Services 1,663 1,673 1,511 Asset and Structured Finance 626 516 454 Global Banking 5,568 5,401 4,621 Financing and Equity Capital Markets 3,071 3,233 2,852 Payments and Cash Management80 1,744 1,534 1,133 Other transaction services81 753 634 636 Balance Sheet Management82 3,738 3,488 4,102 Principal Investments 125 209 319 Debit valuation adjustment 518 – – Other83 (409 ) (139 ) 697 Total operating income 18,273 17,057 18,912 Balance Sheet Management revenues included a notional tax credit on income earned from tax-exempt investments of US$116m in 2012 (2011: US$85m; 2010: US$50m), which is offset above within ‘Other.’ For footnotes, see page 120. • Included in the table above are the following amounts in relation to the change in credit valuation adjustment estimation methodology: 2012 US$m Credit (52 ) Rates (837 ) Foreign Exchange (7 ) Equities (7 ) Total (903 ) • Global Markets delivered a strong performance in an uncertain financial and economic environment, in part due to a US$444m increase in Rates revenues. This was despite significant adverse fair value movements from own credit spreads on structured liabilities as spreads tightened, compared with favourable movements reported in 2011, together with a credit valuation adjustment of US$837m in 2012. Revenues in Credit increased by US$453m due to strong trading income, mainly in Europe, as spreads tightened on corporate debt securities. Additionally, we achieved record reported revenues from primary market issuance, mainly within Credit, with revenues in Europe, Hong Kong and North America increasing as we enhanced regional coverage and actively captured growth in client demand for debt capital financing. • Foreign Exchange income was broadly in line with 2011, as higher revenues from enhanced collaboration between GB&M and CMB, and increased volumes from the improvement in our electronic pricing and distribution capabilities, offset the effect of less volatile markets in 2012. Notwithstanding the capture of higher market share within a number of our target emerging markets, Equities revenues decreased by 27%, driven by lower client activity as market volumes declined against the backdrop of economic and fiscal uncertainty in Europe and North America. This was coupled with adverse fair value movements on structured liabilities compared with favourable movements in 2011. • In Global Banking, Financing and Equity Capital Markets revenues were broadly unchanged compared with 2011 as lower advisory and underwriting fees, mainly in Europe, reflecting the challenging market environment, were partly offset by higher Project and Export Finance revenues, as deal volumes increased, and as we captured a higher market share of public and private sector investment in infrastructure development in emerging markets. Payments and Cash Management revenues increased by 15% due to higher average liability balances and an increase in transaction volumes. We increased our focus on cross-selling Payments and Cash Management products to selected international customers and saw a rise in new mandates. • In ‘Other transaction services’, revenues increased by 24% as the Global Trade and Receivables Finance business benefited from enhanced collaboration between Global Banking 69 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) relationship managers and specialist sales teams and the expansion of the Commodity and Structured Trade Finance offering leading to higher revenues in Europe and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Revenues in Rest of Asia-Pacific also increased as a result of growth in export lending and improved spreads. • Balance Sheet Management revenues rose by US$324m due to higher gains on the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities as part of structural interest rate risk management of the balance sheet, notably in Europe. Net interest income declined in Europe, however, as yield curves continued to flatten and liquidity from maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt securities was re-invested at lower prevailing rates. In addition, we placed a greater portion of our liquidity with central banks. Higher net interest income was reported in Rest of Asia-Pacific due to higher yields and portfolio growth in mainland China, and in Latin America due to lower funding costs in Brazil as interest rates declined. • Principal Investments revenue declined by US$76m compared with 2011 owing to higher impairments, mainly on three available-for-sale equity securities, two of which were in our direct investment business in run-off. This was offset in part by higher realised gains on disposals. Strategic imperatives Reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions • Our multinational coverage teams continued to expand our offerings of cross-product solutions for our clients and delivered revenue growth, particularly in faster-growing regions as we successfully executed a number of notable cross-border transactions. This included providing financing and advisory services to clients through our Project and Export Financing business, which resulted in HSBC being awarded ‘Best Project Finance House’ in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America in the Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2012. • To further strengthen client coverage and product expertise, we invested in selective recruitment in key strategic markets. In Rest of Asia-Pacific, we enhanced our advisory, debt capital markets and credit and lending businesses through a number of senior appointments in the Resources and Energy and the Financial Institutions groups. We also appointed a Co-Head of Global Banking in Brazil to drive strategic dialogue with key clients and develop our advisory business in Latin America. • We continued to develop our distinctive geographical franchise to enhance client coverage, particularly within debt capital markets. A number of successfully executed transactions, notably in emerging markets, demonstrated the benefit of partnering between regional and global product teams. These partnerships facilitated the delivery of innovative solutions and alternative funding opportunities for our clients. As a result, HSBC was awarded ‘Best Global Emerging Market Debt House’ in the Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2012. Additionally, we increased our market share of, and maintained our leading position in, emerging markets debt issuance. Enhance core product strengths and selectively develop new capabilities • We continued to develop cross-product capabilities in the growing renminbi market. Earlier in the year, we issued the first international renminbi bond outside Chinese sovereign territory. Since then, a number of significant transactions were supported by in-depth collaboration between regional teams, reinforcing HSBC’s position as the leading house for international renminbi issuance. In recognition of these achievements, HSBC was awarded ‘RMB House of the Year’ in the 2012 Asia Risk Awards, along with ‘Best for overall products/services’ and ‘Most likely RMB products/services provider’ in the 2012 Asiamoney Offshore RMB Services survey. • In Foreign Exchange, we remained focused on enhancing product offerings in our e-FX platforms for a broader client base, particularly for CMB and RBWM customers. This included the launch of our ‘Dynamic Currency Conversion’ product within our transactional Foreign Exchange business in the UK in time for the Olympics, along with a real-time online foreign currency margin trading product in Hong Kong. Our strength in foreign exchange capabilities, particularly in emerging markets, was recognised by several awards during the year including ‘Best Bank for Foreign Exchange’ in Asia-Pacific and ‘Best Bank for Emerging Asian currencies’ in the 2012 FX Week Best Banks Awards. Our innovation and achievements in the renminbi market contributed to HSBC also being awarded ‘Foreign Exchange House of the Year’ in the 2012 Structured Products Asia Awards. 70 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • As a result of recent investment in our equity execution platform and research capabilities in emerging markets, we progressed in repositioning the business for future growth and enhanced our ability to respond to client needs. We are now ranked in the top five of equities brokers in Hong Kong, while our ranking in the Asiamoney 2012 Brokers Poll for Asian Equity Research and Sales rose from fifth in 2011 to second in 2012. • In a challenging economic environment, our clients demand visibility and control of their intra-day cash positions. To facilitate this, we expanded the Global Liquidity Solutions platform within Payments and Cash Management, and it is now live in 27 countries. We were also the first foreign bank to gain approval to establish an automated, cross-border pooling structure in mainland China. The pilot scheme, which aims to centralise foreign currency management for multinational companies by connecting their onshore and offshore cash management structures, will enable our clients to manage their cash positions more efficiently. • We are actively managing our legacy credit exposures and exited from certain positions, including ABSs in the UK and certain structured credit positions and related hedges in the US during 2012. We will look to reduce the size of this portfolio further as opportunities arise, using the economic framework put in place in 2011 (see page 18). Collaborate with other global businesses to deliver incremental revenues • We have worked closely with CMB to provide their clients with appropriate GB&M products and this has delivered nearly US$0.7bn in incremental gross revenue since 2010. Gross revenues, which are shared across the two global businesses, grew by over US$0.1bn in 2012, or by 5%, mainly driven by sales of foreign exchange products. A number of appointments during the year, including a new Head of Commercial Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific in Global Banking, further strengthened collaboration efforts and enhanced our ability to meet the financing needs of our clients. • We continued to enhance collaboration across the Group through the Institutional Private Clients (‘IPC’) initiative with GPB and the Premier referrals initiative with RBWM, leading to higher revenues and increased Premier account openings respectively, compared with 2011. We also appointed a Head of Coverage in Hong Kong to strengthen our Global Banking franchise and deliver on IPC initiatives in the region. Strategic re-engineering to deliver sustainable cost savings • The successful implementation of the organisational design we announced in 2011, and our continued resource optimisation through re-engineering, delivered over US$200m of sustainable savings in 2012. 71 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Private Banking GPB serves high net worth individuals and families with complex and international needs. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest income 1,294 1,439 1,345 Net fee income 1,232 1,382 1,299 Other income 646 471 449 Net operating income21 3,172 3,292 3,093 LIC (charges)/recoveries76 (27 ) (86 ) 12 Net operating income 3,145 3,206 3,105 Total operating expenses (2,143 ) (2,266 ) (2,035 ) Operating profit 1,002 940 1,070 Income/(expense) from associates77 7 4 (16 ) Profit before tax 1,009 944 1,054 RoRWA66 4.6% 3.9% 4.1% Significant progress towards rationalising and repositioning our business Over US$70m of sustainable cost savings Outstanding Private Bank in Asia-Pacific and in the Middle East (Private Banker International Awards, 2012) Strategic direction GPB works with high net worth clients to manage and preserve their wealth while connecting them to global opportunities. We focus on three strategic imperatives: • implementing a new operating model to manage the business globally and better service client needs, with an enhanced systems platform and adherence to the highest risk and compliance standards in the industry; • intensifying collaboration within the Group, particularly with CMB, to access entrepreneur wealth creation; and • capturing growth by focusing investment on the most attractive developed and faster-growing wealth markets, where GPB can access the Group’s client franchise and its strong local and international product capabilities. For footnotes, see page 120. The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. Review of performance • Reported profit before tax of US$1.0bn was 7% higher than in 2011 on a reported basis and 8% higher on a constant currency basis. • On an underlying basis, which excludes the gain on the sale of our operations in Japan (US$67m) and associated operating results, profit before tax was broadly unchanged as lower operating expenses and decreased loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions were largely offset by reduced revenues. • Revenue declined by 3%, primarily due to lower fee income. Brokerage fees fell, reflecting a reduction in client transaction volumes due, in part, to lower volatility. Fees from assets under management and account service fees also declined as challenging market conditions in the latter half of 2011 led to a fall in average client assets in 2012, coupled with a reduction in client numbers as we repositioned our target client base. Net interest income was lower as higher yielding positions matured, opportunities for reinvestment were limited by lower prevailing yields and we selectively managed our exposures to eurozone sovereign debt. Narrower liability spreads and lower deposit balances in Switzerland and the sale of our operations in Japan also contributed to the fall in net interest income. These factors were partly offset by gains on the sale of our operations in Japan and our headquarters building in Switzerland of US$67m and US$53m, respectively. • Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions reduced by 68% as a result of the non-recurrence of charges relating to available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities and lower individually assessed and collective impairments in the UK. These factors were partly offset by lower recoveries in the US. • Operating expenses decreased by 4%, primarily due to a managed reduction in average staff numbers and lower performance costs. The decrease in staff costs was partly offset by higher customer redress provisions, costs relating to the merger of pension funds in Switzerland, and increased restructuring and other related costs. 72 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Client assets84 2012US$bn 2011US$bn At 1 January 377 390 Net new money (7 ) 13 Value change 17 (20 ) Exchange and other 11 (6 ) At 31 December 398 377 • Client assets, which include FuM and cash deposits, increased by US$21bn, driven by the inclusion of custody assets in client assets and favourable market and foreign exchange movements, partly offset by negative net new money and the disposal of our operations in Japan. Negative net new money included a small number of large client withdrawals and reflected lower inflows as we became more selective in establishing new client relationships, as well as the adoption of more stringent compliance and tax transparency standards. We also stopped marketing in certain non-strategic countries. In addition, we implemented a redefined segmentation model to reposition our client base towards higher net worth international and domestic relationships. This programme, along with a review of certain client relationships with a view to reducing control risk, resulted in a reduction of around US$4.5bn of client assets in 2012. • ‘Total client assets’, which also include some non-financial assets held in client trusts, increased from US$496bn at 31 December 2011 to US$517bn at 31 December 2012 largely due to market movements partly offset by negative net new money as noted above. • Our return on assets, defined as the percentage of our revenues to our average client assets, was unchanged as the reduction in revenues corresponded with the fall in average client assets. Strategic imperatives • 2012 was a year of transition for GPB as we repositioned our business model and target client base to focus investment in selected priority markets, enhance our compliance and risk frameworks and encourage better alignment with the other global businesses. We are targeting higher net worth international and domestic customers and have built on existing product strengths and leveraged Group capabilities to meet their needs. We expect this period of transition and implementation to continue throughout 2013. Implementing a more focused business model that better services client needs • We implemented a new target operating model based on six ‘global markets’ (North Asia; South East Asia; North America; Latin America; Europe; and Middle East, North Africa and Turkey). This enables us to operate as an integrated global business rather than a federation of private banks and to provide our clients with globally consistent products and services and improved co-ordination of marketing and servicing activity. • We sold or closed a number of non-strategic, underperforming businesses in order to rationalise our business and focus on priority markets. Disposals included our operations in Japan, our UK property advisory business, a portfolio of non-strategic clients in Monaco, our domestic trust business in Malaysia and a branch of our UK business in Ireland. • Our compliance and risk framework was strengthened by the establishment of a GPB Global Standards Committee and a revised risk appetite framework. The implementation of ongoing workstreams including tax transparency and cross-border marketing will be accelerated in 2013. • We enhanced our global front office systems with the roll out of Global Vision in Switzerland, Global Client Relationship Management in the US and Global Private Wealth Solutions in the Channel Islands, which provide integrated databases to support effective client management. We will continue to roll these systems out to other locations during 2013. Developing closer collaboration across the Group • We leveraged existing relationships across the Group in order to access wealth created by entrepreneurs who already bank with HSBC on the business side. Referral flows from other global businesses generated net new money of US$5.4bn. To further support referrals with CMB, a collaboration framework was put in place, dedicated executives appointed and referral targets agreed. • We worked with RBWM to define and promote a Group-wide wealth offering. GPB and RBWM now operate a systematic process for the review and referral of clients to ensure they receive the service most appropriate to their needs. 73 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • The Global Priority Clients initiative was launched with GB&M and CMB to service jointly the Group’s largest ultra-high net worth clients with corporate and personal needs through a dedicated single point of contact. The framework has been defined, clients identified for joint coverage and investment specialists assigned, and we have begun to roll out a new credit advisory model to fund credit transactions. Capturing growth in faster-growing and domestic markets • We continued to focus on faster-growing markets, and attracted positive net new money of US$1.9bn and US$0.5bn from clients in Asia and the Middle East, respectively. • Our product range was further developed during 2012; in particular, we made progress in strengthening our Alternatives platform, with four new real estate ‘club deals’ and two private equity launches in the year raising more than US$1.3bn. Further launches are expected in 2013. Other73 ‘Other’ contains the results of certain property transactions, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, movements in fair value of own debt, central support and functional costs with associated recoveries, HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest expense (730 ) (911 ) (998 ) Net fee income 194 34 32 Net trading expense (537 ) (355 ) (311 ) Change in credit spread on long-term debt (4,327 ) 4,161 (258 ) Other changes in fair value (1,136 ) 78 42 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value (5,463 ) 4,239 (216 ) Other income 8,868 6,138 6,153 Net operating income21 2,332 9,145 4,660 LIC recoveries76 – – 3 Net operating income 2,332 9,145 4,663 Total operating expenses (9,369 ) (7,492 ) (5,918 ) Operating profit/(loss) (7,037 ) 1,653 (1,255 ) Income from associates77 47 9 94 Profit/(loss) before tax (6,990 ) 1,662 (1,161 ) For footnotes, see page 120. The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise. 74 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Notes • The reported loss before tax of US$7.0bn in 2012 compared with reported profit before tax of US$1.7bn in 2011. On a constant currency basis, pre-tax loss increased by US$8.7bn. • These results included adverse movements of US$5.2bn on the fair value of our own debt attributable to a tightening of our own credit spreads in 2012, notably in Europe and North America, compared with favourable movements of US$3.9bn in 2011. Reported results also included a number of gains and losses on disposal (see page 27). These included a gain of US$3.0bn on the disposal of our associate, Ping An. Our remaining shareholding has been classified as a financial investment (see Note 26 on the Financial Statements). In addition, we reported a gain on disposal of US$130m from the sale of our shareholding in a property company in the Philippines. Reported profits in 2011 included accounting gains of US$181m relating to the dilution of our shareholding in Ping An, partly offset by a remeasurement loss of US$48m relating to Ping An’s consolidation of Ping An Bank (formerly known as Shenzhen Development Bank). • On an underlying basis, excluding the items noted above, the pre-tax loss increased by US$2.5bn, driven by higher operating expenses, notably the charge of US$1.9bn relating to US fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws. In addition, revenues declined due to adverse fair value movements of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract relating to Ping An. • Net fee income increased by US$166m, due in part to fees received under the transition services agreement entered into following the sale of the Card and Retail Services business in North America. • Net trading expense increased from US$353m to US$537m, driven by adverse fair value movements on the contingent forward sale contract relating to Ping An. This was partly offset by lower adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in 2012. This was driven by non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings, mainly related to cross-currency swaps used to economically hedge fixed rate long-term debt, on which there were favourable movements of US$122m in 2012 compared with adverse fair value movements of US$276m in 2011. • Gains less losses from financial investments included gains of US$314m on the sale of our non-strategic investments in four Indian banks. • Excluding the movements in the fair value of our own debt, Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value of US$248m compared with net income of US$293m in 2011. This was due to adverse fair value movements in 2012 from interest and exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging of long-term debt designated at fair value, issued principally by HSBC Holdings and its European and North American subsidiaries, compared with favourable fair value movements in 2011. • We reported a gain of US$3.0bn on the disposal of our associate, Ping An. Our remaining shareholding has been classified as a financial investment. • Other operating income decreased by 9%, due to lower intra-group recharges from centralised operational activities due to divestments and on-going cost savings, notably in North America. This was partly offset by a gain of US$130m from the sale of our shareholding in a property company in the Philippines. • Operating expenses increased by 27% to US$9.4bn, primarily due to fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn, of which US$1.5bn was attributed to and paid by HNAH and its subsidiaries and US$375m was paid by HSBC Holdings. In addition, there were inflationary pressures in certain of our Latin American and Asian markets. However, the charge relating to the UK bank levy declined as the current year charge of US$571m was partly offset by an adjustment of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy charge of US$570m as the basis of calculation was clarified. Costs related to operational activities also fell due to divestments and on-going cost savings, notably in North America. These costs are recorded in ‘Other’ and charged to global businesses through a recharge mechanism, with income reported in ‘Other operating income’. 75 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported to constant currency and underlying profit/(loss) before tax Retail Banking and Wealth Management 2012 compared with 2011 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 24,101 (702 ) 23,399 20,298 (16 ) (13 ) Net fee income 8,226 (187 ) 8,039 7,205 (12 ) (10 ) Gains on disposal of US branch network and cards business – – – 3,735 Other income27 1,206 (100 ) 1,106 2,623 117 137 Net operating income21 33,533 (989 ) 32,544 33,861 1 4 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (9,319 ) 181 (9,138 ) (5,515 ) 41 40 Net operating income 24,214 (808 ) 23,406 28,346 17 21 Operating expenses (21,202 ) 712 (20,490 ) (19,769 ) 7 4 Operating profit 3,012 (96 ) 2,916 8,577 185 194 Income from associates 1,258 25 1,283 998 (21 ) (22 ) Profit before tax 4,270 (71 ) 4,199 9,575 124 128 For footnotes, see page 120. 75a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 33,861 33,533 1 Currency translation adjustment24 (989 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (6,164 ) (6,427 ) Underlying revenue 27,697 26,117 6 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (5,515 ) (9,319 ) 41 Currency translation adjustment24 181 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 339 1,616 Underlying LICs (5,176 ) (7,522 ) 31 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (19,769 ) (21,202 ) 7 Currency translation adjustment24 712 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 873 2,429 Underlying operating expenses (18,896 ) (18,061 ) (5 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 68.2% 69.2% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 9,575 4,270 124 Currency translation adjustment24 (71 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (5,574 ) (3,328 ) Underlying profit before tax 4,001 871 359 For footnotes, see page 120. Retail Banking and Wealth Management – HSBC Finance Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 7,251 7,216 – Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (4,830 ) (5,462 ) Underlying revenue 2,421 1,754 38 Profit/(loss) before tax Reported profit/(loss) before tax 2,443 (2,405 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (3,916 ) (2,061 ) Underlying loss before tax (1,473 ) (4,466 ) (67 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 75b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Commercial Banking 2012 compared with 2011 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 9,931 (381 ) 9,550 10,361 4 8 Net fee income 4,291 (132 ) 4,159 4,470 4 7 Gains on disposal of US branch network – – – 277 Other income27 1,389 (58 ) 1,331 1,443 4 8 Net operating income21 15,611 (571 ) 15,040 16,551 6 10 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,738 ) 81 (1,657 ) (2,099 ) (21 ) (27 ) Net operating income 13,873 (490 ) 13,383 14,452 4 8 Operating expenses (7,221 ) 288 (6,933 ) (7,598 ) (5 ) (10 ) Operating profit 6,652 (202 ) 6,450 6,854 3 6 Income from associates 1,295 22 1,317 1,681 30 28 Profit before tax 7,947 (180 ) 7,767 8,535 7 10 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 16,551 15,611 6 Currency translation adjustment24 (571 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (605 ) (232 ) Underlying revenue 15,946 14,808 8 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (2,099 ) (1,738 ) (21 ) Currency translation adjustment24 81 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (1 ) 3 Underlying LICs (2,100 ) (1,654 ) (27 ) Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (7,598 ) (7,221 ) (5 ) Currency translation adjustment24 288 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 100 162 Underlying operating expenses (7,498 ) (6,771 ) (11 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 47.0% 45.7% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 8,535 7,947 7 Currency translation adjustment24 (180 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (594 ) (76 ) Underlying profit before tax 7,941 7,691 3 For footnotes, see page 120. 75c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and Markets 2012 compared with 2011 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 7,263 (197 ) 7,066 6,960 (4 ) (2 ) Net fee income 3,227 (92 ) 3,135 3,329 3 6 Net trading income 5,204 (116 ) 5,088 5,690 9 12 Other income27 1,363 (26 ) 1,337 2,294 68 72 Net operating income21 17,057 (431 ) 16,626 18,273 7 10 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (984 ) 14 (970 ) (670 ) 32 31 Net operating income 16,073 (417 ) 15,656 17,603 10 12 Operating expenses (9,722 ) 208 (9,514 ) (9,907 ) (2 ) (4 ) Operating profit 6,351 (209 ) 6,142 7,696 21 25 Income from associates 698 9 707 824 18 17 Profit before tax 7,049 (200 ) 6,849 8,520 21 24 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and constant currency management view of total operating income of Global Banking and Markets 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Global Markets79 8,098 (206 ) 7,892 8,733 8 11 Credit 335 (9 ) 326 779 133 139 Rates 1,341 (14 ) 1,327 1,771 32 33 Foreign Exchange 3,272 (77 ) 3,195 3,215 (2 ) 1 Equities 961 (36 ) 925 679 (29 ) (27 ) Securities Services 1,673 (43 ) 1,630 1,663 (1 ) 2 Asset and Structured Finance 516 (27 ) 489 626 21 28 Global Banking 5,401 (132 ) 5,269 5,568 3 6 Financing and Equity Capital Markets 3,233 (87 ) 3,146 3,071 (5 ) (2 ) Payments and Cash Management80 1,534 (19 ) 1,515 1,744 14 15 Other transaction services81 634 (26 ) 608 753 19 24 Balance Sheet Management82 3,488 (74 ) 3,414 3,738 7 9 Principal Investments 209 (8 ) 201 125 (40 ) (38 ) Debit valuation adjustment – – – 518 – – Other83 (139 ) (11 ) (150 ) (409 ) (194 ) (173 ) Total operating income 17,057 (431 ) 16,626 18,273 7 10 For footnotes, see page 120. 75d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 18,273 17,057 7 Currency translation adjustment24 (431 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (107 ) (81 ) Underlying revenue 18,166 16,545 10 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (670 ) (984 ) 32 Currency translation adjustment24 14 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying LICs (670 ) (970 ) 31 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (9,907 ) (9,722 ) (2 ) Currency translation adjustment24 208 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 21 34 Underlying operating expenses (9,886 ) (9,480 ) (4 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 54.4% 57.3% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 8,520 7,049 21 Currency translation adjustment24 (200 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (149 ) (114 ) Underlying profit before tax 8,371 6,735 24 For footnotes, see page 120. 75e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Balance sheet data significant to Global Banking and Markets Europe Hong Kong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA North America Latin America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Trading assets98 242,175 31,614 22,804 530 95,347 9,506 401,976 Derivative assets99 287,427 28,531 22,700 1,417 80,096 5,117 425,288 Trading liabilities 176,838 9,345 4,470 1,081 94,943 5,950 292,627 Derivative liabilities99 292,711 27,720 22,900 1,430 79,437 4,899 429,097 At 31 December 2011 Trading assets98 180,790 38,637 19,167 938 69,568 14,370 323,470 Derivative assets99 272,756 25,203 23,056 1,275 86,619 4,825 413,734 Trading liabilities 157,934 8,282 3,781 757 70,288 5,014 246,056 Derivative liabilities99 274,803 25,186 23,877 1,245 86,697 4,469 416,277 At 31 December 2010 Trading assets98 232,918 32,023 18,256 958 87,120 6,459 377,734 Derivative assets99 199,654 21,644 17,135 832 65,153 3,955 308,373 Trading liabilities 178,861 8,650 3,846 122 91,980 2,702 286,161 Derivative liabilities99 199,751 22,622 17,121 845 66,323 3,913 310,575 For footnotes, see page 120. 75f Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Private Banking 2012 compared with 2011 2011 as reported US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constant currency change25 % Net interest income 1,439 (12 ) 1,427 1,294 (10 ) (9 ) Net fee income 1,382 (19 ) 1,363 1,232 (11 ) (10 ) Other income27 471 (4 ) 467 646 37 38 Net operating income21 3,292 (35 ) 3,257 3,172 (4 ) (3 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (86 ) 1 (85 ) (27 ) 69 68 Net operating income 3,206 (34 ) 3,172 3,145 (2 ) (1 ) Operating expenses (2,266 ) 26 (2,240 ) (2,143 ) 5 4 Operating profit 940 (8 ) 932 1,002 7 8 Income from associates 4 – 4 7 75 75 Profit before tax 944 (8 ) 936 1,009 7 8 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 3,172 3,292 (4 ) Currency translation adjustment24 – (35 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (65 ) (28 ) Underlying revenue 3,107 3,229 (4 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (27 ) (86 ) 69 Currency translation adjustment24 1 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying LICs (27 ) (85 ) 68 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (2,143 ) (2,266 ) 5 Currency translation adjustment24 26 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 10 37 Underlying operating expenses (2,133 ) (2,203 ) 3 Underlying cost efficiency ratio 68.7% 68.2% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 1,009 944 7 Currency translation adjustment24 (8 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (55 ) 9 Underlying profit before tax 954 945 1 For footnotes, see page 120. 75g Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Other 2012 compared with 2011 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income (911 ) 35 (876 ) (730 ) 20 17 Net fee income 34 (6 ) 28 194 471 593 Own credit spread26 3,933 (35 ) 3,898 (5,215 ) Gains on disposal of Ping An – – – 3,012 Other income27 6,089 (119 ) 5,970 5,071 (17 ) (15 ) Net operating income21 9,145 (125 ) 9,020 2,332 (74 ) (74 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions – – – – Net operating income 9,145 (125 ) 9,020 2,332 (74 ) (74 ) Operating expenses (7,492 ) 122 (7,370 ) (9,369 ) (25 ) (27 ) Operating profit/(loss) 1,653 (3 ) 1,650 (7,037 ) Income from associates 9 (1 ) 8 47 422 488 Profit/(loss) before tax 1,662 (4 ) 1,658 (6,990 ) For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 2,332 9,145 (74 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (90 ) Own credit spread26 5,215 (3,933 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (3,107 ) (208 ) Underlying revenue 4,440 4,914 (10 ) Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (9,369 ) (7,492 ) (25 ) Currency translation adjustment24 122 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – 4 Underlying operating expenses (9,369 ) (7,366 ) (27 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 211.0% 149.9% Profit/(loss) before tax Reported profit/(loss) before tax (6,990 ) 1,662 Currency translation adjustment24 31 Own credit spread26 5,215 (3,933 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (3,107 ) (141 ) Underlying loss before tax (4,882 ) (2,381 ) (105 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 75h Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported to underlying profit/(loss) before tax 2011 compared with 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Management31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under-lying change25 % Net interest income 24,166 – 424 24,590 24,101 – 24,101 – (2 ) Net fee income 8,397 (2 ) 154 8,549 8,226 – 8,226 (2 ) (4 ) Other income27 1,048 (3 ) 36 1,081 1,206 (83 ) 1,123 15 4 Net operating income21 33,611 (5 ) 614 34,220 33,533 (83 ) 33,450 – (2 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (11,259 ) – (113 ) (11,372 ) (9,319 ) – (9,319 ) 17 18 Net operating income 22,352 (5 ) 501 22,848 24,214 (83 ) 24,131 8 6 Operating expenses (19,539 ) 2 (421 ) (19,958 ) (21,202 ) – (21,202 ) (9 ) (6 ) Operating profit 2,813 (3 ) 80 2,890 3,012 (83 ) 2,929 7 1 Income from associates 1,026 – 46 1,072 1,258 – 1,258 23 17 Profit before tax 3,839 (3 ) 126 3,962 4,270 (83 ) 4,187 11 6 For footnotes, see page 120. Commercial Banking31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 8,487 (1 ) 194 8,680 9,931 – 9,931 17 14 Net fee income 3,964 (37 ) 99 4,026 4,291 – 4,291 8 7 Other income27 1,383 (119 ) 19 1,283 1,389 – 1,389 1 8 Net operating income21 13,834 (157 ) 312 13,989 15,611 – 15,611 13 12 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,805 ) – (49 ) (1,854 ) (1,738 ) – (1,738 ) 4 6 Net operating income 12,029 (157 ) 263 12,135 13,873 – 13,873 15 14 Operating expenses (6,831 ) 38 (165 ) (6,958 ) (7,221 ) – (7,221 ) (6 ) (4 ) Operating profit 5,198 (119 ) 98 5,177 6,652 – 6,652 28 29 Income from associates 892 – 28 920 1,295 – 1,295 45 41 Profit before tax 6,090 (119 ) 126 6,097 7,947 – 7,947 31 30 For footnotes, see page 120. 75i Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and Markets31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under-lying change25 % Net interest income 7,343 49 176 7,568 7,263 – 7,263 (1 ) (4 ) Net fee income 3,664 (16 ) 82 3,730 3,227 – 3,227 (12 ) (13 ) Net trading income 5,830 243 179 6,252 5,204 – 5,204 (11 ) (17 ) Other income27 2,075 (718 ) 54 1,411 1,363 – 1,363 (34 ) (3 ) Net operating income21 18,912 (442 ) 491 18,961 17,057 – 17,057 (10 ) (10 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (990 ) – (41 ) (1,031 ) (984 ) – (984 ) 1 5 Net operating income 17,922 (442 ) 450 17,930 16,073 – 16,073 (10 ) (10 ) Operating expenses (9,228 ) 180 (266 ) (9,314 ) (9,722 ) – (9,722 ) (5 ) (4 ) Operating profit 8,694 (262 ) 184 8,616 6,351 – 6,351 (27 ) (26 ) Income from associates 521 – 14 535 698 – 698 34 30 Profit before tax 9,215 (262 ) 198 9,151 7,049 – 7,049 (24 ) (23 ) For footnotes, see page 120. Global Private Banking31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 1,345 – 13 1,358 1,439 – 1,439 7 6 Net fee income 1,299 – 15 1,314 1,382 – 1,382 6 5 Other income27 449 – 2 451 471 – 471 5 4 Net operating income21 3,093 – 30 3,123 3,292 – 3,292 6 5 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions 12 – (1 ) 11 (86 ) – (86 ) Net operating income 3,105 – 29 3,134 3,206 – 3,206 3 2 Operating expenses (2,035 ) – (23 ) (2,058 ) (2,266 ) – (2,266 ) (11 ) (10 ) Operating profit 1,070 – 6 1,076 940 – 940 (12 ) (13 ) Income from associates (16 ) – – (16 ) 4 – 4 Profit before tax 1,054 – 6 1,060 944 – 944 (10 ) (11 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 75j Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Other31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under-lying change25 % Net interest expense (998 ) – (41 ) (1,039 ) (911 ) – (911 ) 9 12 Net fee income 31 – (1 ) 30 34 – 34 10 13 Changes in fair value26 (63 ) 63 – – 3,933 (3,933 ) – Other income27 5,690 (250 ) 65 5,505 6,089 (208 ) 5,881 7 7 Net operating income21 4,660 (187 ) 23 4,496 9,145 (4,141 ) 5,004 96 11 Loan impairment recoveries and other credit risk provisions 3 – (2 ) 1 – – – Net operating income 4,663 (187 ) 21 4,497 9,145 (4,141 ) 5,004 96 11 Operating expenses (5,918 ) – (24 ) (5,942 ) (7,492 ) – (7,492 ) (27 ) (26 ) Operating profit/(loss) (1,255 ) (187 ) (3 ) (1,445 ) 1,653 (4,141 ) (2,488 ) (72 ) Income from associates 94 – 6 100 9 48 57 (90 ) (43 ) Profit/(loss) before tax (1,161 ) (187 ) 3 (1,345 ) 1,662 (4,093 ) (2,431 ) (81 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 75k Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Analysis by global business HSBC profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 2012 RetailBankingand WealthManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$m GlobalPrivateBankingUS$m Other73 US$m Inter–segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit before tax Net interest income/(expense) 20,298 10,361 6,960 1,294 (730 ) (511 ) 37,672 Net fee income 7,205 4,470 3,329 1,232 194 – 16,430 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 276 617 3,588 476 (549 ) – 4,408 Net interest income on trading activities 28 16 2,102 14 12 511 2,683 Net trading income/(expense)78 304 633 5,690 490 (537 ) 511 7,091 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (4,327 ) – (4,327 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 1,893 250 1,094 – (1,136 ) – 2,101 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 1,893 250 1,094 – (5,463 ) – (2,226 ) Gains less losses from financial investments 96 22 730 (3 ) 344 – 1,189 Dividend income 24 18 148 6 25 – 221 Net earned insurance premiums 11,191 1,786 25 42 – – 13,044 Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An 3,735 277 – – 3,012 – 7,024 Other operating income 1,472 536 313 151 5,487 (5,859 ) 2,100 Total operating income 46,218 18,353 18,289 3,212 2,332 (5,859 ) 82,545 Net insurance claims86 (12,357 ) (1,802 ) (16 ) (40 ) – – (14,215 ) Net operating income21 33,861 16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332 (5,859 ) 68,330 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (5,515 ) (2,099 ) (670 ) (27 ) – – (8,311 ) Net operating income 28,346 14,452 17,603 3,145 2,332 (5,859 ) 60,019 Employee expenses87 (5,532 ) (2,247 ) (3,764 ) (915 ) (8,033 ) – (20,491 ) Other operating expenses (14,237 ) (5,351 ) (6,143 ) (1,228 ) (1,336 ) 5,859 (22,436 ) Total operating expenses (19,769 ) (7,598 ) (9,907 ) (2,143 ) (9,369 ) 5,859 (42,927 ) Operating profit/(loss) 8,577 6,854 7,696 1,002 (7,037 ) – 17,092 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 998 1,681 824 7 47 – 3,557 Profit/(loss) before tax 9,575 8,535 8,520 1,009 (6,990 ) – 20,649 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 46.4 41.3 41.3 4.9 (33.9 ) 100.0 Cost efficiency ratio 58.4 45.9 54.2 67.6 – 62.8 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 378,040 288,033 283,842 45,213 2,495 997,623 Total assets 536,244 363,659 1,942,470 118,440 201,741 (470,016 ) 2,692,538 Customer accounts 562,151 338,405 332,115 105,772 1,571 1,340,014 76 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 RetailBankingand WealthManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m Global BankingandMarketsUS$m GlobalPrivateBankingUS$m Other73 US$m Inter–segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit before tax Net interest income/(expense) 24,101 9,931 7,263 1,439 (911 ) (1,161 ) 40,662 Net fee income 8,226 4,291 3,227 1,382 34 – 17,160 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (562 ) 565 3,306 415 (441 ) – 3,283 Net interest income on trading activities 43 19 1,898 16 86 1,161 3,223 Net trading income/(expense)78 (519 ) 584 5,204 431 (355 ) 1,161 6,506 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – 4,161 – 4,161 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value (761 ) 33 (72 ) – 78 – (722 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value (761 ) 33 (72 ) – 4,239 – 3,439 Gains less losses from financial investments 124 20 761 3 (1 ) – 907 Dividend income 27 15 75 7 25 – 149 Net earned insurance premiums 10,882 1,956 47 – (13 ) – 12,872 Other operating income 907 483 577 30 6,127 (6,358 ) 1,766 Total operating income 42,987 17,313 17,082 3,292 9,145 (6,358 ) 83,461 Net insurance claims86 (9,454 ) (1,702 ) (25 ) – – – (11,181 ) Net operating income21 33,533 15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145 (6,358 ) 72,280 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (9,319 ) (1,738 ) (984 ) (86 ) – – (12,127 ) Net operating income 24,214 13,873 16,073 3,206 9,145 (6,358 ) 60,153 Employee expenses87 (6,538 ) (2,184 ) (4,196 ) (1,351 ) (6,897 ) – (21,166 ) Other operating expenses (14,664 ) (5,037 ) (5,526 ) (915 ) (595 ) 6,358 (20,379 ) Total operating expenses (21,202 ) (7,221 ) (9,722 ) (2,266 ) (7,492 ) 6,358 (41,545 ) Operating profit 3,012 6,652 6,351 940 1,653 – 18,608 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 1,258 1,295 698 4 9 – 3,264 Profit before tax 4,270 7,947 7,049 944 1,662 – 21,872 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 19.6 36.3 32.2 4.3 7.6 100.0 Cost efficiency ratio 63.2 46.3 57.0 68.8 81.9 57.5 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 357,907 262,039 276,463 41,856 2,164 940,429 Total assets 540,548 334,966 1,877,627 119,839 180,126 (497,527 ) 2,555,579 Customer accounts 529,017 306,174 306,454 111,814 466 1,253,925 For footnotes, see page 120. 77 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued) 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Manage- ment US$m Commercial BankingUS$m Global Banking and Markets US$m GlobalPrivateBankingUS$m Other73 US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 24,166 8,487 7,343 1,345 (998 ) (902 ) 39,441 Net fee income 8,397 3,964 3,664 1,299 31 – 17,355 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (106 ) 427 4,326 391 (358 ) – 4,680 Net interest income on trading activities 28 28 1,504 21 47 902 2,530 Net trading income/(expense)78 (78 ) 455 5,830 412 (311 ) 902 7,210 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (258 ) – (258 ) Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 1,210 190 36 – 42 – 1,478 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 1,210 190 36 – (216 ) – 1,220 Gains less losses from financial investments (24 ) (1 ) 863 (6 ) 136 – 968 Dividend income 27 12 48 5 20 – 112 Net earned insurance premiums 9,737 1,379 41 – (11 ) – 11,146 Other operating income 684 585 1,113 38 6,005 (5,863 ) 2,562 Total operating income 44,119 15,071 18,938 3,093 4,656 (5,863 ) 80,014 Net insurance claims86 (10,508 ) (1,237 ) (26 ) – 4 – (11,767 ) Net operating income21 33,611 13,834 18,912 3,093 4,660 (5,863 ) 68,247 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (11,259 ) (1,805 ) (990 ) 12 3 – (14,039 ) Net operating income 22,352 12,029 17,922 3,105 4,663 (5,863 ) 54,208 Employee expenses87 (5,770 ) (2,153 ) (4,353 ) (1,237 ) (6,323 ) – (19,836 ) Other operating expenses (13,769 ) (4,678 ) (4,875 ) (798 ) 405 5,863 (17,852 ) Total operating expenses (19,539 ) (6,831 ) (9,228 ) (2,035 ) (5,918 ) 5,863 (37,688 ) Operating profit/(loss) 2,813 5,198 8,694 1,070 (1,255 ) – 16,520 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 1,026 892 521 (16 ) 94 – 2,517 Profit/(loss) before tax 3,839 6,090 9,215 1,054 (1,161 ) – 19,037 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 20.2 32.0 48.4 5.5 (6.1 ) 100.0 Cost efficiency ratio 58.1 49.4 48.8 65.8 127.0 55.2 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 390,963 239,286 284,497 40,665 2,955 958,366 Total assets 530,970 296,797 1,755,043 116,846 161,458 (406,425 ) 2,454,689 Customer accounts 525,221 286,007 308,416 107,130 951 1,227,725 For footnotes, see page 120. 77a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios In implementing our strategy, we have sold or agreed to sell a number of businesses and investments across the Group. We expect these disposals to have a significant effect on both the revenue and the profitability of the global businesses in the future. In addition, significant portfolios are being run down. We expect the losses on these portfolios to continue to affect the global businesses in the future. The table below presents the contribution of these businesses and investments to the historical results of global businesses. We do not expect the historical results to be indicative of future results because of disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs, included in total operating costs, will not necessarily be removed upon disposal and have been separately identified on page 53. Summary income statements for disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios69,70 2012 RetailBankingand Wealth Management US$m Commercial BankingUS$m Global Bankingand Markets US$m GlobalPrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Net interest income/(expense) 4,281 133 35 8 (2 ) Net fee income 380 – 1 8 – Net trading income/(expense)78 (204 ) 4 160 – 2 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 6 2 10 – (785 ) Gains less losses from financial investments 32 1 (70 ) – – Dividend income 3 – – – – Net earned insurance premiums 518 203 25 – (1 ) Other operating income/(expense) 40 20 (3 ) (1 ) – Total operating income/(expense) 5,056 363 158 15 (786 ) Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (297 ) (129 ) (17 ) – – Net operating income/(expense)21 4,759 234 141 15 (786 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (2,980 ) (4 ) (168 ) – – Net operating income/(expense) 1,779 230 (27 ) 15 (786 ) Total operating expenses (2,376 ) (164 ) (165 ) (24 ) (18 ) Operating profit/(loss) (597 ) 66 (192 ) (9 ) (804 ) Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 633 89 64 – – Profit/(loss) before tax 36 155 (128 ) (9 ) (804 ) By geographical region Europe 2 – (283 ) (1 ) – Hong Kong 27 13 6 – – Rest of Asia-Pacific 612 91 57 (8 ) – Middle East and North Africa 10 – 36 – – North America (656 ) 9 2 – (785 ) Latin America 41 42 54 – (19 ) Profit/(loss) before tax 36 155 (128 ) (9 ) (804 ) Gain on sale 4,074 476 22 64 3,103 For footnotes, see page 120. 78 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Geographical regions Summary 79 Europe 81 Hong Kong 88 Rest of Asia-Pacific 93 Middle East and North Africa 99 North America 104 Latin America 111 Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 117 Summary Additional information on results in 2012 may be found in the ‘Financial Summary’ on pages 25 to 54. In the analysis of profit by geographical regions that follows, operating income and operating expenses include intra-HSBC items of US$3,358m (2011: US$3,421m; 2010: US$3,125m). Profit/(loss) before tax 2012 2011 2010 US$m % US$m % US$m % Europe (3,414 ) (16.5 ) 4,671 21.3 4,302 22.6 Hong Kong 7,582 36.7 5,823 26.6 5,692 29.9 Rest of Asia-Pacific 10,448 50.6 7,471 34.2 5,902 31.0 Middle East and North Africa 1,350 6.5 1,492 6.8 892 4.7 North America 2,299 11.1 100 0.5 454 2.4 Latin America 2,384 11.6 2,315 10.6 1,795 9.4 20,649 100.0 21,872 100.0 19,037 100.0 Total assets74 At 31 December 2012 2011 US$m % US$m % Europe 1,389,240 51.6 1,281,945 50.3 Hong Kong 518,334 19.3 473,024 18.5 Rest of Asia-Pacific 342,269 12.7 317,816 12.4 Middle East and North Africa 62,605 2.3 57,464 2.2 North America 490,247 18.2 504,302 19.7 Latin America 131,277 4.9 144,889 5.7 Intra-HSBC items (241,434 ) (9.0 ) (223,861 ) (8.8 ) 2,692,538 100.0 2,555,579 100.0 Risk-weighted assets88 At 31 December 2012 2011 US$bn % US$bn % Total 1,123.9 1,209.5 Europe 314.7 27.6 340.2 27.8 Hong Kong 111.9 9.8 105.7 8.6 Rest of Asia-Pacific 302.2 26.4 279.3 22.8 Middle East and North Africa 62.2 5.4 58.9 4.8 North America 253.0 22.2 337.3 27.6 Latin America 97.9 8.6 102.3 8.4 For footnotes, see page 120. 79 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Selected items included in profit before tax by geographical region Fair value movements arising from changes in own credit spreads26 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Europe (4,110 ) 2,947 (198 ) Hong Kong – – (6 ) Rest of Asia-Pacific (3 ) 2 (1 ) Middle East and North Africa (12 ) 14 – North America (1,090 ) 970 142 (5,215 ) 3,933 (63 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions75 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Europe (3 ) – 286 Hong Kong 420 82 136 Rest of Asia-Pacific 4,048 1,141 188 Middle East and North Africa (18 ) 54 (42 ) North America 4,888 2,192 66 Latin America 144 181 – 9,479 3,650 634 For footnotes, see page 120. 80 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Europe Our principal banking operations in Europe are HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France, HSBC Bank A.S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c., HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA and HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Through these subsidiaries we provide a wide range of banking, treasury and financial services to personal, commercial and corporate customers across Europe. 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Net interest income 10,394 11,001 11,250 Net fee income 6,169 6,236 6,371 Net trading income 2,707 2,161 2,863 Other income/(expense) (1,662 ) 4,848 2,266 Net operating income21 17,608 24,246 22,750 LICs76 (1,921 ) (2,512 ) (3,020 ) Net operating income 15,687 21,734 19,730 Total operating expenses (19,095 ) (17,069 ) (15,445 ) Operating profit/(loss) (3,408 ) 4,665 4,285 Income/(expense) from associates77 (6 ) 6 17 Profit/(loss) before tax (3,414 ) 4,671 4,302 Cost efficiency ratio 108.4% 70.4% 67.9% RoRWA66 (1.0% ) 1.5% 1.3% Year-end staff numbers 70,061 74,892 75,698 Strong Rates and Credit performance as investor sentiment improved 40% reduction in RBWM loan impairment charges US$2.3bn of customer redress provisions in the UK For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background The UK economy remained weak in 2012, with little growth in underlying activity. Preliminary data showed that the level of real Gross Domestic Product (‘GDP’) contracted by 0.3% in the fourth quarter, as economic activity fell back after a boost related to the Olympic Games. Despite the lacklustre economy, the labour market remained fairly resilient, with the unemployment rate in the three months to December down to 7.8% from 8.4% in the same period in 2011. In response to the stagnating economy, the Bank of England (‘BoE’) increased the size of its Asset Purchase Facility to £375bn (US$606bn) and launched a new scheme, Funding for Lending, aimed at increasing the supply of credit. Consumer Prices Index (‘CPI’) inflation fell during the first half of the year but remained above the BoE’s 2% target. In the fourth quarter, it rose back to 2.7%, partly due to increases in tuition fees and energy prices. The eurozone returned to recession in 2012 as the initial resilience in France and Germany was more than offset by deepening contractions in the periphery, where domestic demand was dragged down by austerity and private sector deleveraging. Inflation slowed from 2.7% at the end of 2011 to 2.2% in 2012 and the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) cut the refinance (‘refi’) rate by 0.25% to 0.75% in July. The sovereign crisis worsened again in the first half of 2012 but early signs of a roadmap for future integration of the economic and monetary union, additional support for Greece and, most importantly, the ECB’s commitment to supporting the euro through its Outright Monetary Transactions bond-buying programme succeeded in lowering peripheral government bond spreads to their lowest level since March 2012. Review of performance Our operations in Europe reported a pre-tax loss of US$3.4bn, compared with a profit of US$4.7bn in 2011. On a constant currency basis, pre-tax profits declined by US$8.0bn. In 2012, there were adverse movements of US$4.1bn on our own debt designated at fair value, resulting from changes in credit spreads, compared with favourable movements of US$2.9bn in 2011. On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits decreased by US$930m due to higher operating expenses reflecting a US$1.4bn increase in the provision for customer redress programmes in the UK, in particular relating to the possible mis-selling of PPI and interest rate protection products. This was partly offset by higher GB&M revenues, notably in the Rates and Credit businesses as spreads on eurozone 81 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses RetailBankingand Wealth Management US$m CommercialBankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m GlobalPrivateBankingUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 UK 343 832 (111 ) 235 (6,355 ) (5,056 ) France60 135 203 514 (11 ) (263 ) 578 Germany 29 64 283 40 (72 ) 344 Malta 39 52 31 – – 122 Switzerland – 2 1 133 – 136 Turkey (32 ) 71 104 – 1 144 Other (5 ) (16 ) 164 102 73 318 509 1,208 986 499 (6,616 ) (3,414 ) 2011 UK 1,330 1,227 (265 ) 192 1,037 3,521 France60 69 192 (194 ) 16 18 101 Germany 36 69 203 28 16 352 Malta 31 72 21 – – 124 Switzerland – (8 ) – 225 – 217 Turkey 7 62 87 2 – 158 Other (151 ) 73 225 94 (43 ) 198 1,322 1,687 77 557 1,028 4,671 2010 UK 1,181 827 1,772 223 (1,605 ) 2,398 France60 138 135 376 18 26 693 Germany 36 32 231 30 4 333 Malta 37 56 17 – – 110 Switzerland – (5 ) – 265 – 260 Turkey 64 80 105 1 – 250 Other (144 ) 80 202 103 17 258 1,312 1,205 2,703 640 (1,558 ) 4,302 For footnote, see page 120. bonds tightened and investor sentiment improved. In addition, impairment charges fell due to lower credit risk provisions in GB&M, notably in the legacy credit portfolio, and improved delinquency rates in RBWM in the UK as we continued to improve the quality of these portfolios with a higher proportion of secured lending. We made significant progress in reshaping our business in Europe. The disposal of non-core businesses simplified our European portfolio, allowing us to concentrate resources on businesses where we can deliver sustainable profits and growth while managing risks effectively. We exited from Hungary, Georgia, Slovakia, and RBWM in Russia and Poland, and sold Property Vision in the UK, our insurance and reinsurance businesses in Ireland and the retail equities brokerage in Greece. During 2012, we made progress with our restructuring programme to align our businesses in each country to their respective global business operating models in order to reduce complexity and lower our costs in a sustainable way. Total restructuring costs (including impairment of assets) of US$299m were incurred across Europe as a result of organisational effectiveness and other initiatives, which delivered sustainable cost savings of approximately US$770m. In RBWM, we continued to drive strong growth in mortgage lending in the UK through the success of our competitive offerings and marketing campaigns. Our share of new UK mortgage lending in 2012 was 12%, up from the 10% share of new lending in 2011, while maintaining a loan-to-value ratio of 58%. We have approved new mortgage lending of £19bn (US$32bn) during 2012, compared with our original lending commitment of £15bn (US$24bn), with £5bn (US$8bn) approved for first time buyers. Wealth Management revenue was marginally lower during the year reflecting the challenging economic environment. Our Wealth Management products and services were redesigned in accordance with the FSA’s Retail Distribution Review, which was introduced on 1 January 2013, and we continue to offer a competitive fee-based financial advice service to Premier customers. The expansion of the RBWM business continued in 82 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Turkey, where we are targeting mass affluent customers. In CMB, we continued to invest in the UK, and have increased the number of International Relationship Managers to over 200 during the year. In the first half of 2012, we launched an International SME fund in the UK to support UK businesses that trade, or aspire to trade, internationally. By the end of 2012, we had approved lending through the fund of £5.1bn (US$8.2bn), exceeding the original target of £4.0bn (US$6.5bn), and provided £12bn (US$20bn) of gross new lending to UK SMEs, including the renewal of overdraft and other lending facilities. Over 80% of small business lending applications received during the year were approved. Revenue from international customers increased and our focus on this client base, together with targeted growth initiatives such as deposit acquisition and regional pricing strategies, led to a rise in Payments and Cash Management and Global Trade and Receivable Finance income. Revenues from CMB’s collaboration with GB&M increased primarily from sales of foreign exchange products. During the year, we made a provision for the possible mis-selling of interest rate protection products and the sale of these products to customers in our Business Banking segment, which serves SMEs, was withdrawn. GB&M continued to develop cross-product capabilities in the growing renminbi market. Early in the year, we issued the first international renminbi bond outside sovereign Chinese territory. Since then, a number of significant transactions were supported by in-depth collaboration between European and other regional teams which reinforced our position as the leading house for international renminbi issuance. In Foreign Exchange, the focus remained on enhancing product offerings in our e-FX platforms for a broader client base, particularly to RBWM and CMB customers. This included the launch of a ‘Dynamic Currency Conversion’ product within the transactional Foreign Exchange business. To enhance coverage efforts in Global Banking, the Corporate Finance Group was established to strengthen the financial advisory and event financing business. Payments and Cash Management won a number of mandates and implemented the Global Liquidity Solutions platform to provide advanced liquidity management functionality for its clients. In addition, our legacy credit exposure was reduced in Europe by exiting from certain positions and the business will reduce the size of this portfolio further as opportunities arise. In GPB, we revised our medium-term strategic plan to focus the business on investing in priority markets with a redefined client offering that builds on product strengths and leverages Group capabilities. We concentrated on higher net worth international and domestic customers, enhancing our compliance and risk framework and improving alignment with the other global businesses. Our activities are likely to be affected by proposed legislation in the UK arising from the recommendations of the UK Independent Commission on Banking (‘ICB’) to ring-fence the retail bank from wholesale operations and to require the retail bank to have a greater primary loss absorbing capacity. Proposed changes in regulations are likely to affect how we conduct activities, with the potential to curtail the types of business we carry out and increase the costs of doing business. The implementation of any proposed changes will take a considerable amount of time and involve significant cost (see page 132). The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income decreased by 3%. Balance Sheet Management revenues declined, principally in the UK, as yield curves continued to flatten and liquidity arising from maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt securities was re-invested at lower prevailing rates. In addition we placed a greater portion of our liquidity with central banks. GPB was similarly affected as higher yielding positions matured and as we managed selectively our exposures to eurozone sovereign debt. Legacy credit revenues in the UK also fell as a result of higher interest expense on structured debt issued at the end of 2011, coupled with lower effective yields on assets. RBWM net interest income declined mainly in the UK due to lower deposit spreads reflecting strong competition in the low interest rate environment. This was partly offset by strong growth in average residential mortgage balances and improved lending spreads in the UK, along with higher personal lending and cards balances in Turkey as the business expanded. In addition, net interest income in CMB benefited from higher average customer account balances as we continued to attract deposits through our Payments and Cash Management products as a result of competitive pricing, while average lending balances also rose, mainly in the UK, despite muted demand for credit. Net fee income increased by 2%. CMB fee income rose due to higher transaction volumes reflecting new mandates in Payments and Cash Management. RBWM fee income also increased due 83 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) to lower commissions paid as a result of the run-off and subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses in Ireland. These increases were partly offset by a fall in brokerage fees in GPB, reflecting a reduction in client transaction volumes, due in part to lower market volatility. Fees from assets under management and account services also declined, as challenging market conditions in the latter half of 2011 led to a fall in average client assets in 2012, coupled with a reduction in client numbers as we repositioned our target client base. Net trading income increased by 27%, primarily due to significantly higher Rates trading revenues in the UK and France, and higher Credit trading revenues, mainly in the UK, as spreads tightened and investor sentiment improved following stimuli by central banks. This was despite significant adverse fair value movements in Rates, including a charge from own credit spreads on structured liabilities as spreads tightened which compared with a gain reported in 2011, together with a charge as a result of a change in estimation methodology in respect of credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets (see Note 15 on the Financial Statements). Revenues in our legacy credit portfolio increased due to price appreciation and redemption at par of certain assets. Foreign Exchange income was also stronger due to higher income from GB&M’s ongoing collaboration with CMB, and increased volumes from improvements in our electronic pricing and distribution capabilities, although this was partly offset by the effect of less volatile markets in 2012. In addition, trading income benefited from the change in estimation methodology for debit valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities (see Note 15 on the Financial Statements). There were lower adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges, driven by favourable fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings, compared with adverse fair value movements in 2011, reflecting the less pronounced decline in long-term US interest rates relative to sterling and euro interest rates than in 2011. This was partly offset by higher adverse movements on non-qualifying hedges in European operating entities as interest rates fell. Adverse foreign exchange movements were reported on assets held as economic hedges of foreign currency debt designated at fair value compared with favourable movements in 2011. These offset favourable foreign exchange movements on the foreign currency debt which are reported in ‘Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value’. Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value increased by US$4.8bn. Excluding adverse fair value movements due to the change in credit spreads on our own debt held at fair value, net income from financial instruments designated at fair value of US$1.9bn in 2012 compared with a net expense of US$374m in 2011. This reflected favourable foreign exchange movements on foreign currency debt designated at fair value issued as part of our overall funding strategy compared with adverse movements in 2011, with an offset reported in ‘Net trading income’. In addition, net investment gains were recognised on the fair value of assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts as market conditions improved, compared with net investment losses in 2011. The corresponding movement in liabilities to customers is recorded under ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’ to the extent that these investment gains or losses are attributable to policyholders holding unit-linked insurance policies and insurance or investment contracts with DPF. Gains less losses from financial investments decreased by US$133m. This was driven by higher impairments in GB&M in the UK of available-for-sale equity securities due to significant write-downs in 2012 on three holdings, two of which were in our direct investment business in run-off. The decline was also driven by losses on the disposal of legacy assets, also in GB&M in the UK (see page 27), together with the non-recurrence of gains in 2011 on the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities in our Insurance business in RBWM. These factors were partly offset by higher gains on the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities in Balance Sheet Management, mainly in the UK, as part of structural interest rate risk management activities, coupled with a rise in disposal gains in Principal Investments in GB&M. Net earned insurance premiums decreased by 6%. This mainly reflected lower life insurance sales in RBWM in France as a result of the adverse economic environment and increased competition from other banking products. The run-off and subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses in Ireland in 2012 also contributed to the decline. This was partly offset by a rise in net earned premiums in the UK due, in part, to the sale of a unit-linked insurance product through two new third party platforms. Other operating income decreased by US$95m. GB&M incurred losses on the sale of certain syndicated loans in the UK. In addition, gains in 84 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 on the disposal of a property fund did not recur. Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by 40%, driven by net investment gains on the fair value of the assets held to support policyholder contracts, compared with net losses in 2011. This was partly offset by lower reserves established for new business, reflecting the decline in premiums in France. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by 22% to US$1.9bn. GB&M reported lower credit risk provisions, mainly in the UK, on available-for-sale ABSs, driven by an improvement in underlying asset prices, as well as lower charges on Greek sovereign debt. These were coupled with a reduction in loan impairment charges in RBWM, notably in the UK, as we continued to pro-actively identify and monitor customers facing financial hardship and focused on growing higher quality lending. As a result, delinquency rates improved across both the secured and unsecured lending portfolios. This was partly offset by an increase in loan impairment charges in RBWM in Turkey, reflecting business expansion. In addition, there were higher individually assessed provisions in CMB reflecting, mainly, the challenging economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey. Operating expenses increased by 15%, driven by higher charges relating to UK customer redress programmes with US$2.3bn reported in 2012, compared with a charge of US$890m (US$898m as reported) in 2011. In 2012 we included an additional charge of US$1.7bn for estimated redress for the possible mis-selling of PPI policies and US$598m in relation to the possible mis-selling of interest rate protection products in previous years, of which US$268m related to the estimated redress to be paid to customers and the remainder to costs of closing out these positions and related administration costs. A charge relating to the US Office of Foreign Asset Control (‘OFAC’) investigation of US$375m was also incurred in HSBC Holdings, along with the UK bank levy of US$571m. This was partly offset by an adjustment of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy charge of US$570m as the basis of calculation was clarified. In addition, 2011 included a credit of US$570m (US$587m as reported) arising from the defined benefit pension obligations in the UK which did not recur. Restructuring costs of US$299m were US$92m lower than in 2011, as the review initiated in 2011 to improve cost efficiency continued to be implemented and we completed disposals and exits in Europe. Excluding these items, operating expenses marginally increased compared with 2011. Our organisational effectiveness initiatives progressed, delivering sustainable cost savings of approximately US$770m in 2012. This enabled us to reinvest in, and reallocate capital, to our designated growth businesses such as our mortgage offering, our international CMB business and our home and priority growth markets (UK, France, Germany and Turkey), as well as launching the M&S Bank in the UK. Operating expenses in Europe 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC Holdings 2,063 1,664 UK 11,993 9,989 Continental Europe 5,237 5,563 Intra-region eliminations (198 ) (147 ) Total operating expenses 19,095 17,069 85 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit/(loss) before tax – Europe 2011 as reportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012exchange rates US$m 2012 as reportedUS$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 11,001 (325 ) 10,676 10,394 (6 ) (3 ) Net fee income 6,236 (205 ) 6,031 6,169 (1 ) 2 Own credit spread26 2,947 (35 ) 2,912 (4,110 ) Other income27 4,062 (17 ) 4,045 5,155 27 27 Net operating income21 24,246 (582 ) 23,664 17,608 (27 ) (26 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (2,512 ) 54 (2,458 ) (1,921 ) 24 22 Net operating income 21,734 (528 ) 21,206 15,687 (28 ) (26 ) Operating expenses (17,069 ) 406 (16,663 ) (19,095 ) (12 ) (15 ) Operating profit/(loss) 4,665 (122 ) 4,543 (3,408 ) Income/(loss) from associates 6 (8 ) (2 ) (6 ) (200 ) Profit/(loss) before tax 4,671 (130 ) 4,541 (3,414 ) For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – Europe Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 17,608 24,246 (27 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (547 ) Own credit spread26 4,110 (2,947 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 3 – Underlying revenue 21,721 20,752 5 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (1,921 ) (2,512 ) 24 Currency translation adjustment24 54 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying LICs (1,921 ) (2,458 ) 22 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (19,095 ) (17,069 ) (12 ) Currency translation adjustment24 406 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying operating expenses (19,095 ) (16,663 ) (15 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 87.9% 80.3% Profit/(loss) before tax Reported profit/(loss) before tax (3,414 ) 4,671 Currency translation adjustment24 (95 ) Own credit spread26 4,110 (2,947 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 3 – Underlying profit before tax 699 1,629 (57 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 85a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background After growing by 2.1% in 2010, UK gross domestic product (‘GDP’) growth eased to 0.9% in 2011. The unemployment rate rose to 8.4% in December 2011. Despite the weakness in the domestic economy, an increase in the rate of value added tax and rising oil prices early in the year pushed the annual rate of consumer price index (‘CPI’) inflation to 5.2% in September 2011 before moderating to 3.6% in December 2011. The Bank of England maintained the Bank Rate at 0.5% throughout the year and expanded the size of its Asset Purchase Programme by £75bn (US$120bn) to £275bn (US$440bn) in October 2011. The eurozone economy grew by 1.5% in 2011, on the back of a recovery in global trade in the first half of 2011 and domestic fixed investment growth. Within the region, Germany saw the strongest recovery with GDP growing by 3%. The German unemployment rate, as measured by the International Labour Organisation, fell during the year, touching 5.5% in December but, for the eurozone as a whole, unemployment rose further to 10.4% in December. Concerns about sovereign debt sustainability persisted in 2011, leading to banking sector strains. The European Central Bank cut interest rates to 1% and introduced several new measures to ease strains in the banking sector including long-term refinancing operations of 36 months maturity and easing of commercial banks’ collateral requirements for use in these liquidity operations. Review of performance Our European operations reported a pre-tax profit of US$4.7bn, 9% higher than in 2010. These results included favourable fair value movements of US$2.9bn in 2011 due to the change in credit spreads on the Group’s own debt held at fair value, compared with adverse fair value movements of US$198m in 2010. In addition, 2010 included gains of US$107m and US$255m on the disposal of HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited and Eversholt Rail Group, respectively. Underlying profit before tax, excluding these items, decreased by 61% as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt markets dominated European market sentiment, resulting in markedly lower revenues in GB&M. During the year, we began to reshape our business portfolio and announced the closure of our retail banking businesses in Poland and Russia, the exit of operations from Georgia and the disposal of our UK motor insurance business. In order to improve cost efficiency and organisational effectiveness, we took measures to streamline our processes with the aim of lowering the future cost base of our operations while maintaining high standards of service. As a result of these initiatives, total restructuring costs of US$404m were incurred across the region in 2011. In RBWM, further progress was made in implementing our strategy of building long-term sustainable relationships with Premier customers. The Wealth Management business continued to develop with HSBC World Selection assets under management increasing by 21% during 2011 to £2.5bn (US$3.8bn) as a result of a strategic focus and continued marketing. The Global Investment Centre service was successfully launched in October 2011, enabling investors to hold and trade a wide range of third party and HSBC funds on-line. We continued to support the UK housing market during 2011, achieving strong growth in mortgage balances driven by successful marketing campaigns. Our share of new lending increased to 10% in 2011, while maintaining a conservative loan to value ratio of 53% on new lending. To support our customers through the prevailing economic conditions, we committed to make available £350m (US$542m) to UK mortgage borrowers with deposits of 15% or less. In addition, an increase in the customer base of 5% contributed to a growth in our UK deposit balances of 4%. In CMB, we made further progress on our strategy of becoming the leading international trade and business bank with a significant increase in the number of international customers, resulting in strong income growth from our trade-related business. We continue to strengthen our partnership with GB&M with a focus on driving product income growth, particularly in strategic financing and treasury risk management products. We also achieved strong growth in UK lending, reflecting our continued support to UK businesses during the difficult economic conditions. We exceeded our 2011 lending intentions under the Project Merlin agreement with the UK Government, both in terms of total and SME facilities. In Continental Europe, we experienced strong demand in term lending and significant growth in our deposit base in both RBWM and CMB, reflecting marketing and pricing initiatives. Our Trade and Supply Chain business performed strongly across the region, following the launch of our export initiative during 2011. In Europe we now have 18 countries with full renminbi functionality with the 85b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) ability to settle trade transactions via either Shanghai or Hong Kong. We won several awards in GB&M including ‘Best Debt House’ in Western Europe and the UK from Euromoney Awards for Excellence in 2011. We continued to invest in technology platforms including Equities and Prime Services and are therefore well positioned to capture medium-term opportunities in the region. We also continued to focus on cross-border initiatives to position ourselves to take advantage of trade flows. In Payments & Cash Management, enhanced network capabilities together with innovative liquidity, channel and payables solutions allowed us to win substantial business across the corporate and financial institution business segments. In GPB, revenue growth was driven by increased client activity as we leveraged our global businesses’ strengths and connectivity. GPB continues to build on its expertise in alternative investments, emerging markets and foreign exchange. The pace of regulatory reform is expected to gain momentum. This will include forthcoming legislation arising from the UK Independent Commission on Banking which is likely to require us to make significant changes to our corporate structure and business activities conducted through our UK banking subsidiary, HSBC Bank. Net interest income decreased by 6%, reflecting the decline in Balance Sheet Management revenues as higher-yielding positions matured and opportunities for reinvestment at similar yields were limited by the prevailing low interest rate environment. This was coupled with a fall in Credit and Lending net interest income as a result of lower balances, coupled with a decrease in effective yields and lower asset holdings in our legacy credit portfolio as a result of maturities and disposals aimed at reducing capital consumption. The above factors were partly offset by higher net interest income in CMB, driven by an increase in term lending balances in the UK and Continental Europe as a result of targeted campaigns during 2010 and 2011. Net interest income also benefited from strong mortgage balance growth in the UK along with strong deposit growth across the region, mainly driven by marketing campaigns, although offset in part by strong competition for deposits resulting in lower deposit spreads, notably in RBWM in the UK. Net fee income declined by 4% as management services income generated from the securities investment conduits within our legacy credit portfolio was lower, along with higher intercompany fees payable on intra-group referrals. In addition, overdraft fees declined due to reduced customer appetite for debt in the current market conditions. This was partly offset by higher levels of client activity in GPB due to an increase in transaction volumes related to higher market volatility. Net trading income decreased by 33%, due to significantly lower trading revenues in Credit and Rates as turmoil in eurozone sovereign debt markets escalated in the second half of 2011. Increased risk aversion and limited client activity led to a significant widening of spreads on certain eurozone sovereign and corporate bonds, resulting in losses in our Credit and Rates businesses. In addition, legacy credit revenues fell due to the non-recurrence of the price appreciation on legacy assets in 2010. Lower favourable foreign exchange movements were also reported on trading assets held as economic hedges of foreign currency debt designated at fair value. These offset lower adverse foreign exchange movements on the foreign currency debt which are reported in ‘Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value’. Trading income included a favourable fair value movement of US$391m from structured liabilities, mainly in Rates, as credit spreads widened compared with adverse fair value movements of US$29m in 2010. In our Equities business, revenues rose as investment in platforms improved our competitive positioning and helped capture increased client flows. This was coupled with lower losses on portfolio hedges in Global Banking compared with the previous year. Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$479m, reflecting net investment losses during 2011 on assets held by our insurance business to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts as equity markets fell, notably in the second half of 2011, compared with gains reported in 2010. To the extent that these losses were attributable to policyholders holding unit-linked insurance policies and insurance or investment contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. These losses were partly offset by lower adverse foreign exchange movements on foreign currency debt designated at fair value, issued as part of our overall funding strategy, with an offset reported in ‘Net trading income’. Gains less losses from financial investments were broadly in line with 2010. Net gains from the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities increased as part of normal portfolio management 85c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) activities. These were offset by lower gains from the disposal of available-for-sale equity securities as a deterioration in market confidence resulted in fewer disposal opportunities and lower gains from the disposal of private equity investments. In addition, there were write-downs of our equity investments in real estate companies. Net earned insurance premiums decreased by 3%, resulting from the non-renewal and transfer to third parties of certain contracts in our Irish business and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal of our motor insurance business in the UK. This was partly offset by an increase in premiums as we launched targeted sales campaigns, notably for investment contracts with DPF in France, and expanded distribution channels for unit-linked products in the UK. Other operating income decreased by 15%, driven by the non-recurrence of a gain on the sale and leaseback of our Paris headquarters in 2010. In addition, there was a reduction in the PVIF asset from net experience and assumption updates and a higher unwind of cash flows related to the growing in-force book, compared with 2010. This reduction was partly offset by a rise in the PVIF asset as a result of higher life insurance sales and a positive impact from a refinement to the PVIF calculation during 2011. Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders decreased by 28% as a result of investment losses experienced in 2011 on unit-linked insurance policies and insurance and investment contracts with DPF as equity markets declined, which contrasted with investment gains in 2010. Also, the non-renewal and transfer to third parties of certain contracts in the Irish business and the continued run-off and subsequent disposal of our legacy motor business in the UK resulted in a decrease in net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. Partly offsetting these declines were increases in liabilities to policyholders established for new business written. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by 20% to US$2.5bn. This mainly reflected a range of successful initiatives taken to mitigate credit risk within RBWM including a focus on monitoring and identifying customers facing financial hardship. This resulted in lower delinquency rates across both the secured and unsecured lending portfolios. In CMB, loan impairment charges declined as the non-recurrence of specific provisions in the UK was partly offset by higher specific provisions related to a small number of customers in Greece. In GB&M, we recorded a charge of US$145m to write down to market value available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt now judged to be impaired. In addition, impairments of US$46m were included in our GPB and insurance businesses in relation to Greek available-for-sale debt securities. These were partly offset by lower credit risk provisions on ABSs as the losses arising in the underlying collateral pools generated lower charges on ABSs. Operating expenses increased by 9%. This included provisions of US$898m relating to UK customer redress programmes, including a charge in respect of possible mis-selling of PPI in previous years, a cost of US$570m in respect of the UK bank levy and restructuring provisions of US$404m. These were partly offset by a credit of US$587m resulting from a change in the inflation measure used to calculate the defined benefit obligation for deferred pensions in the UK. Costs in 2010 included one-off payroll and bonus taxes of US$354m (US$324m as reported) in the UK and France. Excluding these items, operating expenses rose as we incurred higher regulatory and compliance costs, along with an increase in expenses as a result of the strengthening of the Swiss franc, which accounts for a significant proportion of the GPB cost base. In GB&M, performance-related awards were substantially lower than in 2010, reflecting the decline in revenues, although this was mostly offset by higher amortisation charges for previous years’ performance shares and an acceleration in the expense recognition of current-year deferred bonus awards. Notwithstanding these factors, we have achieved about US$300m of sustainable savings during 2011. This has enabled the funding of investment in strategic initiatives, including the development of Prime Services and equity market capabilities and the expansion of the Rates and Foreign Exchange e-commerce platforms. 85d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – Europe31 2010 as reportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 as reportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011 under- lying US$m Re- ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 11,250 48 365 11,663 11,001 – 11,001 (2 ) (6 ) Net fee income 6,371 (55 ) 176 6,492 6,236 – 6,236 (2 ) (4 ) Changes in fair value26 (198 ) 198 – – 2,947 (2,947 ) – – Other income27 5,327 (499 ) 188 5,016 4,062 – 4,062 (24 ) (19 ) Net operating income21 22,750 (308 ) 729 23,171 24,246 (2,947 ) 21,299 7 (8 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (3,020 ) – (112 ) (3,132 ) (2,512 ) – (2,512 ) 17 20 Net operating income 19,730 (308 ) 617 20,039 21,734 (2,947 ) 18,787 10 (6 ) Operating expenses (15,445 ) 220 (436 ) (15,661 ) (17,069 ) – (17,069 ) (11 ) (9 ) Operating profit 4,285 (88 ) 181 4,378 4,665 (2,947 ) 1,718 9 (61 ) Income from associates 17 – (14 ) 3 6 – 6 (65 ) 100 Profit before tax 4,302 (88 ) 167 4,381 4,671 (2,947 ) 1,724 9 (61 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 85e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Europe 2012 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income/(expense) 5,437 3,228 1,409 820 (543 ) 43 10,394 Net fee income 2,622 1,658 1,032 848 9 – 6,169 Trading income excluding net interest income 67 26 848 216 25 – 1,182 Net interest income on trading activities 7 14 1,500 14 33 (43 ) 1,525 Net trading income78 74 40 2,348 230 58 (43 ) 2,707 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (3,091 ) – (3,091 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 770 139 1,073 – (1,106 ) – 876 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 770 139 1,073 – (4,197 ) – (2,215 ) Gains less losses from financial investments (5 ) (1 ) 375 (3 ) (2 ) – 364 Dividend income – 1 104 3 3 – 111 Net earned insurance premiums 3,150 438 – 42 – – 3,630 Other operating income 84 58 88 61 796 (9 ) 1,078 Total operating income/(expense) 12,132 5,561 6,429 2,001 (3,876 ) (9 ) 22,238 Net insurance claims86 (4,054 ) (536 ) – (40 ) – – (4,630 ) Net operating income/(expense)21 8,078 5,025 6,429 1,961 (3,876 ) (9 ) 17,608 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (347 ) (1,109 ) (436 ) (29 ) – – (1,921 ) Net operating income/(expense) 7,731 3,916 5,993 1,932 (3,876 ) (9 ) 15,687 Total operating expenses (7,225 ) (2,708 ) (4,999 ) (1,431 ) (2,741 ) 9 (19,095 ) Operating profit/(loss) 506 1,208 994 501 (6,617 ) – (3,408 ) Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 3 – (8 ) (2 ) 1 – (6 ) Profit/(loss) before tax 509 1,208 986 499 (6,616 ) – (3,414 ) % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 2.5 5.9 4.8 2.4 (32.0 ) (16.5 ) Cost efficiency ratio 89.4 53.9 77.8 73.0 (70.7 ) 108.4 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 170,002 105,796 156,798 29,963 881 463,440 Total assets 240,744 132,718 1,044,507 76,145 75,513 (180,387 ) 1,389,240 Customer accounts 191,024 121,648 184,473 57,125 739 555,009 86 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income/(expense) 5,653 3,107 2,102 936 (574 ) (223 ) 11,001 Net fee income 2,633 1,640 989 942 32 – 6,236 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 40 5 602 191 (201 ) – 637 Net interest income on trading activities 11 16 1,205 16 53 223 1,524 Net trading income/(expense)78 51 21 1,807 207 (148 ) 223 2,161 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – 3,180 – 3,180 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value (672 ) (21 ) (65 ) – 46 – (712 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value (672 ) (21 ) (65 ) – 3,226 – 2,468 Gains less losses from financial investments 51 (1 ) 453 1 11 – 515 Dividend income 1 1 42 4 1 – 49 Net earned insurance premiums 3,768 381 – – (13 ) – 4,136 Other operating income 95 58 187 5 760 74 1,179 Total operating income 11,580 5,186 5,515 2,095 3,295 74 27,745 Net insurance claims86 (3,212 ) (287 ) – – – – (3,499 ) Net operating income21 8,368 4,899 5,515 2,095 3,295 74 24,246 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (596 ) (960 ) (876 ) (82 ) 2 – (2,512 ) Net operating income 7,772 3,939 4,639 2,013 3,297 74 21,734 Total operating expenses (6,450 ) (2,252 ) (4,569 ) (1,456 ) (2,268 ) (74 ) (17,069 ) Operating profit 1,322 1,687 70 557 1,029 – 4,665 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures – – 7 – (1 ) – 6 Profit before tax 1,322 1,687 77 557 1,028 – 4,671 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 6.0 7.7 0.4 2.5 4.7 21.3 Cost efficiency ratio 77.1 46.0 82.8 69.5 68.8 70.4 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 150,205 98,154 156,903 28,378 696 434,336 Total assets 210,140 124,049 1,021,486 77,410 63,141 (214,281 ) 1,281,945 Customer accounts 176,134 104,530 154,208 58,265 267 493,404 For footnotes, see page 120. 87 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Europe (continued) 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 5,537 2,774 2,935 871 (654 ) (213 ) 11,250 Net fee income 2,559 1,570 1,320 883 39 – 6,371 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (6 ) 3 1,541 185 (262 ) – 1,461 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities (1 ) 19 1,127 21 23 213 1,402 Net trading income/(expense)78 (7 ) 22 2,668 206 (239 ) 213 2,863 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (365 ) – (365 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 496 113 (23 ) – 61 – 647 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 496 113 (23 ) – (304 ) – 282 Gains less losses from financial investments (36 ) – 525 (7 ) 4 – 486 Dividend income – 1 16 2 1 – 20 Net earned insurance premiums 3,800 278 – – (11 ) – 4,067 Other operating income 187 163 817 7 754 189 2,117 Total operating income/(expense) 12,536 4,921 8,258 1,962 (410 ) 189 27,456 Net insurance claims86 (4,364 ) (342 ) – – – – (4,706 ) Net operating income/(expense)21 8,172 4,579 8,258 1,962 (410 ) 189 22,750 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (1,217 ) (997 ) (783 ) (26 ) 3 – (3,020 ) Net operating income/(expense) 6,955 3,582 7,475 1,936 (407 ) 189 19,730 Total operating expenses (5,647 ) (2,378 ) (4,784 ) (1,296 ) (1,151 ) (189 ) (15,445 ) Operating profit/(loss) 1,308 1,204 2,691 640 (1,558 ) – 4,285 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 4 1 12 – – – 17 Profit/(loss) before tax 1,312 1,205 2,703 640 (1,558 ) – 4,302 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 6.9 6.3 14.2 3.4 (8.2 ) 22.6 Cost efficiency ratio 69.1 51.9 57.9 66.1 (280.7 ) 67.9 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 145,069 91,744 170,369 27,629 988 435,799 Total assets 205,032 111,356 962,861 76,631 65,824 (172,177 ) 1,249,527 Customer accounts 169,016 96,597 169,836 56,114 – 491,563 For footnotes, see page 120. 87a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Hong Kong HSBC’s principal banking subsidiaries in Hong Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank Limited. The former is the largest bank incorporated in Hong Kong and is our flagship bank in the Asia-Pacific region. It is one of Hong Kong’s three note-issuing banks, accounting for more than 60% by value of banknotes in circulation in 2012. 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 5,316 4,691 4,246 Net fee income 3,335 3,097 2,962 Net trading income 1,463 1,189 1,312 Other income 2,308 1,705 1,682 Net operating income21 12,422 10,682 10,202 LICs76 (74 ) (156 ) (114 ) Net operating income 12,348 10,526 10,088 Total operating expenses (4,848 ) (4,758 ) (4,431 ) Operating profit 7,500 5,768 5,657 Income from associates77 82 55 35 Profit before tax 7,582 5,823 5,692 Cost efficiency ratio 39.0% 44.5% 43.4% RoRWA66 7.0% 5.3% 5.0% Year-end staff numbers 27,742 28,984 29,171 24% growth in underlying profit before tax Market leader in offshore renminbi bond issuance Best Commercial Bank 2012 (FinanceAsia) For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background The Hong Kong economy started 2012 on a strong footing, but lost momentum in the second quarter as global trade flows slowed and the mainland Chinese economy cooled, causing GDP to contract slightly. Domestic demand stayed resilient, however, supported by continued wage growth, and firm job market conditions and asset prices. This underpinned investment and private consumption growth, leading the economy back into expansion in the third quarter (0.6%, quarter-on-quarter, seasonally adjusted). Slower economic momentum and deflationary pressures in mainland China allowed the pressure on Hong Kong’s asset prices to ease through most of 2012, resulting in reduced CPI inflation of 4.1%, compared with 5.3% in 2011. Review of performance Reported pre-tax profits from our operations in Hong Kong were US$7.6bn compared with US$5.8bn in 2011, an increase of 30% on both a reported and a constant currency basis. Reported profits included gains on the sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd of US$212m and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank general insurance businesses of US$117m and US$46m, respectively. Excluding these gains and associated operating results, underlying profit of US$7.2bn increased by 24%, driven by higher net interest income in CMB and RBWM, the gain of US$314m on the sale of non-strategic investments in India, higher trading revenues in GB&M, increased fee income in both CMB and GB&M, and a reduction in loan impairment charges. These favourable movements were partly offset by higher operating expenses. In RBWM, we continue to develop our Wealth Management services for our retail customers and launched new investment funds, including the Global High Yield Bond Fund which attracted over US$1bn of subscriptions by the end of the year. The sale of the general insurance businesses enabled us to focus on life insurance manufacturing, where we maintained our market leadership position. We also led the market in deposits, mortgages, mandatory provident funds and credit cards. We maintained our prudent lending approach with average loan-to-value ratios of 48% on new mortgage drawdowns and an estimated 32% on the portfolio as a whole. We now offer renminbi current accounts for non-residents and launched the first mobile payment solution in the region, enabling contactless credit card transactions through Visa payWave terminals. 88 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by global business 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010US$m Retail Banking and Wealth Management 3,694 3,022 3,001 Commercial Banking 2,188 1,608 1,352 Global Banking and Markets 1,518 1,316 1,347 Global Private Banking 249 188 227 Other (67 ) (311 ) (235 ) 7,582 5,823 5,692 In CMB, we capitalised on our international connectivity and our standing as a leading trade finance bank to grow trade-related revenues by 10%, particularly with mainland China. The collaboration between CMB and GB&M continued to strengthen, with revenue growth of 13%, most notably from the provision of foreign exchange products to our corporate customers. We won the FinanceAsia award for ‘Best Commercial Bank 2012’ and ten Asiamoney awards for Payments and Cash Management, including the ‘Best Local Cash Management Bank’ for small, medium and large corporates. In GB&M, we led the market in Hong Kong dollar bond issuance and were the leading bookrunner for corporate high yield bonds in Asia excluding Japan. We continued to lead the market in offshore renminbi bond issuance with several high-profile deals completed in 2012 for multinationals accessing the market. We also reinforced our position as a leading international bank for offshore renminbi products, winning the Asia Risk ‘Renminbi House of the Year’ award and all seven product categories in Asiamoney’s ‘Offshore Renminbi Survey’. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income was 13% higher than in 2011, notably in CMB and RBWM, driven by increased customer loans and deposit balances and by growth in the insurance portfolio. In RBWM, we continued to grow our average mortgage balances, reflecting continued strength in the property market. In CMB, average term and trade-related lending balances were higher as we capitalised on trade and capital flows. Asset spreads in CMB were marginally wider than in 2011 on trade-related and other lending due to repricing, though they began to narrow towards the end of the year. Net interest income also rose due to higher average deposit balances, notably in RBWM, in part reflecting reduced net outflows from customer accounts into investments. In addition, deposit spreads widened. Net fee income of US$3.3bn was 7% higher than in 2011. Fees rose from increased transaction volumes in trade services, remittances and account services as we continued to intermediate international trade and capital flows. Fee income also increased in both CMB and GB&M as we arranged more debt issues for our customers to satisfy their funding requirements while the market for corporate debt improved. In RBWM, fees from unit trusts rose reflecting increased sales volumes, despite customers increasingly preferring lower risk products with lower fees. These increases were largely offset by a reduction in brokerage income from lower market turnover as a result of weaker investor sentiment. Net trading income increased by 23% from lower adverse fair value movements on derivatives relating to certain provident funds, following reductions in long-term investment returns in 2011. There was also a strong performance in GB&M, notably in Rates trading activities, which reflected increased client demand for risk management products, particularly in yen and renminbi, in part from increased cross-currency debt issuance by corporates. Credit trading revenues also rose, in part due to increased client activity. This was partly offset by a net charge as a result of a change in estimation methodology in respect of the valuation adjustments on derivatives. Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$447m compared with an expense of US$540m in 2011, due to net investment gains on assets held by the Insurance business (compared with net losses in 2011) as a result of more favourable equity market conditions. To the extent that these investment gains were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. 89 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Gains less losses from financial investments were US$322m compared with US$25m in 2011, largely from the gain of US$314m on the sale of our shares in four non-strategic investments in India. Net earned insurance premiums grew by 17% following increased new sales and renewals of life insurance products. The growth in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Other operating income of US$1.9bn was US$235m higher than in 2011. We completed the sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank general insurance businesses, realising gains of US$212m, US$117m and US$46m, respectively. While the value of the PVIF asset rose, this was not to the same extent as in 2011 as increased insurance sales in 2012 were more than offset by lower positive assumption updates during 2012 compared with 2011 and the non-recurrence of the benefit from the refinement to the PVIF asset calculation in 2011. Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by 38%, driven by net investment gains on fair value of the assets held to support policyholder contracts, compared with net losses in 2011. In addition, policyholder liabilities were established for new business, reflecting the higher premiums, though this was partly offset by the disposal of the insurance businesses in 2012. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions reduced to US$74m from US$157m in 2011, largely due to lower specific impairment charges in CMB and the non-recurrence of charges relating to available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities. Operating expenses increased by 2%, primarily due to higher systems implementation and processing costs as we continued to invest in our technology infrastructure, and increased property rental costs. Salaries and wages were broadly unchanged as wage inflation was largely offset by reduced average staff numbers as we continued to improve efficiency across our operations, generating sustainable annual savings of approximately US$190m. 90 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit before tax – Hong Kong 2011 as reported US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012 exchange rates US$m 2012 as reported US$m Reported change25 % Constant currency change25 % Net interest income 4,691 20 4,711 5,316 13 13 Net fee income 3,097 11 3,108 3,335 8 7 Other income27 2,894 8 2,902 3,771 30 30 Net operating income21 10,682 39 10,721 12,422 16 16 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (156 ) (1 ) (157 ) (74 ) 53 53 Net operating income 10,526 38 10,564 12,348 17 17 Operating expenses (4,758 ) (18 ) (4,776 ) (4,848 ) (2 ) (2 ) Operating profit 5,768 20 5,788 7,500 30 30 Income from associates 55 – 55 82 49 49 Profit before tax 5,823 20 5,843 7,582 30 30 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – Hong Kong Year ended 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 12,422 10,682 16 Currency translation adjustment24 39 Own credit spread26 – – Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (445 ) (109 ) Underlying revenue 11,977 10,612 13 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (74 ) (156 ) 53 Currency translation adjustment24 (1 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying LICs (74 ) (157 ) 53 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (4,848 ) (4,758 ) (2 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (18 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 34 40 Underlying operating expenses (4,814 ) (4,736 ) (2 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 40.2% 44.6% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 7,582 5,823 30 Currency translation adjustment24 20 Own credit spread26 – – Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (420 ) (82 ) Underlying profit before tax 7,162 5,761 24 For footnotes, see page 120. 90a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background Hong Kong registered very strong economic growth entering 2011. This eased during the course of the year due to supply chain disruptions triggered by the earthquake in Japan and some slowing in demand from mainland China following a tightening of policy to counter inflation. Nonetheless, Hong Kong GDP grew by 5% in 2011. Some slowing in the pace of growth was welcomed as it helped reduce inflationary pressures that had been mounting earlier in 2011 in both consumer and property markets. Unemployment rates in Hong Kong improved steadily during 2011, falling from 3.9% at the end of 2010 to 3.2% by the end of the year. Inter-bank interest rates stayed low during 2011, rising slightly to 0.325% by 31 December. Review of performance Our operations in Hong Kong reported pre-tax profits of US$5.8bn compared with US$5.7bn in 2010, an increase of 2%. On an underlying basis, excluding gains arising from the reclassification of Bao Viet as an associate and following the sale of HSBC Private Equity (Asia) Ltd, both in 2010, profit before tax rose by 5%. The increase in profitability was driven by higher revenues from increased customer lending which reflected growth in trade flows, coupled with strong demand for wealth management products, partly offset by a rise in staff and support costs reflecting wage inflation and higher business volumes in 2011. Following significant loan growth in 2010 and the first half of 2011, we experienced slower growth in our businesses during the second half of 2011. In RBWM, we retained market leadership across our key products. In residential mortgages we retained the number one market position as we continued to provide competitive products for our customers. Our leading market share in life insurance reflected our strong customer focus and diverse product offerings. We also maintained market leadership in the provision of mandatory provident funds and launched a new product which offers our customers a wider choice and lower fees. We retained our number one position in cards reflecting the success of our various marketing campaigns and customer focus, and saw continued strong sales of wealth management products, though revenues were affected in the latter part of 2011 as stock market turnover reduced and investor sentiment weakened. In CMB, we grew trade revenues as we continued to capture cross-border opportunities, particularly with mainland China, which accounted for more than half of our new-to-bank CMB customers. The number of cross-border referrals between Hong Kong and mainland China increased by 9%. We also opened four new business banking centres in Hong Kong and set up the China Corporate team in Hong Kong to service mainland Chinese companies looking to expand internationally. We continued to strengthen the collaboration between CMB and GB&M, resulting in incremental revenue growth through the provision of foreign exchange and interest rate management products to our corporate clients. In GB&M, we maintained our number one market position in Hong Kong dollar bond issuance and acted as a joint lead manager on the government’s first inflation-linked bond issue, the largest ever retail bond issue in Hong Kong. We also continued to enhance our equity capital markets capabilities, expanded our equity research team, and were bookrunner in six of the ten largest initial public offerings (‘IPO’s) in Hong Kong this year. During 2011 we won several awards including Best Investment Bank and Best Equity House from FinanceAsia and Best Flow House and Best Debt Capital Markets House in Asia from Euromoney. We continued to reinforce our position as a leading international renminbi bank and became the market leader in offshore renminbi bond issuance and won awards from both Finance Asia and IFR Asia for Best Offshore Renminbi Bond House. We arranged the first ever renminbi subordinated bank bond and participated in the largest ever offshore renminbi bond deal by a sovereign issuer, demonstrating the depth and diversity of our involvement in this market. Net interest income was 11% higher than in 2010, driven by the income from strong lending growth during 2010 and the first half of 2011 which reflected increased trade flows and demand for credit. We saw more moderate loan growth in GB&M and RBWM in the second half of 2011, which was more than offset by a reduction in certain trade finance loans in CMB. The Hong Kong property market slowed in the second half of 2011 and we continued to lend conservatively, with average loan to value ratios of 49% on new residential mortgage draw-downs and an estimated 37% on the portfolio as a whole. Spreads narrowed in RBWM due to a shift in the product mix to lower-yielding HIBOR-linked 90b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) mortgages, and in CMB as growth was concentrated in lower-margin trade financing and HIBOR-linked loans. HIBOR-linked spreads began to improve marginally in the second half of the year due to product repricing. Average customer deposit balances rose despite a highly competitive environment, supported by the opening of new business centres, growth in the offshore renminbi market, our comprehensive suite of renminbi solutions across Trade and Supply Chain, and Payments and Cash Management. Net fee income increased by 5% as a result of higher sales of wealth management products, particularly unit trusts reflecting increased product offerings, competitive pricing and ongoing marketing campaigns. This was achieved in the low interest rate environment in which clients sought products which could increase their returns. Card transactions grew, reflecting higher retail spending in 2011 supported by marketing campaigns. Underwriting fees rose due to our participation in many of the largest equity capital market transactions in 2011 supported by the continued enhancement of our equity market capabilities. Remittances and trade-related fees also increased reflecting increased product offerings and higher cross-border trade volumes. This was partly offset by lower broking income, notably towards the end of the year due to increased competition. Net trading income reduced by 9%. We recorded adverse fair value movements on derivatives relating to certain provident funds as long-term investment returns fell. We also incurred losses on equity options backing an endowment product in RBWM due to unfavourable movements in the underlying equity indices which resulted in a corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. These losses were partly offset by higher trading income in GB&M due to a rise in net interest income from trading activities from Asian government debt securities and corporate bonds. Trading income fell through lower revenues in credit trading as credit spreads widened in some markets. This was partly offset by higher revenues in foreign exchange following greater market volatility in the region and the collaboration between CMB and GB&M. In addition, revenues in Equities increased in line with improved volumes in the business. Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$537m compared with gains in 2010 due to investment losses on assets held by the insurance business as a result of negative movements in the equity market during the second half of 2011. To the extent that these investment losses were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Net earned insurance premiums increased by 18% as a result of successful sales initiatives for deferred annuities, unit-linked products and a universal life insurance product targeted at high net worth individuals. This reflected our strategic focus on wealth management, of which insurance is a key part. The growth in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Other operating income increased by 10%, largely due to an increase in PVIF and higher revaluation gains on investment properties. PVIF rose as a result of higher life insurance sales, a one-off gain of US$135m recognised upon the refinement of the calculation of the PVIF and a net increase from updates for experience and assumptions during 2011. Partially offsetting this was a higher unwind of cash flows related to the growing in-force book. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions increased by US$42m from a low base due to a specific impairment charge against one customer, higher collective impairment charges in CMB resulting from lending growth, and an impairment recorded in respect of available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities in GPB. These were partly offset by releases in GB&M relating to specific impairment charges raised in 2010. Operating expenses rose by 7% due to higher staff costs across the business reflecting wage inflation in a competitive labour market and a rise in average staff numbers to support increased business activity. Performance costs increased in GB&M due to higher amortisation charges for previous years’ performance shares and accelerated expense recognition of current year deferred bonus awards. During 2011 we incurred US$68m of restructuring costs as we took steps to improve efficiency, including the restructuring of our regional head office. 90c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – Hong Kong31 2010 as reported US$m 2010 adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at 2011 exchange rates33 US$m 2011 as reported US$m 2011 adjust- ments32 US$m 2011 under- lying US$m Re- ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 4,246 – (1 ) 4,245 4,691 – 4,691 10 11 Net fee income 2,962 – (3 ) 2,959 3,097 – 3,097 5 5 Changes in fair value26 (6 ) 6 – – – – – Other income27 3,000 (136 ) (7 ) 2,857 2,894 – 2,894 (4 ) 1 Net operating income21 10,202 (130 ) (11 ) 10,061 10,682 – 10,682 5 6 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (114 ) – – (114 ) (156 ) – (156 ) (37 ) (37 ) Net operating income 10,088 (130 ) (11 ) 9,947 10,526 – 10,526 4 6 Operating expenses (4,431 ) – 2 (4,429 ) (4,758 ) – (4,758 ) (7 ) (7 ) Operating profit 5,657 (130 ) (9 ) 5,518 5,768 – 5,768 2 5 Income from associates 35 – (1 ) 34 55 – 55 57 62 Profit before tax 5,692 (130 ) (10 ) 5,552 5,823 – 5,823 2 5 For footnotes, see page 120. 90d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong 2012 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 2,851 1,629 1,087 149 (482 ) 82 5,316 Net fee income 1,769 850 548 155 13 – 3,335 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 176 163 666 170 (2 ) – 1,173 Net interest income on trading activities 10 2 352 – 8 (82 ) 290 Net trading income78 186 165 1,018 170 6 (82 ) 1,463 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – – – – Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designatedat fair value 511 (53 ) 23 – (34 ) – 447 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 511 (53 ) 23 – (34 ) – 447 Gains less losses from financial investments – – 2 7 313 – 322 Dividend income – 1 5 – 18 – 24 Net earned insurance premiums 5,294 655 8 – – – 5,957 Other operating income 711 253 77 13 1,152 (282 ) 1,924 Total operating income 11,322 3,500 2,768 494 986 (282 ) 18,788 Net insurance claims86 (5,757 ) (602 ) (7 ) – – – (6,366 ) Net operating income21 5,565 2,898 2,761 494 986 (282 ) 12,422 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (97 ) 3 17 3 – – (74 ) Net operating income 5,468 2,901 2,778 497 986 (282 ) 12,348 Total operating expenses (1,819 ) (719 ) (1,263 ) (248 ) (1,081 ) 282 (4,848 ) Operating profit/(loss) 3,649 2,182 1,515 249 (95 ) – 7,500 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 45 6 3 – 28 – 82 Profit/(loss) before tax 3,694 2,188 1,518 249 (67 ) – 7,582 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 17.9 10.6 7.3 1.2 (0.3 ) 36.7 Cost efficiency ratio 32.7 24.8 45.7 50.2 109.6 39.0 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 62,533 62,944 40,223 6,464 1,449 173,613 Total assets 96,185 72,056 256,295 20,705 81,085 (7,992 ) 518,334 Customer accounts 201,649 90,152 34,171 19,566 670 346,208 91 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong (continued) 2011 RetailBanking and WealthManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 2,571 1,317 1,051 173 (464 ) 43 4,691 Net fee income 1,741 706 475 160 15 – 3,097 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 120 169 652 135 (116 ) – 960 Net interest income on trading activities 9 1 246 – 16 (43 ) 229 Net trading income/(expense)78 129 170 898 135 (100 ) (43 ) 1,189 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – – – – Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value (475 ) (72 ) (5 ) – 15 – (537 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value (475 ) (72 ) (5 ) – 15 – (537 ) Gains less losses from financial investments 3 10 21 – (10 ) – 24 Dividend income – 1 14 – 24 – 39 Net earned insurance premiums 4,317 758 13 – – – 5,088 Other operating income 505 175 79 8 1,185 (268 ) 1,684 Total operating income 8,791 3,065 2,546 476 665 (268 ) 15,275 Net insurance claims86 (3,887 ) (697 ) (9 ) – – – (4,593 ) Net operating income21 4,904 2,368 2,537 476 665 (268 ) 10,682 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (77 ) (66 ) 23 (36 ) – – (156 ) Net operating income 4,827 2,302 2,560 440 665 (268 ) 10,526 Total operating expenses (1,811 ) (703 ) (1,248 ) (252 ) (1,012 ) 268 (4,758 ) Operating profit/(loss) 3,016 1,599 1,312 188 (347 ) – 5,768 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 6 9 4 – 36 – 55 Profit/(loss) before tax 3,022 1,608 1,316 188 (311 ) – 5,823 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 13.8 7.3 6.0 0.9 (1.4 ) 26.6 Cost efficiency ratio 36.9 29.7 49.2 52.9 152.2 44.5 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 56,296 54,986 39,667 5,447 1,269 157,665 Total assets 85,866 63,516 238,892 20,680 84,782 (20,712 ) 473,024 Customer accounts 181,316 79,225 35,283 19,622 (101 ) 315,345 For footnotes, see page 120. 92 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong (continued) 2010 RetailBanking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 2,604 1,106 915 173 (463 ) (89 ) 4,246 Net fee income 1,656 634 495 163 14 – 2,962 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 198 121 680 120 (12 ) – 1,107 Net interest income on trading activities 4 – 100 – 12 89 205 Net trading income78 202 121 780 120 – 89 1,312 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued andrelated derivatives – – – – (2 ) – (2 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 328 (10 ) 61 – 1 – 380 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 328 (10 ) 61 – (1 ) – 378 Gains less losses from financial investments – – 56 1 41 – 98 Dividend income – 1 12 – 17 – 30 Net earned insurance premiums 3,655 665 12 – – – 4,332 Other operating income 513 68 156 12 1,140 (283 ) 1,606 Total operating income 8,958 2,585 2,487 469 748 (283 ) 14,964 Net insurance claims86 (4,193 ) (559 ) (10 ) – – – (4,762 ) Net operating income21 4,765 2,026 2,477 469 748 (283 ) 10,202 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (76 ) (28 ) (10 ) – – – (114 ) Net operating income 4,689 1,998 2,467 469 748 (283 ) 10,088 Total operating expenses (1,693 ) (653 ) (1,124 ) (242 ) (1,002 ) 283 (4,431 ) Operating profit/(loss) 2,996 1,345 1,343 227 (254 ) – 5,657 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 5 7 4 – 19 – 35 Profit/(loss) before tax 3,001 1,352 1,347 227 (235 ) – 5,692 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 15.7 7.1 7.1 1.2 (1.2 ) 29.9 Cost efficiency ratio 35.5 32.2 45.4 51.6 134.0 43.4 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 50,983 48,670 34,491 4,760 1,787 140,691 Total assets 76,871 55,030 223,286 20,598 62,486 (8,706 ) 429,565 Customer accounts 176,960 71,209 29,388 19,241 686 297,484 For footnotes, see page 120. 92a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Rest of Asia-Pacific We offer a full range of banking and financial services in mainland China, mainly through our local subsidiary, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited. We also participate indirectly in mainland China through our primary associate, Bank of Communications. Outside mainland China, we conduct business in 21 countries and territories in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, primarily through branches and subsidiaries of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in Australia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest income 5,391 5,102 3,828 Net fee income 2,083 2,111 1,932 Net trading income 1,053 1,658 1,618 Other income 5,057 1,842 1,854 Net operating income21 13,584 10,713 9,232 LICs76 (436 ) (267 ) (439 ) Net operating income 13,148 10,446 8,793 Total operating expenses (5,806 ) (5,806 ) (5,143 ) Operating profit 7,342 4,640 3,650 Income from associates77 3,106 2,831 2,252 Profit before tax 10,448 7,471 5,902 Cost efficiency ratio 42.7% 54.2% 55.7% RoRWA66 3.5% 3.1% 3.1% Year-end staff numbers 85,024 91,051 91,607 Over US$3bn gains recognised following strategic disposals in 2012 9% growth in lending balances (on a constant currency basis) ‘Best Domestic Cash Management Bank’ (Euromoney) across 14 countries in the region For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background In mainland China, economic growth slowed through the first three quarters of 2012 due to a decline in external demand driven by the eurozone crisis, the effect of tightening domestic monetary policy measures and sharp de-stocking by industry. This greater than expected deceleration and increasing pressure on the labour market prompted policy makers to ease monetary policy in the summer of 2012, following two interest rate cuts totalling 50bps and two cuts in the reserve requirement ratio amounting to 100bps in the first half of the year, and speeded up the approval of new infrastructure projects. As these measures took effect, the mainland Chinese economy began to show signs of recovery in the fourth quarter of 2012. GDP slowed to 7.8% in 2012 from 9.3% in 2011, but remained above Beijing’s target of 7.5%. CPI inflation was a modest 2.6%. Japan’s economy experienced a turbulent 2012. After a very strong start supported by reconstruction demand and government subsidies, growth turned sharply negative in the third quarter as tepid overseas demand prompted a deep slump in exports and manufacturing. Sentiment improved by the end of 2012. The Bank of Japan took steps to ease monetary policy in 2012, establishing a 1% inflation goal in February 2012 and expanding its Asset Purchase Programme by JPY46 trillion (US$534bn). Slowing global trade reduced growth in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region. South Korea’s full-year growth slowed to 2.1% in 2012, the lowest annual rate for three years, as the slowdown in global trade hit the export-dependent economy hard in the third quarter. To support domestic demand, the Bank of Korea lowered its policy rate from 3.25% to 2.75%. Singapore’s economy slowed notably, with GDP growth declining to 1.2% in 2012 from 5% the year before. 2012 was a tumultuous year for Taiwan’s export-reliant economy, as both western and mainland China demand weakened, particularly from April onwards. However, the impetus provided by key electronic product launches helped to maintain manufacturing activity and jobs, enabling domestic demand to underpin growth more effectively than it did in earlier recessions. The other ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries demonstrated more resilience, supported by domestic growth. Growth in Indonesia was driven by favourable demographics and a growing middle-income class. In Thailand, rebuilding activity and policy support after the floods in 2011 led to a rebound in economic activity. Growth in India continued to slow during the course of 2012, with 93 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses RetailBanking andWealth Management US$m CommercialBankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Australia 97 38 184 – (44 ) 275 India 41 89 497 7 175 809 Indonesia 29 124 146 – 7 306 Mainland China 838 1,724 1,257 (4 ) 2,525 6,340 Ping An 622 82 60 – 2,459 3,223 Other associates 268 1,466 591 – – 2,325 Other mainland China (52 ) 176 606 (4 ) 66 792 Malaysia 183 131 242 – 8 564 Singapore 201 139 296 97 (65 ) 668 Taiwan 62 36 136 – – 234 Vietnam 9 45 57 – 9 120 Other 57 276 510 59 230 1,132 1,517 2,602 3,325 159 2,845 10,448 2011 Australia 88 106 108 – 5 307 India (14 ) 122 539 5 161 813 Indonesia 6 89 157 – 7 259 Mainland China 1,112 1,340 1,116 (4 ) 117 3,681 Ping An 946 – 63 – 117 1,126 Other associates 233 1,150 466 – – 1,849 Other mainland China (67 ) 190 587 (4 ) – 706 Malaysia 173 118 228 1 9 529 Singapore 183 133 189 97 (7 ) 595 Taiwan 45 23 130 – 12 210 Vietnam – 51 79 – 24 154 Other 48 264 543 (8 ) 76 923 1,641 2,246 3,089 91 404 7,471 2010 Australia 59 96 95 – 8 258 India (83 ) 71 508 4 179 679 Indonesia 12 94 116 – (3 ) 219 Mainland China 839 833 683 (7 ) 217 2,565 Ping An 797 – 51 – 188 1,036 Other associates 176 746 392 – – 1,314 Other mainland China (134 ) 87 240 (7 ) 29 215 Malaysia 120 88 194 – (1 ) 401 Singapore 169 87 100 84 84 524 Taiwan 31 36 87 – (7 ) 147 Vietnam (7 ) 50 61 – 7 111 Other 22 201 644 – 131 998 1,162 1,556 2,488 81 615 5,902 weaker external demand, the lagged effects of monetary policy normalisation and the absence in recent years of structural policies and infrastructure investment playing a role in the slowdown. Encouragingly, the government embarked on a reform programme towards the end of the year which helped lift sentiment and stabilise growth. Growth in the Australian economy was uneven in 2012 as it absorbed a mining boom which had the effect of slowing investment in other sectors. For 2012 as a whole, growth was strong at around 3.5%. Unemployment edged up to 5.4%. In response to the global slowdown and to help re-balance growth away from mining and towards the non-mining sectors, the Reserve Bank of Australia reduced its cash rate from 4.25% to 3.00%. Review of performance Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region reported pre-tax profits of US$10.4bn compared with US$7.5bn in 2011, an increase of 40% or 41% on a constant currency basis. 94 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reported profits included a gain on the disposal of our associate, Ping An of US$3.0bn. Our remaining shareholding has been classified as a financial investment (see Note 26 on the Financial Statements). Reported profits also included gains from the sale of the RBWM business in Thailand (US$108m), the GPB business in Japan (US$67m) and our interest in a property company in the Philippines (US$130m). Reported profits in 2011 included an accounting gain of US$181m arising from the dilution of our shareholding in Ping An, offset by a remeasurement loss of US$48m on its consolidation of Ping An Bank (formerly Shenzhen Development Bank). On an underlying basis, which excludes the items described above and the associated operating results, pre-tax profit rose by 2%. This was driven by higher net interest income, notably from Balance Sheet Management in GB&M in mainland China, and strong growth in average lending balances across most of the region, as well as increased profits from our associates in mainland China. These factors were partly offset by adverse fair value movements of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract related to the Ping An sale, the effect of which was offset in 2013 on completion of the transaction, and higher operating expenses, in part due to restructuring costs arising from the ongoing strategic review of our businesses and support functions in the region. Loan impairment charges also rose from a small number of specific corporate impairment charges, but remained low as credit quality remained broadly stable. We maintained our focus on our key priority growth markets in the region. In mainland China, we continued to invest in our branch network and at the end of the year had 141 HSBC China outlets, 20 HSBC rural bank outlets and 46 Hang Seng Bank outlets. We invested a further US$1.7bn in BoCom to maintain our interest of 19.03% in this strategically important associate and reinforce our position as the leading foreign bank in mainland China. In Malaysia, we now have the largest branch network amongst foreign banks and were designated ‘Best Bank’ for the 10th consecutive year by the Asset Triple A Country Awards. In RBWM, we made progress in re-shaping the business in line with our strategy, completing the disposal of the non-strategic business in Thailand and announcing the sale of our life insurance business in Taiwan. With our focus on secured lending, we recorded mortgage growth in mainland China, Singapore, Australia and Malaysia, reflecting the continued strength of the property market and the expansion of our distribution network. In CMB, trade revenues grew as we capitalised on our global network to capture cross-border trade and capital flows, particularly with mainland China. We continued to strengthen our infrastructure to capture the outbound opportunities from mainland China and now have 14 ‘China desks’ established globally to assist customers with their international trade requirements. Significant new mandates in 2012 in CMB and GB&M reflected investment in our Payments and Cash Management infrastructure. We were recognised as ‘Best Domestic Cash Management Bank’ by Euromoney in fourteen countries across the region, ‘Best Overall Cash Management Bank in Asia’ by Global Finance and ‘Best International Trade Bank in China’ by Trade Finance Magazine. In GB&M, we continued to be a key participant in the internationalisation of the renminbi and enhanced our Payments and Cash Management systems with renminbi capabilities. We continued to build our debt and equity capital markets capabilities in key countries in the region and were involved in several significant government and large corporate issues in Australia, Singapore, India and Indonesia. Revenues from the collaboration between CMB and GB&M increased by 13% as we enhanced sales coordination between the global businesses. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income increased by 8%, notably in mainland China from Balance Sheet Management, arising from growth in the debt securities portfolio and improved yields, as well as from increased trade-related and term lending in CMB and GB&M. We grew average deposit balances, notably in GB&M and CMB reflecting new Payments and Cash Management mandates, and in RBWM from deposit acquisition. The benefit of this growth was partly offset by narrower liability spreads reflecting rate cuts and liquidity easing measures by central banks. In RBWM, residential mortgage balances grew, primarily in Singapore, Australia, Malaysia and mainland China, reflecting the continued strength of property markets and expansion of our distribution network. However, net interest income was broadly unchanged due to the effect of the sale of the RBWM business in Thailand and narrower asset spreads in a number of countries attributable to competitive pricing pressures. Net fee income increased by US$29m, primarily in GB&M, from higher fee income from our 95 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) participation in more debt capital markets transactions across the region as we continued to strengthen our capabilities in this area, and lower regulatory fee expenses on Foreign Exchange and Rates transactions in mainland China as volumes reduced. RBWM reported higher income from cards in Australia from increased spending and card issuance and Wealth Management fees in mainland China. The increase from cards was more than offset by the discontinuation of our Premier business in Japan, the sale of our RBWM business in Thailand, and a fall in fund management fees as we saw a move into lower yielding products reflecting investor’s lower risk appetite. Net trading income decreased by 34% compared with 2011, mainly from adverse fair value movements on the contingent forward sale contract of US$553m relating to Ping An (see Note 2b on the Financial Statements). Trading income was also lower, primarily in mainland China due to lower GB&M revenues in Foreign Exchange reflecting reduced volatility. These were partly offset by a net favourable movement as a result of a change in estimation methodology in respect of the valuation adjustments on derivatives. Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$110m in 2012 compared with a net expense of US$19m in 2011. This was driven by net investment gains on assets held by the Insurance business, primarily in Singapore, due to positive equity market movements. To the extent that these investment gains were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Gains less losses from financial investments were US$16m compared with net losses of US$23m in 2011, due to a disposal gain on investments managed by a private equity fund and a gain on the sale of government debt securities in India. Net earned insurance premiums rose by 7% to US$812m as a result of increased renewals and new business volumes in mainland China, Singapore and Taiwan. The growth in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. We reported a Gain on disposal of Ping An, an associate of Mainland China, of US$3.0bn. Our remaining shareholding has been classified as a financial investment. Other operating income increased by US$201m due to gains on the sale of our RBWM business in Thailand of US$108m, our GPB business in Japan of US$67m and our interest in a property company in the Philippines of US$130m. These were partly offset by the non-recurrence of an accounting gain of US$181m arising from the dilution of our shareholding in Ping An in 2011. Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by 22%, driven by net investment gains on the fair value of the assets held to support the policyholder contracts compared with net losses in 2011. In addition, policyholder liabilities were established for new business, reflecting the rise in premiums across mainland China, Singapore and Taiwan. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions increased by US$170m as a result of individually assessed impairments on a single corporate exposure in Australia and a small number of corporate exposures in other countries in the region as well as a credit risk provision on an available-for-sale debt security in GB&M. These were partly offset by an impairment release in Singapore compared with a charge in 2011. Operating expenses increased by 3%, due to restructuring and other related costs of US$131m (2011: US$45m) incurred across several countries as part of the ongoing strategic review of our businesses and support functions in the region. This resulted in a net reduction of approximately 6,000 FTE staff numbers and generated sustainable annual savings of approximately US$200m, which were more than offset by inflationary pressures and investment for business growth, including branch expansion in mainland China. Costs also increased from a litigation provision of US$98m made in respect of a long-standing court case and the write down by US$51m of our interest in a joint venture. Share of profit from associates and joint ventures increased by US$212m, driven by higher profits from BoCom and Industrial Bank which reflected loan growth and higher fee income, partly offset by increased operating expenses and loan impairment charges. The contribution from Ping An reduced due to market valuation losses on equity securities held by their insurance business, which reflected volatile domestic equity markets, partly offset by increased income from the banking business, Ping An Bank. The disposal of Ping An and the dilution of our holding in Industrial Bank, following its issue of additional share capital to third parties on 7 January 2013, are expected to have a significant impact on future profits in the region. 96 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit before tax – Rest of Asia-Pacific 2011asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011at 2012exchange rates US$m 2012asreportedUS$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 5,102 (111 ) 4,991 5,391 6 8 Net fee income 2,111 (57 ) 2,054 2,083 (1 ) 1 Own credit spread26 2 – 2 (3 ) Gains on disposal of Ping An – – – 3,012 Other income27 3,498 (148 ) 3,350 3,101 (11 ) (7 ) Net operating income21 10,713 (316 ) 10,397 13,584 27 31 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (267 ) 1 (266 ) (436 ) (63 ) (64 ) Net operating income 10,446 (315 ) 10,131 13,148 26 30 Operating expenses (5,806 ) 173 (5,633 ) (5,806 ) – (3 ) Operating profit 4,640 (142 ) 4,498 7,342 58 63 Income from associates 2,831 63 2,894 3,106 10 7 Profit before tax 7,471 (79 ) 7,392 10,448 40 41 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – Rest of Asia-Pacific Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 13,584 10,713 27 Currency translation adjustment24 (316 ) Own credit spread26 3 (2 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (3,342 ) (295 ) Underlying revenue 10,245 10,100 1 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (436 ) (267 ) (63 ) Currency translation adjustment24 1 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (2 ) 4 Underlying LICs (438 ) (262 ) (67 ) Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (5,806 ) (5,806 ) – Currency translation adjustment24 173 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 60 96 Underlying operating expenses (5,746 ) (5,537 ) (4 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 56.1% 54.8% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 10,448 7,471 40 Currency translation adjustment24 (79 ) Own credit spread26 3 (2 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (4,048 ) (1,141 ) Underlying profit before tax 6,403 6,249 2 For footnotes, see page 120. 96a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background In mainland China, reducing the pace of consumer price inflation was a key priority for policymakers in the first half of 2011. Monetary conditions were tightened by increasing the reserve requirement ratio to 21.5% for large banks and a number of measures were implemented, focused specifically on reducing demand in the property market. As a result, credit growth slowed in the second half of the year which, coupled with the downturn in global trade, helped to slow the pace of growth and reduce inflationary pressures. The annual rate of inflation peaked at 6.5% in July and eased to around 4% by the year end. Meanwhile, the annual pace of GDP growth slowed from 9.7% in the first quarter to 8.9% in the fourth quarter, bringing the full year GDP growth down to 9.2% in 2011 from 10.4% in 2010. In the final months of the year, the outlook for growth in the eurozone became more of a concern and policymakers reverted to easing monetary and fiscal conditions. Towards the end of 2011, the reserve requirement ratio was cut and a number of fiscal stimulus measures were enacted. Japan’s economy began 2011 strongly, but the earthquake and tsunami in March led to a sharp contraction in output. Japan continued to suffer from deflationary pressures, leading the Bank of Japan to expand its quantitative easing programme. It also intervened in foreign exchange markets to stem the upward pressure on the yen. The Rest of Asia-Pacific region experienced a relatively strong first half, with exports and domestic demand growing robustly, following which growth slowed in the latter months of 2011. The highly trade-dependent economies of South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore experienced the most significant decline in activity. Regional trade was disrupted by the Japanese earthquake in March and floods in the fourth quarter in Thailand, which caused a sharp contraction in the production of critical electronic and car components. As a result, trade expanded at a slower pace in 2011 than in 2010. In a number of economies, notably India and South Korea, domestic demand also slowed markedly in the second half of 2011 after rising inflationary pressures prompted central banks to tighten monetary policy. In Malaysia, domestic demand proved more resilient and the level of GDP in Malaysia in the fourth quarter was 5.2% higher than the level seen a year earlier. Across Asia, inflation peaked in the middle of the year providing policymakers in India, Thailand and Indonesia room to start easing monetary policy. In Australia GDP growth in early 2011 was initially affected by weather-related disruptions, particularly to coal exports. However, activity strengthened and GDP rose by 2.5% in the year to September, predominantly from ongoing investment in the mining sector. Labour market conditions eased during the year, with the unemployment rate rising modestly to 5.2% by the year end. The Reserve Bank of Australia reduced its policy rate in November and December from 4.75% to 4.25%. Review of performance Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region reported pre-tax profits of US$7.5bn compared with US$5.9bn in 2010, an increase of 27%. Reported profits included gains arising from the dilution of HSBC’s shareholding in Ping An following its issue of share capital to third parties in 2010 and 2011 of US$188m and US$181m, respectively. On an underlying basis, excluding these gains, pre-tax profit rose by 23%. The growth in profitability in the region reflected strong lending and deposit growth during 2010 and 2011, mainly in Singapore and mainland China, coupled with widening deposit spreads due to higher interest rates in certain countries, notably India and mainland China. Loan impairment charges improved as a result of the non-recurrence of a number of individual impairments and the reduction of certain unsecured lending portfolios. Costs increased, though to a lesser extent than revenues, to support business expansion, notably in mainland China, and maintain our competitive position in our six strategic markets. The contribution from our associates in mainland China also grew, benefiting from ongoing loan growth and increased income from fee-based revenue streams. We continued to invest in building our franchise in mainland China where the operating profit of our operations more than doubled and we remained the leading foreign bank by network size. In CMB, we increased the coverage of our renminbi trade settlement services to 24 cities within the country, representing the widest geographic coverage among all foreign banks, and offered renminbi capabilities in over 50 countries worldwide. Cross-border referrals between mainland China and the rest of the world grew by 9% compared with 2010 as we capitalised on our international network to capture outbound and inbound trade flows. In GB&M, we focused on leveraging our global connectivity and product capabilities to be the leading international bank of choice for multinational corporations doing business with mainland China and large corporates looking to expand internationally. 96b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit before tax increased in other key countries across the region as we maintained our strategic focus on these markets, particularly in intermediating cross-border trade flows. Trade revenues grew in most of our sites and we were awarded the ‘Best Trade Finance Bank in Asia Pacific’ by FinanceAsia for the fourteenth consecutive year. Trade-related lending grew strongly in Singapore as we continued to enhance our trade finance capabilities. In Malaysia we expanded our branch network through the launch of new Amanah branches. We also experienced strong commercial lending growth in both Malaysia and Indonesia as a result of various marketing campaigns. In India, we were ranked the number one foreign bank by Bloomberg for domestic bonds in 2011 and issued the first and only offshore renminbi bond in the country. As part of our strategic review process, in December 2011 we announced the sale of our private banking operations in Japan and, in January 2012, we announced the sale of our RBWM operations in Thailand. We expect to complete these transactions during 2012. Net interest income increased by 28%. Average lending balances grew most notably in CMB and GB&M, particularly in mainland China, as we captured inbound and outbound trade flows and as demand for credit in the region increased. In RBWM mortgage lending balances rose, notably in Singapore and Australia, driven by competitive product offerings and strong property markets. This was partly offset by continued pressure on asset spreads, most notably in RBWM (particularly in Singapore and Australia), due to competitive pressures and growth in residential mortgage lending at lower spreads. Customer deposit balances rose across most of the region, notably in Payments and Cash Management reflecting our investment in infrastructure as part of a targeted strategy to support growth in customer lending. Deposit spreads increased as interest rates rose in a number of countries, particularly in mainland China and India. Net interest income from Balance Sheet Management was higher than in 2010, reflecting increased interest rates and the widening of onshore US dollar lending spreads in mainland China, and a higher return from short-term lending and growth in the balance sheet in Singapore as we attracted increased customer deposits. Net fee income increased by 4%, primarily from trade-related fees as we targeted asset growth and trade activity, largely in mainland China, Bangladesh and Singapore, supported by marketing activities, customer acquisition and a rise in transactions from existing customers. Card fees rose, notably in Australia from the increased issuance of our co-branded credit cards, higher retail spending, and more customers converting to a higher card status. Net trading income of US$1.7bn was broadly unchanged compared with 2010. Net interest income on trading activities was lower as we progressively reduced our positions in government debt securities following increased market volatility in bond markets, and from growth in structured deposits where the related income is recorded under ‘Net interest income’. This was offset by higher Foreign Exchange trading income due to increased customer transaction volumes resulting from the collaboration between GB&M and CMB and as more clients sought protection from volatility in the markets. Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$18m compared with income of US$29m in 2010. This was due to investment losses on assets held by the insurance business, primarily in Singapore, as a result of negative equity market movements during the second half of 2011. To the extent that these investment losses were attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was a corresponding decrease in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Losses from financial investments were US$23m compared with gains of US$151m in 2010, due to an impairment loss on an equity investment in 2011 in GB&M, lower gains on the disposal of government debt securities across the region and the non-recurrence of a gain on disposal of an equity investment in a Singaporean property company in 2010. Net earned insurance premiums increased by 58% to US$759m as a result of successful sales initiatives, most notably resulting in improved sales of a universal life insurance product targeted at high net worth individuals in Singapore. The growth in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Other operating income increased by US$92m, largely due to a rise in the PVIF asset in Singapore as a result of higher life insurance sales and a net increase from experience and assumption updates. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by 42% to US$267m as a 96c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) result of the non-recurrence of a number of individual loan impairment charges in GB&M on a small number of accounts, coupled with the ongoing reduction of unsecured lending portfolios in India. We remain cautious on the outlook for credit quality and sustained our focus on maintaining high levels of underwriting and asset quality. Operating expenses increased by 8% due to wage inflation which reflected the competitive labour market, along with an increase in average staff numbers, notably in mainland China. Increased business volumes across the region led to higher support costs. Premises and equipment costs also rose in certain countries, reflecting increased rental expenses resulting from lease renewals and new branch openings. Share of profit from associates and joint ventures increased by 22%. The contribution from BoCom rose, driven by strong loan growth, wider deposit spreads following interest rate increases in mainland China and higher fee income, notably from investment banking, settlements and cards. Income from Industrial Bank also increased as a result of strong growth in customer lending, a rise in fee-based revenue and a fall in loan impairment charges. Higher profits from Ping An resulted from strong growth in sales in the insurance business and increased income from the banking business following the acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank in July 2011. Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – Rest of Asia-Pacific31 2010asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011 under- lying US$m Re- ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 3,828 – 165 3,993 5,102 – 5,102 33 28 Net fee income 1,932 – 99 2,031 2,111 – 2,111 9 4 Changes in fair value26 (1 ) 1 – – 2 (2 ) – Other income27 3,473 (188 ) 92 3,377 3,498 (181 ) 3,317 1 (2 ) Net operating income21 9,232 (187 ) 356 9,401 10,713 (183 ) 10,530 16 12 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (439 ) – (24 ) (463 ) (267 ) – (267 ) 39 42 Net operating income 8,793 (187 ) 332 8,938 10,446 (183 ) 10,263 19 15 Operating expenses (5,143 ) – (213 ) (5,356 ) (5,806 ) – (5,806 ) (13 ) (8 ) Operating profit 3,650 (187 ) 119 3,582 4,640 (183 ) 4,457 27 24 Income from associates 2,252 – 108 2,360 2,831 48 2,879 26 22 Profit before tax 5,902 (187 ) 227 5,942 7,471 (135 ) 7,336 27 23 For footnotes, see page 120. 96d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific 2012 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,787 1,396 2,156 102 137 (187 ) 5,391 Net fee income/(expense) 854 499 666 71 (7 ) – 2,083 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 96 188 1,002 67 (592 ) – 761 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities (6 ) (3 ) 100 – 14 187 292 Net trading income/(expense)78 90 185 1,102 67 (578 ) 187 1,053 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (4 ) – (4 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 109 1 (3 ) – 3 – 110 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 109 1 (3 ) – (1 ) – 106 Gains less losses from financial investments (1 ) 2 (10 ) – 25 – 16 Dividend income – – 1 – 4 – 5 Net earned insurance premiums 569 243 – – – – 812 Gain on disposal of Ping An – – – – 3,012 – 3,012 Other operating income 211 64 82 68 1,571 (172 ) 1,824 Total operating income 3,619 2,390 3,994 308 4,163 (172 ) 14,302 Net insurance claims86 (523 ) (195 ) – – – – (718 ) Net operating income21 3,096 2,195 3,994 308 4,163 (172 ) 13,584 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (234 ) (154 ) (48 ) – – – (436 ) Net operating income 2,862 2,041 3,946 308 4,163 (172 ) 13,148 Total operating expenses (2,238 ) (993 ) (1,279 ) (149 ) (1,319 ) 172 (5,806 ) Operating profit 624 1,048 2,667 159 2,844 – 7,342 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 893 1,554 658 – 1 – 3,106 Profit before tax 1,517 2,602 3,325 159 2,845 – 10,448 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 7.3 12.6 16.1 0.8 13.8 50.6 Cost efficiency ratio 72.3 45.2 32.0 48.4 31.7 42.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 46,027 43,968 44,721 3,238 165 138,119 Total assets 55,509 59,123 201,774 12,142 24,534 (10,813 ) 342,269 Customer accounts 63,230 44,865 64,392 11,095 39 183,621 97 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific (continued) 2011 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m GlobalBanking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,838 1,254 1,964 116 123 (193 ) 5,102 Net fee income/(expense) 904 513 621 82 (9 ) – 2,111 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 94 156 1,153 66 (90 ) – 1,379 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities (2 ) 1 76 – 11 193 279 Net trading income/(expense)78 92 157 1,229 66 (79 ) 193 1,658 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – 4 – 4 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value (38 ) 2 1 – 15 – (20 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value (38 ) 2 1 – 19 – (16 ) Gains less losses from financial investments – 2 (25 ) 1 (1 ) – (23 ) Dividend income – – 2 – – – 2 Net earned insurance premiums 493 266 – – – – 759 Other operating income 145 72 75 5 1,592 (178 ) 1,711 Total operating income 3,434 2,266 3,867 270 1,645 (178 ) 11,304 Net insurance claims86 (351 ) (240 ) – – – – (591 ) Net operating income21 3,083 2,026 3,867 270 1,645 (178 ) 10,713 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (222 ) 10 (57 ) 2 – – (267 ) Net operating income 2,861 2,036 3,810 272 1,645 (178 ) 10,446 Total operating expenses (2,409 ) (945 ) (1,268 ) (181 ) (1,181 ) 178 (5,806 ) Operating profit 452 1,091 2,542 91 464 – 4,640 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 1,189 1,155 547 – (60 ) – 2,831 Profit before tax 1,641 2,246 3,089 91 404 – 7,471 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 7.5 10.3 14.1 0.4 1.9 34.2 Cost efficiency ratio 78.1 46.6 32.8 67.0 71.8 54.2 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 40,970 38,404 41,114 3,190 190 123,868 Total assets 54,484 50,688 195,549 12,879 16,616 (12,400 ) 317,816 Customer accounts 60,831 40,423 60,855 11,872 31 174,012 For footnotes, see page 120. 98 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific (continued) 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 1,581 938 1,435 91 55 (272 ) 3,828 Net fee income/(expense) 834 442 611 55 (10 ) – 1,932 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 80 129 967 69 (38 ) – 1,207 Net interest income on trading activities – – 138 – 1 272 411 Net trading income/(expense)78 80 129 1,105 69 (37 ) 272 1,618 Changes in fair value of long- term debt issued and relatedderivatives – – – – (2 ) – (2 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 41 2 (1 ) – (16 ) – 26 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 41 2 (1 ) – (18 ) – 24 Gains less losses from financial investments – 3 51 – 92 – 146 Dividend income – – 1 – – – 1 Net earned insurance premiums 386 62 – – – – 448 Other operating income 109 86 55 1 1,499 (152 ) 1,598 Total operating income 3,031 1,662 3,257 216 1,581 (152 ) 9,595 Net insurance claims86 (324 ) (39 ) – – – – (363 ) Net operating income21 2,707 1,623 3,257 216 1,581 (152 ) 9,232 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (298 ) (19 ) (122 ) – – – (439 ) Net operating income 2,409 1,604 3,135 216 1,581 (152 ) 8,793 Total operating expenses (2,233 ) (799 ) (1,094 ) (135 ) (1,034 ) 152 (5,143 ) Operating profit 176 805 2,041 81 547 – 3,650 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 986 751 447 – 68 – 2,252 Profit before tax 1,162 1,556 2,488 81 615 – 5,902 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 6.1 8.2 13.1 0.4 3.2 31.0 Cost efficiency ratio 82.5 49.2 33.6 62.5 65.4 55.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 37,831 31,423 35,810 3,489 178 108,731 Total assets 49,758 41,588 166,710 12,126 19,450 (11,570 ) 278,062 Customer accounts 54,741 36,943 53,752 12,620 99 158,155 For footnotes, see page 120. 98a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Middle East and North Africa The network of branches of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, together with HSBC’s subsidiaries and associates, gives us the widest coverage in the region. Our associate in Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British Bank (40% owned), is the Kingdom’s sixth largest bank by total assets. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest income 1,470 1,432 1,367 Net fee income 595 627 677 Net trading income 390 482 370 Other income (25 ) 66 (4 ) Net operating income21 2,430 2,607 2,410 LICs76 (286 ) (293 ) (627 ) Net operating income 2,144 2,314 1,783 Total operating expenses (1,166 ) (1,159 ) (1,078 ) Operating profit 978 1,155 705 Income from associates77 372 337 187 Profit before tax 1,350 1,492 892 Cost efficiency ratio 48.0% 44.5% 44.7% RoRWA66 2.2% 2.6% 1.6% Year-end staff numbers 8,765 8,373 8,676 Completed two acquisitions and made progress on the Group’s six filters Approximately US$70m sustainable cost savings from our organisational effectiveness programmes 4th consecutive year: Best Regional Cash Management Provider in the Middle East Euromoney 5th consecutive year: Best Trade Finance Bank in the Middle East and North Africa Global Trade Review 2012 For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background Real GDP in the Middle East and North Africa region grew by an estimated 4.5% in 2012. However, this weighted aggregate figure masked a wide disparity between oil producers (5.1%) and non-oil producers (2.9%). For the Gulf Cooperation Council’s top performers, energy output volumes remained high and revenues rose, fuelling government spending-driven domestic demand which fed through to a stronger non-oil private sector performance, job creation and a recovery in bank lending. Saudi Arabia (which recorded growth of nearly 7% in 2012), Qatar (6%) and Oman (5%) fell into this category. In the UAE, more muted fiscal and monetary stimuli meant overall growth was slower, but Dubai’s export-oriented service sector recorded a good recovery in 2012, and Abu Dhabi picked up in the second half of the year. Despite the strong growth, inflation remained low across the Gulf region. In Egypt, growth remained weak, held back by ongoing political uncertainty which continued to weigh on domestic and foreign investment and consumption. Pressure on public finances and Egypt’s external accounts remained pronounced, with the Egyptian pound weakening significantly. Elsewhere in the oil importing parts of the region, the pressures were not as great, but in Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia, growth fell and their external balances deteriorated, with the latter three, following a significant worsening of public finances, approaching the International Monetary Fund for assistance by the end of the year. Review of performance Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa reported a profit before tax of US$1.4bn, a decrease of 10% compared with 2011. On a constant currency basis, pre-tax profits decreased by 9%. Our reported results in 2012 included an investment loss on a subsidiary of US$85m and adverse movements of US$12m on our own debt designated at fair value resulting from tightening credit spreads, partly offset by gains recognised on acquisitions totalling US$21m. Reported profits in 2011 included a dilution gain of US$27m on our holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd following its merger with SABB Securities Ltd and a loss of US$7m relating to the disposal of our Private Equity business. On an underlying basis, excluding the items noted above, profit before tax decreased by 3% as a result of a small number of significant impairments on GB&M exposures. 99 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses RetailBanking andWealth Management US$m CommercialBankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Egypt 67 71 157 – (5 ) 290 Qatar 9 36 84 – – 129 United Arab Emirates 143 235 141 1 (56 ) 464 Other (27 ) 125 29 – (37 ) 90 MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) 192 467 411 1 (98 ) 973 Saudi Arabia 60 120 170 9 18 377 252 587 581 10 (80 ) 1,350 2011 Egypt 43 55 129 – (2 ) 225 Qatar (4 ) 35 81 – – 112 United Arab Emirates 134 240 200 (6 ) 7 575 Other 17 109 93 – – 219 MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) 190 439 503 (6 ) 5 1,131 Saudi Arabia 57 98 140 4 62 361 247 537 643 (2 ) 67 1,492 2010 Egypt 38 82 77 – (2 ) 195 Qatar 19 52 67 – – 138 United Arab Emirates 17 186 121 1 (1 ) 324 Other 19 57 (19 ) – – 57 MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) 93 377 246 1 (3 ) 714 Saudi Arabia 25 107 53 (16 ) 9 178 118 484 299 (15 ) 6 892 During 2012, we focused on simplifying our operations in the Middle East and North Africa by disposing of non-strategic businesses and continuing to improve our organisational efficiency while investing in strategic acquisitions. We made significant progress in integrating our operations in Oman with OIB following the merger in June 2012. The combined entity, HSBC Bank Oman S.A.O.G., of which we own 51%, is now the third largest bank in the Sultanate. We also completed the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE in the fourth quarter of 2012. Lloyds’ strong presence in expatriate retail banking and commercial banking was a good strategic fit with our position as the leading international bank in the UAE. We also completed the disposal of 80.1% of our Private Equity business in December. We announced in September our agreement to sell our operations in Pakistan and, in October, the restructuring of our Amanah business in the region outside Saudi Arabia. We remained focused on our priority markets, delivering profit growth in Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The strong performance in Egypt was driven by robust deposit growth in RBWM which led to higher net interest income. We also achieved growth in profits from our associates, mainly The Saudi British Bank, which won the Euromoney award for excellence as ‘The Best Bank in Saudi Arabia’ and ‘The Best Debt House in Saudi Arabia’. Although profit before tax declined in the UAE as a result of the impairments in GB&M noted above, it remains a priority market for HSBC and the economy continued to improve in 2012. Delivery of sustainable cost savings remained a priority for 2012. Our organisational effectiveness initiatives included streamlining procedures by delayering our management structure and transferring additional operational processes to our global service centres. We realised about US$70m in sustainable savings from our organisational effectiveness programmes. In RBWM, we remained focused on growing Wealth Management revenues. We entered into a strategic alliance with Zurich Life International (‘Zurich’) in 2012 to provide wealth and general insurance products to our customers in the region. Our focus on foreign exchange resulted in increased transaction volumes, which provided us with higher 100 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Wealth Management revenues for 2012. In addition, we enhanced our internet banking capabilities in the UAE to provide improved security and rolled out our digital solution for mobile banking in the region to allow customers greater accessibility. In CMB, we continued to support internationally oriented SMEs. This was evidenced by the launch of our third SME fund in the UAE of AED1bn (US$272m), targeted at international trade customers. We continued to invest in the Global Trade and Receivables Finance client service and business development teams, and enhanced our Receivables Finance products across the region. We endeavoured to strengthen this position by holding mainland China and Turkey events to focus on these emerging trade routes. Our Payments and Cash Management business continued to record strong revenue growth, and was named ‘The Best Cash Management House in the Middle East 2012’ in the Euromoney awards for excellence for the fourth consecutive year. In GB&M, we continued to focus on ‘South-South’ connectivity. We leveraged our global expertise to provide access to Asian investors for issuers in the region with funding requirements with our dedicated coverage teams on our mainland China, South Korea and India desks in the UAE and Saudi Arabia. We also completed a significant number of bond issuances, reflecting the continuing investor appetite for the region’s debt. We won several Euromoney awards for excellence including ‘The Best Debt House in the Middle East’ and ‘The Best Flow House in the Middle East’. GB&M also won Global Investor’s ‘The Best Domestic Custodian’. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income rose by 3%, driven by higher average deposit balances in RBWM, primarily savings accounts in Egypt, reflecting the competitive pricing introduced at the beginning of the year. Despite this, we benefited from wider spreads as interest rates rose in Egypt. Net interest income in CMB was in line with 2011 as higher income resulting from the merger with OIB was offset by competitive asset pricing across most of the region. Net fee income decreased by 4% due to a decline in credit and lending, Securities Services and advisory fees in GB&M, which were affected by lower levels of deal activity and the challenging political and economic environment. Fees also declined in RBWM due to higher reward scheme charges in the UAE following revisions to the agreement with our partner aimed at improving card utilisation, partly offset by higher insurance revenues as a result of the strategic alliance with Zurich. The decline in fees was also attributable to our exit from domestic private banking in the UAE. These factors were partly offset by higher trade import fees in CMB in Algeria, Oman and Jordan driven by higher volumes from targeted sales activity. Net trading income decreased by 18%, mainly due to unfavourable credit valuation adjustments on trading positions relating to a small number of exposures in GB&M. We also reported adverse fair value movements on certain economic hedges as well as on structured liabilities as credit spreads tightened. This was partly offset by higher revaluation gains on equity holdings in Principal Investments. Gains less losses from financial investments increased by US$17m, driven by the non-recurrence of impairments on two available-for-sale equity securities in 2011, together with gains on the disposal of available-for-sale equity and debt securities in 2012. Other operating income decreased by US$89m, driven by the US$85m investment loss on a subsidiary. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by US$6m. Lower impairments in RBWM attributable to an improvement in delinquency rates reflected the repositioning of the book towards higher quality lending in previous years. In addition, CMB recorded a modest reduction in loan impairment charges as higher customer recoveries were largely offset by individually assessed impairments. These were partly offset by significant loan impairment charges recorded for a small number of large exposures in GB&M. Operating expenses increased by 1% as a result of employee and legal costs relating to the merger of our Omani operations with OIB and the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE. This was partially offset by the benefit arising from sustainable cost saving initiatives implemented in 2011 and throughout 2012. Excluding the effect of the two acquisitions, we reduced both our employee numbers and our cost base. Share of profits from associates and joint ventures increased by 10%, mainly from The Saudi British Bank. This was driven by higher revenue resulting from strong balance sheet growth, together with lower costs derived from effective control and monitoring. 101 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit before tax – Middle East and North Africa 2011asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011at 2012exchange rates US$m 2012asreportedUS$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 1,432 (9 ) 1,423 1,470 3 3 Net fee income 627 (4 ) 623 595 (5 ) (4 ) Own credit spread26 14 – 14 (12 ) Other income27 534 (1 ) 533 377 (29 ) (29 ) Net operating income21 2,607 (14 ) 2,593 2,430 (7 ) (6 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (293 ) 1 (292 ) (286 ) 2 2 Net operating income 2,314 (13 ) 2,301 2,144 (7 ) (7 ) Operating expenses (1,159 ) 6 (1,153 ) (1,166 ) (1 ) (1 ) Operating profit 1,155 (7 ) 1,148 978 (15 ) (15 ) Income from associates 337 – 337 372 10 10 Profit before tax 1,492 (7 ) 1,485 1,350 (10 ) (9 ) For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – Middle East and North Africa Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 2,430 2,607 (7 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (14 ) Own credit spread26 12 (14 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 3 (79 ) Underlying revenue 2,445 2,500 (2 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (286 ) (293 ) 2 Currency translation adjustment24 1 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions – – Underlying LICs (286 ) (292 ) 2 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (1,166 ) (1,159 ) (1 ) Currency translation adjustment24 6 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 15 25 Underlying operating expenses (1,151 ) (1,128 ) (2 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 47.1% 45.1% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 1,350 1,492 (10 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (7 ) Own credit spread26 12 (14 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 18 (54 ) Underlying profit before tax 1,380 1,417 (3 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 101a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background In the Middle East and North Africa region, GDP grew by more than 5% in 2011, though the headline figure masks a wide variance in overall performance and growth drivers. In the oil producing states of the Gulf, high oil prices prompted growth in oil output and encouraged substantial increases in current and capital spending, most notably in Saudi Arabia. The export-oriented service sectors of countries including the UAE also grew robustly, supported in part by firm Asian demand. The aggregate fiscal and current account surpluses of the Gulf Co-operation Council members stood at 15% and 25% of GDP, respectively, significantly higher than in 2010. Despite the pick-up in growth, CPI inflation remained generally muted with slow private sector wage growth and broadly unchanged real estate prices. Regional political uncertainties weighed more heavily on performance elsewhere, however, particularly in countries that were subject to regime change. In Egypt, the level of GDP fell by an estimated 6 percentage points year-on-year as unrest held back investment and service sector exports, particularly tourism, contracted. Increased pressure on public finances and external account balances also added to the challenges for the post-revolution economies. Review of performance Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa reported a profit before tax of US$1.5bn, an increase of US$600m, or 67%. In 2010, we completed the sale of our investment in the British Arab Commercial Bank on which a loss of US$42m was incurred. In 2011, we recorded a dilution gain of US$27m as a result of the reduction of our holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited following its merger with SABB Securities Limited. On an underlying basis, excluding these items, pre-tax profits increased by 57% as significant loan impairment charges in 2010 did not recur and trading income rose. In addition, profits from our associate, The Saudi British Bank, increased significantly driven by a decline in loan impairment charges as the credit environment in Saudi Arabia improved. Despite political unrest and economic pressures, profits increased in all countries with the exception of Qatar, which was adversely affected by new regulations on foreign banks which curtailed growth in certain products, and Jordan, where we incurred a specific loan impairment charge related to a corporate customer. Customer deposits across the region grew by 10%, reflecting the overall resilience of the oil-based regional economies and the strength of the HSBC brand. We initiated a number of strategic programmes to optimise and reconfigure our branch network. This resulted in branch closures and consolidations in Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar and Bahrain together with an exit from our retail operations in Kuwait and part of our Principal Investments business. We also reconfigured domestic private banking in the UAE in order to focus solely on international private banking products and services through the conversion of the existing operation into a representative office for GPB. In RBWM, we continued to focus on wealth management and secured lending, while building long-term relationships through our Premier and Advance customer offerings. During 2011, we implemented new technologies to improve our financial planning capabilities. We also successfully launched mobile banking in the UAE, Oman, Bahrain and Jordan allowing customers to access HSBC Internet Banking instantly through smart phones. In CMB, we continued to strengthen our position as a leading international trade and business bank, achieving double-digit trade-related growth year-on-year and increasing market share in key markets. We also launched services to support settlements in renminbi to further facilitate trade between mainland China and the region. In the UAE, we entered into partnerships with a number of Free Trade Zones to provide improved access to banking services for internationally-oriented SMEs. In Payments and Cash Management, we launched ‘ClientSphere’, a system which will further simplify cash management products and improve the overall customer experience. We also won a number of awards, including ‘Best Overall Bank for Cash Management in the Middle East’ from Global Finance Awards and ‘Best Cash Management Bank in the Middle East’ from Euromoney. Greater collaboration between CMB and GB&M benefited both businesses with a significant increase in GB&M-related revenues from 2010. In GB&M, we continued to focus on our key clients and used our global expertise and reach both to complete a number of cross-border deals for regional clients and provide risk management solutions tailored for customer needs, including Islamic products. We won a number of awards, 101b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) including ‘Best for Middle Eastern Currencies’ in the Euromoney FX survey and ‘Best Risk Advisor in Middle East’ from Euromoney. We continued to be recognised as a leading provider of Islamic financial services and we were awarded ‘Best Islamic Investment Bank, Middle East’ and ‘Sukuk House of the Year’ from The Asset Magazine Triple A Islamic Finance Awards. Net interest income rose by 6%, driven by strong growth in average trade lending balances in the second half of 2010 and throughout 2011 in CMB as we leveraged opportunities to support global and intra-regional trade flows. GB&M also benefited from the restructuring of a large customer facility along with improved spreads on investment portfolios. This was partly offset by a reduction in spreads in CMB as we priced competitively to drive volume growth. In addition, average lending balances declined in RBWM as unsecured lending portfolios continued to be managed down and replaced by higher quality lending resulting in an overall improvement in the credit quality of the portfolio. Central bank regulations limiting interest rates on certain products in Qatar also contributed to lower net interest income. Net fee income decreased by 7%, despite higher trade volumes in CMB, as lower institutional equity activity in GB&M reflected the challenging political environment. In addition, net fee income in RBWM decreased due to a decline in the number of credit cards in issue as certain portfolios were managed down, along with lower late fees as a result of an improvement in delinquency rates. Trading income increased by 31%, mainly in Rates in GB&M due to an increase in government bond trading along with a net release of credit valuation adjustments driven by movements in exchange rates and an improvement in counterparty risk. A greater focus on sales of GB&M products to CMB customers, notably foreign exchange, also contributed to the rise in trading income. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased markedly as the significant loan impairment charges which resulted from restructuring activity for a small number of large GB&M customers in 2010 did not recur. In addition, lower loan impairment charges in RBWM reflected a significant improvement in delinquency rates, which resulted from a repositioning of the loan book towards higher quality lending as we continued to manage down higher risk unsecured lending, together with strengthened collection practices. Our lending portfolios were not significantly adversely affected by political instability in the region, although uncertainties remain in certain of these markets. Operating expenses increased by 8% due to an increase in staff costs as we enhanced the employee base, and to a lesser extent, in line with inflation. Strategic programmes, including de-layering our management structure, streamlining our business processes and implementing the ‘hub and spoke’ model to drive future sustainable cost savings, resulted in lower staff numbers than last year. This resulted in restructuring costs of US$31m. Marketing costs also rose as we increased investment in the promotion of the HSBC brand. Profit from associates and joint ventures increased by 81%, mainly from The Saudi British Bank, driven by a decline in loan impairment charges as the credit environment in Saudi Arabia improved, along with cost control. 101c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – Middle East and North Africa31 2010asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011 under- lying US$m Re- ported change25 % Under- lying change25 % Net interest income 1,367 – (12 ) 1,355 1,432 – 1,432 5 6 Net fee income 677 – (4 ) 673 627 – 627 (7 ) (7 ) Own credit spread26 – – – – 14 (14 ) – – – Other income27 366 42 (3 ) 405 534 (27 ) 507 46 25 Net operating income21 2,410 42 (19 ) 2,433 2,607 (41 ) 2,566 8 5 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (627 ) – 2 (625 ) (293 ) – (293 ) 53 53 Net operating income 1,783 42 (17 ) 1,808 2,314 (41 ) 2,273 30 26 Operating expenses (1,078 ) – 8 (1,070 ) (1,159 ) – (1,159 ) (8 ) (8 ) Operating profit 705 42 (9 ) 738 1,155 (41 ) 1,114 64 51 Income from associates 187 – (1 ) 186 337 – 337 80 81 Profit before tax 892 42 (10 ) 924 1,492 (41 ) 1,451 67 57 For footnotes, see page 120. 101d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Middle East and North Africa 2012 RetailBanking andWealthManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 597 492 367 1 42 (29 ) 1,470 Net fee income/(expense) 164 279 160 1 (9 ) – 595 Trading income excluding net interest income 68 94 208 – 3 – 373 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities – 2 30 – (44 ) 29 17 Net trading income/(expense)78 68 96 238 – (41 ) 29 390 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value – – – – (12 ) – (12 ) Gains less losses from financial investments – – 9 – – – 9 Dividend income – – 5 – – – 5 Other operating income/ (expense) (16 ) 21 14 1 47 (94 ) (27 ) Total operating income 813 888 793 3 27 (94 ) 2,430 Net insurance claims86 – – – – – – – Net operating income21 813 888 793 3 27 (94 ) 2,430 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (55 ) (110 ) (119 ) (2 ) – – (286 ) Net operating income 758 778 674 1 27 (94 ) 2,144 Total operating expenses (561 ) (311 ) (264 ) – (124 ) 94 (1,166 ) Operating profit/(loss) 197 467 410 1 (97 ) – 978 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 55 120 171 9 17 – 372 Profit/(loss) before tax 252 587 581 10 (80 ) – 1,350 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 1.2 2.8 2.8 – (0.3 ) 6.5 Cost efficiency ratio 69.0 35.0 33.3 – 459.3 48.0 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 5,828 13,559 8,699 – – 28,086 Total assets 6,562 15,651 36,582 50 6,840 (3,080 ) 62,605 Customer accounts 19,802 12,826 6,880 3 72 39,583 102 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 RetailBanking andWealthManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 589 496 371 2 2 (28 ) 1,432 Net fee income/(expense) 173 271 173 13 (3 ) – 627 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 62 95 266 1 (1 ) – 423 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities – – 32 – (1 ) 28 59 Net trading income/(expense)78 62 95 298 1 (2 ) 28 482 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value – – – – 10 – 10 Gains less losses from financial investments 1 1 (7 ) – (3 ) – (8 ) Dividend income 1 1 3 – – – 5 Other operating income/ (expense) 22 11 11 (1 ) 124 (108 ) 59 Total operating income 848 875 849 15 128 (108 ) 2,607 Net insurance claims86 – – – – – – – Net operating income21 848 875 849 15 128 (108 ) 2,607 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (126 ) (116 ) (51 ) – – – (293 ) Net operating income 722 759 798 15 128 (108 ) 2,314 Total operating expenses (535 ) (320 ) (295 ) (21 ) (96 ) 108 (1,159 ) Operating profit/(loss) 187 439 503 (6 ) 32 – 1,155 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 60 98 140 4 35 – 337 Profit/(loss) before tax 247 537 643 (2 ) 67 – 1,492 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 1.1 2.5 2.9 – 0.3 6.8 Cost efficiency ratio 63.1 36.6 34.7 140.0 75.0 44.5 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 4,921 12,446 8,479 26 3 25,875 Total assets 6,549 14,556 34,676 72 4,792 (3,181 ) 57,464 Customer accounts 18,549 10,943 6,703 114 113 36,422 For footnotes, see page 120. 103 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Middle East and North Africa (continued) 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 553 473 334 – 14 (7 ) 1,367 Net fee income 200 258 202 17 – – 677 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 59 85 205 1 (7 ) – 343 Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities 1 7 18 – (6 ) 7 27 Net trading income/(expense)78 60 92 223 1 (13 ) 7 370 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value – – – – – – – Gains less losses from financial investments 1 – (3 ) – (1 ) – (3 ) Dividend income 2 1 4 – – – 7 Other operating income/ (expense) 27 (8 ) (1 ) 1 40 (67 ) (8 ) Total operating income 843 816 759 19 40 (67 ) 2,410 Net insurance claims86 – – – – – – – Net operating income21 843 816 759 19 40 (67 ) 2,410 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (227 ) (145 ) (255 ) – – – (627 ) Net operating income 616 671 504 19 40 (67 ) 1,783 Total operating expenses (524 ) (297 ) (263 ) (18 ) (43 ) 67 (1,078 ) Operating profit/(loss) 92 374 241 1 (3 ) – 705 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 26 110 58 (16 ) 9 – 187 Profit/(loss) before tax 118 484 299 (15 ) 6 – 892 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 0.6 2.6 1.6 (0.1 ) – 4.7 Cost efficiency ratio 62.2 36.4 34.7 94.7 107.5 44.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 5,063 12,293 7,247 21 2 24,626 Total assets 6,286 13,991 31,253 59 4,129 (2,961 ) 52,757 Customer accounts 17,538 10,319 5,306 290 58 33,511 For footnotes, see page 120. 103a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) North America Our North American businesses are located in the US, Canada and Bermuda. Operations in the US are primarily conducted through HSBC Bank USA, N.A., and HSBC Finance, a national consumer finance company. HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. is the intermediate holding company of, inter alia, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda operate in their respective countries. 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Net interest income 8,117 11,480 12,439 Net fee income 2,513 3,308 3,664 Net trading income/(expense) 507 (362 ) 314 Gains on disposals of US branch network and cards business 4,012 – – Other income/(expense) (456 ) 1,574 630 Net operating income21 14,693 16,000 17,047 LICs76 (3,457 ) (7,016 ) (8,295 ) Net operating income 11,236 8,984 8,752 Total operating expenses (8,940 ) (8,919 ) (8,322 ) Operating profit 2,296 65 430 Income from associates77 3 35 24 Profit before tax 2,299 100 454 Cost efficiency ratio 60.8% 55.7% 48.8% RoRWA66 0.8% – 0.1% Year-end staff numbers 22,443 30,981 33,865 Gross balances in the CML portfolio, including loans held for sale, down by US$6.8bn to US$43bn US$3.6bn reduction in loan impairment charges, including US$1.3bn relating to Card and Retail Services Record reported pre-tax profit of US$1.1bn from our Canadian operations For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background In the US, real GDP expanded by 2.2% in 2012, following 1.8% growth in 2011. Consumer spending increased at a moderate pace as households continued to pay down debt and rebuild wealth. The housing market improved in 2012. Residential investment rose by 11.9%, climbing from a multi-decade low in 2011. Sales of new and existing homes also increased, and house prices rose modestly during the year. The growth in fixed investment by business faltered in the middle of 2012, evidenced by a slowdown in capital equipment orders, but began to recover towards the end of the year. Export growth slowed to 3.2% in 2012, about half the growth recorded in 2011. Fiscal consolidation continued to hold back the economy. Budgetary caps on spending contributed to a 2.2% decline in federal government expenditure in 2012, in real terms. State and local government expenditure also continued to contract, though the severity of the cutbacks diminished compared with 2011. Inflation was generally subdued in 2012. Headline and core CPI inflation for the year were each recorded at 2.1%. High unemployment and low wage growth continued to hold back labour costs. In addition, prices for goods imported into the US experienced very little inflation in 2012. The Federal Reserve continued to pursue a highly supportive monetary policy. At meetings in January, September, and December, the Federal Open Market Committee adjusted its forward guidance for an exceptionally low federal funds rate and agreed on open-ended purchases of longer-term securities in an effort to maintain downward pressure on interest rates, support mortgage markets and help make broader financial conditions more accommodating. In Canada, GDP growth slowed in 2012 to 2.0% from 2.6% in 2011. The slowdown in economic activity was particularly notable in the second half of the year. One factor contributing to the slowdown, which took effect in July 2012, was the introduction of measures by the federal government to cool the housing market by tightening mortgage lending conditions. House prices, home sales and housing starts declined after those initiatives came into force. In addition, exports fell sharply with the deceleration in global manufacturing activity and global trade, and temporary disruptions in energy production in Eastern Canada and capacity constraints on Western Canada pipelines. An uncertain US economic outlook together with weakness in key Canadian commodity prices and a sharp decline in corporate performance 104 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses RetailBanking andWealth Management US$m CommercialBankingUS$m GlobalBankingand Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 US 2,746 637 661 72 (2,901 ) 1,215 Canada 207 577 314 (1 ) (16 ) 1,081 Bermuda 42 (15 ) (18 ) 1 (7 ) 3 2,995 1,199 957 72 (2,924 ) 2,299 2011 US (2,861 ) 431 567 83 782 (998 ) Canada 147 545 265 – 8 965 Bermuda 49 26 43 7 9 134 Other – – – – (1 ) (1 ) (2,665 ) 1,002 875 90 798 100 2010 US (2,305 ) 402 1,284 113 (39 ) (545 ) Canada 131 505 227 – 4 867 Bermuda 58 32 38 (3 ) 7 132 Other – – – 1 (1 ) – (2,116 ) 939 1,549 111 (29 ) 454 weighed on business investment. Headline CPI inflation fell steadily through the year to 1.5%, from 2.9% in 2011. Though the Bank of Canada slightly tightened monetary policy early in 2012, the economic slowdown and the decline in the rate of CPI inflation led the Bank to leave rates on hold throughout the year. Review of performance Our operations in North America reported a profit before tax of US$2.3bn in 2012, compared with US$100m in 2011. Our reported profits included gains in the US of US$3.1bn and US$864m on completion of the sale of the Card and Retail Services business in May 2012 and the 195 non-strategic retail branches in May and August 2012, respectively. Also included in our reported profits was US$618m relating to profit before tax in Card and Retail Services prior to the disposal (2011: US$2.1bn). In addition, we recorded a gain of US$83m from the sale of the full service retail brokerage business in Canada. We also recognised US$1.2bn of adverse movements on our own debt designated at fair value resulting from tightening in credit spreads, compared with favourable movements of US$964m in 2011. On an underlying basis, our pre-tax loss of US$1.5bn in 2012 compared with a pre-tax loss of US$3.1bn in 2011. This was due to lower loan impairment charges, primarily in CML, reflecting a decline in lending balances as the portfolio continued to run off, lower delinquency levels, and higher revenue mainly driven by lower adverse movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Finance. This was partly offset by higher operating expenses due to fines and penalties paid of US$1.5bn by HNAH and its subsidiaries as part of the settlement of investigations into inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering laws in the past. Underlying profit before tax in Canada rose, as revenues benefited from an increase in fees from commercial lending activities and collaboration with GB&M, higher Rates revenue due to increased trading volumes, and higher revenues in Balance Sheet Management reflecting an increase in gains on sales of available-for-sale assets. These results were partly offset by lower net interest income due to the closure of the Canadian consumer finance company to new business, spread compression from strong competition and the prolonged low interest rate environment. Our operations in Bermuda reported a significantly reduced profit before tax, primarily due to higher loan impairment charges on a small number of exposures in GB&M and CMB. We made significant progress in disposing of businesses not aligned with our long-term strategy. On completing the sale of our US Card and Retail Services business, we transferred over 5,000 employees and certain real estate facilities to the purchaser. In addition, we entered into a transition services agreement to support some of the account servicing operations until all systems, processes and equipment are integrated into the purchaser’s 105 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) existing infrastructure. We also completed the sale of the retail branches, principally in upstate New York, recognising gains of US$586m in RBWM and US$278m in CMB. In Canada, we completed the sale of the full service retail brokerage business. We also announced the closure of our consumer finance business, which had net customer loan balances of US$1.5bn at 31 December 2012, and ceased the origination of loans as this business did not fit with our core strategy. We continued to manage the run-off of lending balances in our CML portfolio and, in the third quarter of 2012, we reclassified non-real estate personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, net of impairment allowances, from our CML portfolio to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively marketed the portfolio. We also identified real estate secured loan balances, with a carrying amount of US$3.8bn, which, as part of our strategy, we have announced we plan to actively market in multiple transactions over the next two years. At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of the non-real estate and the real estate secured loans which we intend to sell was approximately US$1bn greater than their estimated fair value. We expect to recognise a loss on sale for these loans over the next few years, the actual amount of which will depend on market conditions at the time of the sales. It is expected that reduction in these loans in our CML portfolio will be capital accretive and will reduce funding requirements, accelerate the winding down of the portfolio and also alleviate some of the operational burdens, given that these loans are servicing intensive and subject to foreclosure delays. At 31 December 2012, lending balances in CML, including loans held for sale, were US$43bn, a decline of 14% from December 2011, of which 8% was attributable to the balances written off. We incurred costs of US$221m in 2012 (2011: US$235m) as a result of restructuring activities in the region. These costs were mainly related to the business disposals, the closure of our consumer finance operations in Canada and the continuation of our organisational effectiveness initiatives. We also achieved approximately US$230m of additional sustainable cost savings in 2012, primarily derived from operational efficiencies. Following the disposals noted above, we are reshaping our US operations to focus on core activities and are continuing to reposition our businesses in both the US and Canada towards international customers. In RBWM, we continued to develop our Wealth Management capabilities across the region, targeting internationally connected customers in key US and Canadian urban centres. Our relationship-based model offers a suite of wealth services incorporating HSBC and third-party products, enabling our internationally-minded customers to invest in global markets. In the US, we launched a renminbi fixed income fund to provide investors with the opportunity to access mainland China’s bond market. In CMB, we increased the number of relationship managers and specialist sales staff in 2012 in areas with strong international connectivity, notably the West Coast, South East and Midwest of the US, leading to higher lending balances than in 2011. In Canada, we introduced the first renminbi currency account. We also established dedicated sales teams to enhance CMB’s collaboration with GB&M. In addition, in CMB and GB&M, we continued to target companies with international banking requirements, leading to a rise in Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenues in both the US and Canada. In GB&M, we continued to work on delivering integrated solutions for our customers across the region, increasing our lending to Latin American corporates. In addition, we actively reduced our legacy credit exposure in the US by exiting certain positions. We will continue to reduce the size of this portfolio as opportunities arise. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income decreased by 29% to US$8.1bn, due to the loss of income from the Card and Retail Services business together with the continued reduction of the CML portfolio in run-off. Also contributing to the decrease was a change in composition of our lending book towards higher levels of lower yielding real estate loans. Net fee income decreased by 24% to US$2.5bn, primarily due to the sale of the Card and Retail Services business, the retail branches and the full service retail brokerage business in Canada. This was partly offset by fees from the transition service agreement with the purchaser of the Card and Retail Services business and increased revenues from debt capital markets origination activity due to the strong debt issuance market. Net trading income of US$507m was US$871m higher than in 2011, primarily due to lower adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in 106 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) RBWM as long-term interest rates declined to a lesser extent than in 2011. This was partly offset by an increase from US$92m in 2011 to US$134m in 2012 of loss provisions for mortgage loan repurchase obligations related to loans previously sold. Net trading income increased in GB&M during 2012 as a result of the improved performance of economic hedges used to manage interest rate risk, which benefited from a more stable interest rate environment. Rates revenue was higher due to increased trading volumes. In addition, credit market conditions generally reflected tighter credit spreads, which led to higher income from our credit-related products. These factors were partly offset by adverse fair value movements on structured liabilities as own credit spreads tightened, together with the closure of our bank notes business in 2011, and a reduction in foreign exchange revenue as a result of lower trading volumes in less volatile markets. Net loss from financial instruments designated at fair value was US$1.2bn compared with net gains of US$964m in 2011. We recognised adverse fair value movements on our own debt designated at fair value as credit spreads tightened during 2012, having widened in 2011. In addition, there were adverse fair value movements from interest rate ineffectiveness in the economic hedging of our long-term debt during the year. Gains on disposal of US branch network and cards business included a gain of US$3.1bn from the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and US$864m from the sale of 195 retail branches in upstate New York. Other operating income increased by US$176m to US$405m, reflecting lower losses on foreclosed properties due to the reduction in foreclosure activity, less deterioration in housing prices during 2012 and, in some markets, improvements in pricing compared with 2011. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by 51% to US$3.5bn, mainly in the US, reflecting lower lending balances in CML as we continued to run off the portfolio, and lower delinquency levels. Loan impairment charges remained adversely affected by delays in expected cash flows from mortgage loans due, in part, to delays in foreclosure processing and the higher costs to obtain and realise collateral, although the effects were less pronounced than in 2011. In addition, loan impairment charges declined by US$1.3bn due to the sale of the Card and Retail Services business. These decreases were partly offset by an adjustment made following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 2012 which concluded that the estimated average period of time from current status to write-off was ten months for real estate loans (previously a period of seven months was used). In CMB and GB&M, loan impairment charges increased, mainly in Bermuda, due to individually assessed impairments on a small number of exposures. Credit quality in Canada remained broadly unchanged. Operating expenses increased by less than 1% to US$8.9bn, primarily due to a US$1.5bn charge for the settlement of investigations noted above. Compliance costs increased by US$307m, mainly due to investment in process enhancements and infrastructure related to anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act consent orders, along with actions to address the regulatory consent orders relating to foreclosure activities. In addition, following a review of our mortgage foreclosure process, we entered into an agreement in principle with US regulators to pay into a fund and provide other customer assistance to help eligible borrowers who were active in foreclosure during 2009 and 2010 and were financially disadvantaged during the process, for which we recognised a US$104m expense in 2012. These increases were partly offset by the effect of the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and organisational effectiveness initiatives to reduce costs as we achieved approximately US$230m of additional sustainable cost savings primarily derived from operational efficiencies. Average employee numbers decreased from organisational effectiveness initiatives and business disposals. In addition, marketing costs fell and costs of holding foreclosed properties declined, while software impairment charges in 2011 did not recur. 107 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit before tax – North America 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012exchange rates US$m 2012 asreportedUS$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 11,480 (17 ) 11,463 8,117 (29 ) (29 ) Net fee income 3,308 (7 ) 3,301 2,513 (24 ) (24 ) Own credit spread26 970 – 970 (1,090 ) Gains on disposal of US branch network and cards business – – – 4,012 Other income27 242 – 242 1,141 371 371 Net operating income21 16,000 (24 ) 15,976 14,693 (8 ) (8 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (7,016 ) 1 (7,015 ) (3,457 ) 51 51 Net operating income 8,984 (23 ) 8,961 11,236 25 25 Operating expenses (8,919 ) 9 (8,910 ) (8,940 ) – – Operating profit 65 (14 ) 51 2,296 3,432 4,402 Income from associates 35 – 35 3 (91 ) (91 ) Profit before tax 100 (14 ) 86 2,299 2,199 2,573 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – North America Year ended 31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Change% Revenue21 Reported revenue 14,693 16,000 (8 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (24 ) Own credit spread26 1,090 (970 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (5,924 ) (6,001 ) Underlying revenue 9,859 9,005 9 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (3,457 ) (7,016 ) 51 Currency translation adjustment24 1 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 324 1,599 Underlying LICs (3,133 ) (5,416 ) 42 Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (8,940 ) (8,919 ) – Currency translation adjustment24 9 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 712 2,210 Underlying operating expenses (8,228 ) (6,700 ) (23 ) Underlying cost efficiency ratio 83.5% 74.4% Profit/(loss) before tax Reported profit before tax 2,299 100 2,199 Currency translation adjustment24 (14 ) Own credit spread26 1,090 (970 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (4,888 ) (2,192 ) Underlying loss before tax (1,499 ) (3,076 ) 51 For footnotes, see page 120. 107a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background In the US, GDP expanded by 3.0% in 2010 and the adoption of stimulative tax policies at the end of that year suggested an even faster rate of growth in 2011. However, this failed to materialise for a number of reasons. The first was the adoption of fiscal austerity by state and local governments. Second, the sharp rise in crude oil prices in the first half of 2011 dampened both business and consumer spending. By the second quarter of 2011, average crude oil prices were 50% higher than the levels a year earlier. The third development concerned the disruption to motor vehicle production caused by parts shortages arising from the Japanese earthquake. Finally, financial market turmoil caused by the eurozone debt crisis and the debt ceiling debate in Washington adversely affected business and consumer confidence. The housing market remained weak, although there were some tentative signs of recovery towards the end of the year, albeit from a very low level. As a result, GDP rose by only 1.7% in 2011. US headline inflation increased during 2011 with the annual rate of CPI inflation rising to 3.1% compared with 1.7% in 2010, but core inflation remained subdued. The labour market recovery continued to be lacklustre; employment grew roughly 0.6% in 2011 following a decline of the same magnitude in 2010. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5% in December 2011, down from 9.6% in 2010, but much of the decline can be attributed to a fall in labour force participation. The Federal Reserve remained focused on countering deflationary pressures; it committed itself to keeping the Fed funds rate in a range of 0 to 0.25% until at least mid-2013 and, in September, with the intention of exerting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, it decided to extend the average maturity of its securities portfolio by selling US$400bn of short-term Treasury securities and buying an equivalent amount of longer-term Treasury securities in their place. These moves helped stabilise financial asset prices in the final quarter of the year. The annual rate of GDP growth in Canada slowed in 2011 to 2.4% from 3.2% in 2010. Slower economic growth in the US and other export partners in Europe held back the rate of growth and a slowdown in the pace of job creation dampened the growth of consumer spending as well. Higher energy prices contributed to a rise in inflation, leading to an increase in the annual rate of core CPI inflation to 2.9% from 1.8% the year before. The Bank of Canada held its policy interest rate steady at 1.0% in 2011. Review of performance Our operations in North America reported a profit before tax of US$100m in 2011, compared with US$454m in 2010, a decrease of 78%. Reported profits included favourable movements on our own debt designated at fair value of US$970m resulting from changes in credit spreads, compared with favourable movements of US$142m and a gain of US$66m on the sale of our stake in the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank in 2010. On an underlying basis, which excludes the above, we reported a pre-tax loss of US$870m in 2011 compared with a profit before tax of US$285m in 2010. Our 2011 North America results continued to be affected by the pace of recovery of the US economy, in particular the decline in house prices and high levels of unemployment, as well as the impact of proposed regulatory changes and ongoing compliance initiatives. We expect these factors, as well as the ongoing delays in foreclosure processes, to continue to affect our results going forward. The reduction in our underlying profit was partly attributable to a decline in GB&M driven by higher costs, mainly from compliance and remediation, lower releases of collective loan impairment allowances and reduced trading income, which in part reflected the non-recurrence of price appreciation on assets in the legacy credit portfolio. In our consumer finance portfolios, revenue continued to decline following the reduction in lending balances, and adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges increased reflecting lower long-term US interest rates. However, these effects were partly offset by a corresponding decline in loan impairment charges. Performance in the second half of 2011 deteriorated, driven by an increase in adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges as US long-term interest rates declined reflecting increased concerns regarding the pace of US economic recovery and ongoing eurozone concerns. In addition, there was a marked rise in loan impairment charges in our run-off portfolio, reflecting deterioration in delinquency rates, and higher estimated costs to obtain and realise collateral, both related to the industry-wide delays in foreclosure processing. Our Canadian business continued to perform strongly during 2011. Profit before tax increased by 4% to US$955m driven by improved credit quality in our CMB business, while in GB&M, higher 107b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) pre-tax profits were driven by a rise in revenue from Balance Sheet Management. In 2011, we made significant progress in our strategy for our North American businesses. In the second half of 2011, we announced the sale of our Card and Retail Services business to Capital One Financial Group, which we expect to complete in the first half of 2012. We also announced the sale of 195 non-strategic branches, principally in upstate New York, to First Niagara Bank, N.A. We expect this transaction to close in stages, commencing in the second quarter of 2012. These transactions remain subject to regulatory approval. In addition, we announced the disposal of our Canadian investment advisory business and sold our private equity businesses in the US and Canada as well as the cessation of life insurance manufacturing in the US, with effect from January 2012. The results of our Card and Retail Services business can be seen on page 110. We expect the sale of this business to have a significant impact on both the revenue and profitability of our North America operations going forward. In 2011, we incurred charges of US$236m (2010: US$13m) associated with restructuring activities in North America which included the impairment of software development costs. In addition we reduced the size of many of our support functions to correspond to the reduced scale of our operations in the region. During 2011 we achieved about US$240m of sustainable savings. In RBWM, we remained focused on managing down the residual balances in our run-off CML portfolio. We also continued to direct efforts towards the expansion of wealth management and Premier propositions. In our CMB and GB&M businesses, we continued to proactively target companies that trade and invest internationally. In 2011, we increased the number of CMB relationship managers in areas with strong international connectivity, including the US West Coast, Texas, Florida and central Canada. We grew revenue from the sale of GB&M products to CMB customers and, in GB&M, we continued to interconnect our operations across the Americas to deliver more integrated solutions for our customers. Net interest income declined by 8% to US$11.5bn, primarily due to lower lending balances in HSBC Finance resulting from the continued run-off of the residual balances in the CML portfolio, as well as the sale of our vehicle finance portfolio in 2010. In Card and Retail Services, lower net interest income reflected a reduction in lending balances despite higher customer spending, as our customers continued to reduce outstanding credit card debt. It was also affected by lower yields due to the effects of the US Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act (‘CARD Act’), which included restrictions on the repricing of delinquent accounts. These reductions were partly offset by a fall in our cost of funds. Net interest income from Balance Sheet Management activities increased compared with 2010, largely driven by an increase in securities holdings in the US investment portfolio, and favourable positioning for interest rate movements in Canada. Net fee income fell by 10% to US$3.3bn reflecting the closure of our Taxpayer Financial Services business and the sale of our vehicle finance loan portfolio and loan servicing platform in 2010. In our Card and Retail Services business fee income reduced, driven by lower late and overlimit fees reflecting reduced delinquencies and fewer accounts, as well as the effect of customers actively seeking to reduce credit card debt and the CARD Act. In addition, fee expense rose as revenue-share payments to our credit card partners increased as improved portfolio performance resulted in increased cash flows. The decline in net fee income was partly offset by a reduction in fees written off reflecting lower fees billed to our customers and improved credit quality. Net trading expense of US$362m compared with net trading income of US$319m in 2010, primarily driven by an increase in adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges used to economically hedge floating rate debt issued by HSBC Finance. This was due to a decrease in long-term US interest rates, reflecting heightened concerns regarding the pace of US economic recovery and the ongoing eurozone crisis. These rates declined to a greater extent than in 2010, resulting in adverse fair value movements of US$1.1bn in 2011 compared with US$353m in 2010. In GB&M, trading income declined by 29% as revenue in the legacy credit portfolio was adversely affected by the non-recurrence of price appreciation on assets, as well as a 2010 gain from a legal settlement of US$89m relating to certain loans previously purchased for resale from a third party which did not recur, and the exit from the Bank Notes business in 2010. This decline was partly offset by a rise in foreign exchange and metals revenue, reflecting greater client activity and increased price volatility resulting from global 107c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) economic uncertainty. Metals revenue also benefited from a rally in precious metal prices. In addition, growth in revenue from Rates was driven by an increase in new deal activity. In RBWM, charges for loan repurchase obligations relating to loans previously sold fell from US$341m to US$92m. Gains less losses from financial investments increased by 82% following the sale of available-for-sale debt securities in the Balance Sheet Management portfolio. These transactions were undertaken to manage portfolio risk and duration. Other operating income increased by 37% to US$226m due to the non-recurrence of losses on the sale of our vehicle finance loan portfolio in 2010. This was partly offset by adverse movements in the PVIF asset within the insurance business reflecting assumption updates, including an increase in expected expense rates and updates to mortality, as well as the non-recurrence of a US$56m gain on the sale of our New York headquarters in 2010. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions decreased by 16% to US$7.0bn, the lowest reported level since 2006. Loan impairment charges in the CML portfolio fell reflecting the continued run-off, partly offset by higher costs to obtain collateral and delays in the timing of expected cash flows from our real estate secured portfolio as a result of the delays in processing foreclosures. Loan impairment charges increased in the second half of 2011 following a deterioration in delinquency and the adverse effects of the continued disruption to foreclosures. We anticipate delinquency and write-off levels in the CML portfolio will remain under pressure in 2012 as the US economic environment continues to affect our business, as well as from foreclosure delays. The magnitude of these trends will largely be dependent on economic recovery, including unemployment rates and improvements in the housing market. In our Card and Retail Services business, loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions declined by 26% to US$1.6bn driven by lower lending balances and improved delinquency rates as overall credit quality improved. Further commentary on delinquency trends in the US RBWM portfolios is provided in ‘credit quality of personal lending in the US’ on page 151. In CMB, loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions declined by 68%, with significant reductions in both Canada and the US. This was mainly due to lower lending balances and improved credit quality in Canada. In the US the decline was mainly in the commercial real estate and mid-market sectors, while loan impairment charges in Business Banking also declined reflecting improved credit quality and lower delinquency levels. This was partly offset by a specific loan impairment charge associated with the downgrade of a commercial real estate loan exposure. The reduction in loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions was partly offset by an increase in GB&M reflecting lower releases of collective loan impairment allowances than in 2010. In addition, 2011 included an individually assessed loan impairment charge associated with a corporate lending relationship. Operating expenses increased by 7% to US$8.9bn, including an increase in litigation provisions and a new provision of US$257m related to US mortgage foreclosure servicing costs. In addition, we incurred a charge of US$48m associated with costs expected to arise from foreclosure delays involving loans serviced for GSEs. During 2011, restructuring initiatives resulted in charges of US$236m, while in 2010 operating expenses benefited from a pension curtailment gain of US$147m. Operating expenses also increased in our GB&M business. This largely reflected higher legal and compliance costs, and an increase in staff costs which included higher amortisation charges for previous years’ performance shares and accelerated expense recognition of current year deferred bonus awards. The drivers of expense growth in North America were in part offset by lower costs following the sale of the vehicle finance servicing operation in 2010 and the closure of Taxpayer Financial Services, as well as lower marketing expenses in our Card and Retail Services business. Our third party collection costs were also lower, reflecting reduced delinquencies and the continued run-off of lending balances in the CML portfolio. We expect that costs incurred in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure process will increase our operating expenses in the future. 107d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – North America31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2010 at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under-lying change25 % Net interest income 12,439 – 64 12,503 11,480 – 11,480 (8 ) (8 ) Net fee income 3,664 – 27 3,691 3,308 – 3,308 (10 ) (10 ) Own credit spread26 142 (142 ) – – 970 (970 ) – Other income27 802 (66 ) 4 740 242 – 242 (70 ) (67 ) Net operating income21 17,047 (208 ) 95 16,934 16,000 (970 ) 15,030 (6 ) (11 ) Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (8,295 ) – (11 ) (8,306 ) (7,016 ) – (7,016 ) 15 16 Net operating income 8,752 (208 ) 84 8,628 8,984 (970 ) 8,014 3 (7 ) Operating expenses (8,322 ) – (46 ) (8,368 ) (8,919 ) – (8,919 ) (7 ) (7 ) Operating profit/(loss) 430 (208 ) 38 260 65 (970 ) (905 ) (85 ) Income from associates 24 – 1 25 35 – 35 46 40 Profit/(loss) before tax 454 (208 ) 39 285 100 (970 ) (870 ) (78 ) For footnotes, see page 120. 107e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – North America 2012 RetailBanking and Wealth ManagementUS$m Commercial Banking89 US$m GlobalBankingandMarketsUS$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m TotalUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 5,481 1,443 948 192 118 (65 ) 8,117 Net fee income 923 562 716 124 188 – 2,513 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (216 ) 47 466 20 16 – 333 Net interest income on trading activities 17 1 91 – – 65 174 Net trading income/(expense)78 (199 ) 48 557 20 16 65 507 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – (1,219 ) – (1,219 ) Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value – – – – – – – Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value – – – – (1,219 ) – (1,219 ) Gains less losses from financial investments 27 – 223 (7 ) 8 – 251 Dividend income 15 11 32 3 – – 61 Net earned insurance premiums 193 – – – – – 193 Gains on disposal of US branch network and cards business 3,735 277 – – – – 4,012 Other operating income 173 149 191 5 1,787 (1,899 ) 406 Total operating income 10,348 2,490 2,667 337 898 (1,899 ) 14,841 Net insurance claims86 (148 ) – – – – – (148 ) Net operating income21 10,200 2,490 2,667 337 898 (1,899 ) 14,693 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (3,241 ) (148 ) (71 ) 3 – – (3,457 ) Net operating income 6,959 2,342 2,596 340 898 (1,899 ) 11,236 Total operating expenses (3,966 ) (1,144 ) (1,639 ) (268 ) (3,822 ) 1,899 (8,940 ) Operating profit/(loss) 2,993 1,198 957 72 (2,924 ) – 2,296 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 2 1 – – – – 3 Profit/(loss) before tax 2,995 1,199 957 72 (2,924 ) – 2,299 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 14.5 5.8 4.6 0.3 (14.2 ) 11.1 Cost efficiency ratio 38.9 45.9 61.5 79.5 425.6 60.8 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) reported in: – loans and advances to customers (net) 76,414 36,387 22,498 5,457 – 140,756 – assets held for sale (disposal groups) 3,899 – – – – 3,899 Total assets 101,103 48,604 345,040 8,828 12,659 (25,987 ) 490,247 Customer accounts reported in: – customer accounts 57,758 48,080 29,595 13,553 51 149,037 108 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking89 US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 8,931 1,528 893 187 9 (68 ) 11,480 Net fee income/(expense) 1,836 551 773 149 (1 ) – 3,308 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (946 ) 34 261 17 (26 ) – (660 ) Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities 25 1 205 – (1 ) 68 298 Net trading income/(expense)78 (921 ) 35 466 17 (27 ) 68 (362 ) Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – 967 – 967 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designatedat fair value – – (5 ) – 2 – (3 ) Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value – – (5 ) – 969 – 964 Gains less losses from financial investments 58 7 195 – 2 – 262 Dividend income 15 9 13 3 – – 40 Net earned insurance premiums 236 – – – – – 236 Other operating income (125 ) 110 193 11 2,244 (2,207 ) 226 Total operating income 10,030 2,240 2,528 367 3,196 (2,207 ) 16,154 Net insurance claims86 (154 ) – – – – – (154 ) Net operating income21 9,876 2,240 2,528 367 3,196 (2,207 ) 16,000 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (6,929 ) (105 ) (11 ) 30 (1 ) – (7,016 ) Net operating income 2,947 2,135 2,517 397 3,195 (2,207 ) 8,984 Total operating expenses (5,615 ) (1,166 ) (1,642 ) (307 ) (2,396 ) 2,207 (8,919 ) Operating profit/(loss) (2,668 ) 969 875 90 799 – 65 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 3 33 – – (1 ) – 35 Profit/(loss) before tax (2,665 ) 1,002 875 90 798 – 100 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax (12.2 ) 4.6 4.0 0.4 3.7 0.5 Cost efficiency ratio 56.9 52.1 65.0 83.7 75.0 55.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) reported in: – loans and advances to customers (net) 86,490 32,215 19,289 4,753 – 142,747 – assets held for sale (disposal groups) 31,058 520 – – – 31,578 Total assets 144,278 43,747 320,783 7,138 10,378 (22,022 ) 504,302 Customer accounts reported in: – customer accounts 63,558 47,003 30,465 14,862 94 155,982 – liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 10,104 5,040 – – – 15,144 For footnotes, see page 120. 109 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – North America (continued) 2010 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking and Markets US$m Global Private Banking US$m Other US$m Inter- segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 9,912 1,525 952 190 (71 ) (69 ) 12,439 Net fee income/(expense) 2,142 534 845 149 (6 ) – 3,664 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income (472 ) 17 563 13 (12 ) – 109 Net interest income on trading activities 24 2 93 – 17 69 205 Net trading income/(expense)78 (448 ) 19 656 13 5 69 314 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – 111 – 111 Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designatedat fair value 6 – (2 ) – (4 ) – – Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 6 – (2 ) – 107 – 111 Gains less losses from financial investments 5 (6 ) 141 – 3 – 143 Dividend income 18 7 12 3 2 – 42 Net earned insurance premiums 245 – – – – – 245 Other operating income (250 ) 242 71 15 2,351 (2,196 ) 233 Total operating income 11,630 2,321 2,675 370 2,391 (2,196 ) 17,191 Net insurance claims86 (148 ) – – – 4 – (144 ) Net operating income21 11,482 2,321 2,675 370 2,395 (2,196 ) 17,047 Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries and other credit risk provisions (8,194 ) (323 ) 184 38 – – (8,295 ) Net operating income 3,288 1,998 2,859 408 2,395 (2,196 ) 8,752 Total operating expenses (5,408 ) (1,081 ) (1,310 ) (297 ) (2,422 ) 2,196 (8,322 ) Operating profit/(loss) (2,120 ) 917 1,549 111 (27 ) – 430 Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 4 22 – – (2 ) – 24 Profit/(loss) before tax (2,116 ) 939 1,549 111 (29 ) – 454 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax (11.1 ) 5.0 8.1 0.6 (0.2 ) 2.4 Cost efficiency ratio 47.1 46.6 49.0 80.3 101.1 48.8 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 131,194 30,277 24,338 4,723 – 190,532 Total assets 154,204 39,213 306,298 5,824 9,373 (22,425 ) 492,487 Customer accounts 76,817 46,425 22,324 12,812 108 158,486 For footnotes, see page 120. 109a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) North America RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 2012 2011 Card andRetailServicesUS$m Run-offportfoliosUS$m Rest ofRBWMUS$m NorthAmericaRBWM US$m Card andRetailServicesUS$m Run-offportfoliosUS$m Rest ofRBWMUS$m NorthAmericaRBWMUS$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income 1,267 2,563 1,651 5,481 4,128 2,990 1,813 8,931 Net fee income/(expense) 395 33 495 923 1,273 (49 ) 612 1,836 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income – (226 ) 10 (216 ) – (1,145 ) 199 (946 ) Net interest income on trading activities – – 17 17 – – 25 25 Net trading income/(expense)78 – (226 ) 27 (199 ) – (1,145 ) 224 (921 ) Gains less losses from financial investments – – 27 27 – 55 3 58 Dividend income – 3 12 15 – 5 10 15 Net earned insurance premiums – – 193 193 – 230 6 236 Gains on disposal of US branch network andcards business 3,148 – 587 3,735 – – – – Other operating income/(expense) 7 23 143 173 61 (185 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total operating income 4,817 2,396 3,135 10,348 5,462 1,901 2,667 10,030 Net insurance claims86 – – (148 ) (148 ) – (156 ) 2 (154 ) Net operating income21 4,817 2,396 2,987 10,200 5,462 1,745 2,669 9,876 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (322 ) (2,569 ) (350 ) (3,241 ) (1,600 ) (4,982 ) (347 ) (6,929 ) Net operating income/(expense) 4,495 (173 ) 2,637 6,959 3,862 (3,237 ) 2,322 2,947 Total operating expenses (729 ) (1,103 ) (2,134 ) (3,966 ) (1,801 ) (1,238 ) (2,576 ) (5,615 ) Operating profit/(loss) 3,766 (1,276 ) 503 2,993 2,061 (4,475 ) (254 ) (2,668 ) Share of profit in associates and joint ventures – 2 – 2 – 3 – 3 Profit/(loss) before tax 3,766 (1,274 ) 503 2,995 2,061 (4,472 ) (254 ) (2,665 ) % % % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 18.2 (6.2 ) 2.4 14.5 9.4 (20.4 ) (1.2 ) (12.2 ) Cost efficiency ratio 15.1 46.0 71.4 38.9 33.0 70.9 96.5 56.9 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) reported in: – loans and advances to customers – 34,260 42,154 76,414 – 43,543 42,947 86,490 – assets held for sale – 3,463 436 3,899 29,137 – 1,921 31,058 Total assets – 54,382 46,721 101,103 30,635 56,830 56,813 144,278 Customer accounts reported in: – customer accounts – – 57,758 57,758 – – 63,558 63,558 – liabilities of disposal groups held for sale – – – – – – 10,104 10,104 For footnotes, see page 120. 110 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Latin America Our operations in Latin America principally comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.-Banco Múltiplo, HSBC México, S.A., HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. and HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. In addition to banking services, we operate insurance businesses in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Panama. 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Net interest income 6,984 6,956 6,311 Net fee income 1,735 1,781 1,749 Net trading income 971 1,378 733 Other income 1,261 1,338 938 Net operating income21 10,951 11,453 9,731 LICs76 (2,137 ) (1,883 ) (1,544 ) Net operating income 8,814 9,570 8,187 Total operating expenses (6,430 ) (7,255 ) (6,394 ) Operating profit 2,384 2,315 1,793 Income from associates77 – – 2 Profit before tax 2,384 2,315 1,795 Cost efficiency ratio 58.7% 63.3% 65.7% RoRWA66 2.4% 2.3% 2.0% Year-end staff numbers 46,556 54,035 56,044 Significant progress on reducing fragmentation in our portfolio of businesses Strong underlying revenue growth across all global businesses US$475m increase in LICs76 (on an underlying basis) For footnotes, see page 120. Economic background Brazil’s GDP growth slowed further in 2012, mostly due to the effects of higher input costs, concern about global financial stability, and domestic regulatory uncertainty. Despite growth remaining low, consumer inflation remained above the 4.5% inflation target pursued by the Central Bank, ending 2012 at 5.8%. By contrast, growth held up well in Mexico in 2012 led, in particular, by favourable industrial exports to the US. Enhanced competitiveness helped Mexican exports to gain a larger share of total US imports. Domestically, demand stayed largely unchanged, encouraged by labour reforms passed by the new administration. Despite the growth figures, inflation ended 2012 slightly below 4% and converging on the 3% inflation target pursued by Banco de Mexico. Argentina reported a sharp slowdown in 2012. Balance of payments restrictions gradually escalated from capital flows to the current account, including imports of intermediate goods, which generated disruption in production and deterioration in business confidence. Despite this sharp slowdown, inflation continued to remain high, partly due to regulated price increases and import restrictions that lowered domestic supply. Review of performance Our operations in Latin America reported a profit before tax of US$2.4bn in 2012, 3% higher than in 2011 and an increase of 16% on a constant currency basis. This included a gain of US$102m following the completion of the sale of our general insurance manufacturing business in Argentina, a loss of US$62m on the sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador and a loss of US$96m recognised following the reclassification of our non-strategic businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay to ‘Assets held for sale.’ On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits rose by 19%, primarily due to increased revenues across all global businesses, partly offset by higher loan impairment charges. In RBWM, the revenue increase reflected growth in average lending balances in Argentina and a higher yielding portfolio mix in Brazil while, in CMB, it resulted from continued balance sheet growth in Brazil which was driven by a strong demand for trade-related lending and higher balances of Payment and Cash Management current accounts in Argentina. In addition, there were higher Balance Sheet Management revenues in Brazil following a downward movement in interest rates which lowered the cost of funding. In Brazil, loan 111 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses RetailBanking and WealthManagement US$m CommercialBankingUS$m GlobalBankingandMarkets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Argentina 209 169 174 – (46 ) 506 Brazil 94 359 696 17 (43 ) 1,123 Mexico 338 176 201 2 (18 ) 699 Panama 29 62 48 2 – 141 Other (62 ) (15 ) 34 (1 ) (41 ) (85 ) 608 751 1,153 20 (148 ) 2,384 2011 Argentina 91 107 148 – (2 ) 344 Brazil 241 566 515 13 (105 ) 1,230 Mexico 403 129 268 4 (178 ) 626 Panama 23 59 52 3 (9 ) 128 Other (55 ) 6 66 – (30 ) (13 ) 703 867 1,049 20 (324 ) 2,315 2010 Argentina 89 90 105 – – 284 Brazil 151 382 430 6 64 1,033 Mexico 174 24 210 4 (11 ) 401 Panama 48 57 33 2 – 140 Other (100 ) 1 51 (2 ) (13 ) (63 ) 362 554 829 10 40 1,795 impairment charges rose, primarily as a result of increased delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. Loan impairment charges improved during the second half of 2012, mainly due to lower collective portfolio provisions in Brazil. We made significant progress in reducing the fragmentation in our Latin American businesses through disposals in our non-strategic markets. In May 2012, we announced the sale of our businesses in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and Paraguay, with completion expected in 2013. We will continue to offer full branch services to our customers during transition. In the second half of 2012, we completed the sale of our businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras. In addition, we completed the sale of our general insurance manufacturing business in Argentina and announced the agreement to sell a portfolio of general insurance assets and liabilities in Mexico with completion expected in 2013. Under the terms of these agreements, the purchasers will provide general insurance products to HSBC to sell to our retail customers in the two countries. This long-term collaboration will broaden and strengthen the suite of general insurance products available to our customers. In February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell our operations in Panama. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions and is expected to complete by the third quarter of 2013. In our RBWM business, we made good progress in developing a wealth management service that addresses our customers’ needs and we strengthened our sales force capabilities to capture wealth creation in the region. Wealth Management revenues increased by over US$275m or 36%. This included the favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF asset in Brazil. Excluding this gain, Wealth Management revenues rose by 17%, mainly from insurance and mutual funds. In CMB, we worked closely with GB&M to ensure our clients had access to appropriate products. In addition, our relationships with CMB payroll customers enabled us to increase personal lending to their employees, who became our RBWM customers. We were able to provide support to companies as they grow internationally through our Global Trade and Receivables Finance products, and used our international expertise to capture trade and capital flows, notably in the Brazil-China trade corridors. We continued to strengthen our service to international SMEs by increasing the number of specialist International Relationship Managers in Brazil. In GB&M, we continued to target international corporate customers throughout Latin America. 112 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) We were awarded ‘First place in International Debt Capital Markets’ by the Brazilian Financial and Capital Markets Association and ‘Best Project Finance House in Latin America’ from Euromoney. We also maintained a strong presence in the foreign exchange and derivatives markets. Across the region, we continued to implement measures to improve operational efficiency, incurring US$167m of restructuring costs in 2012. We achieved a 14% net reduction of almost 7,500 FTEs, including more than 4,000 employees transferred with the disposals described earlier, and approximately US$285m of additional sustainable savings. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Net interest income increased by 12% compared with 2011, with growth across all global businesses. In RBWM, net interest income rose due to higher average lending volumes, mainly in personal loans and credit cards in Argentina as a result of successful marketing and sales campaigns. We also benefited from a change in the composition of the lending book in Brazil as we increased our balances of higher yielding assets. Net interest income from deposits also increased due to higher balances in current accounts in Mexico and savings accounts in Argentina supported by marketing campaigns. In CMB, higher net interest income reflected a rise in average loans and advances to customers in Brazil, driven by strong demand for trade-related lending and our focus on corporate relationships and sectors with potential for international expansion. Net interest income also rose in Argentina, mainly in Payments and Cash Management current accounts, reflecting higher balances which were supported by successful marketing campaigns, and wider spreads driven by a rise in interest rates. In GB&M, net interest income increased, notably in Balance Sheet Management in Brazil, as we benefited from the downward movements in interest rates which lowered the cost of funding assets in this portfolio. Net fee income increased by 8% to US$1.7bn, mainly due to higher Payments and Cash Management revenues, which benefited from mandates from new customers and repricing initiatives in Argentina and Brazil. Fee income was also higher as a result of the sale of the general insurance business as fee expense associated with this business was no longer incurred. Net trading income of US$971m was 19% lower than in 2011, primarily due to lower reverse repos driven by positions in GB&M in Brazil that had matured but had not been renewed, and lower income related to government debt securities. This was partly offset by gains in the Rates business as a result of favourable rate movements. Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value increased by 39%, or US$187m, mainly in Brazil, reflecting higher investment gains arising from favourable equity and debt market movements and growth in policyholder assets from higher sales of unit-linked pension products. To the extent that these investment gains were attributed to policyholders there was a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Gains less losses from financial investments of US$227m were 80% or US$100m higher than in 2011, primarily in Brazil due to gains on sale of shares in non-strategic investments and disposals of government debt securities in GB&M in 2012, partly offset by the non-recurrence of a gain in GB&M on the sale of shares in a Mexican listed company in 2011. Net earned insurance premiums increased by 5% to US$2.5bn, driven by increased sales in Brazil of unit-linked pension products and term life insurance products. Premiums also rose in Mexico, mainly due to growth in sales of an endowment product. In Argentina, premiums were lower, following the sale of the general insurance business in 2012. Other operating income decreased by 8% to US$253m, driven by a loss of US$62m on the sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador, and a loss of US$96m recognised following the reclassification of our non-strategic businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay to held for sale. In addition, in 2011, we reported a gain on sale of the Mexican pension administration business, HSBC Afore, of US$83m and a gain on the sale and leaseback of branches of US$53m. These factors were partly offset by the favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF asset in Brazil of US$119m relating to unit-linked pensions, together with an increase in the value of new term life business in Brazil, as well as the gain on sale of the general insurance business in Argentina of US$102m. Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by 15%, driven by higher net investment gains on the fair value of the assets held to support policyholder contracts. In 113 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) addition, liabilities to policyholders were established for new business, reflecting the increase in premiums in Brazil, though this was partly offset by the disposal of the general insurance business in Argentina in 2012. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions increased by 29%. This was mainly in Brazil, driven by increased delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, particularly in Business Banking, reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. We took a number of steps to reposition our portfolios in RBWM and CMB including reducing third-party originations and lowering credit limits where appropriate. We also improved our collections capabilities. Loan impairment charges improved during the second half of the year in Brazil. Operating expenses decreased by US$83m compared with 2011. Restructuring costs declined by US$137m as 2011 included costs associated with the consolidation of the branch network and the reorganisation of regional and country support functions. These restructuring initiatives and our continued efforts to exercise strict cost control and progress with our organisational effectiveness programmes resulted in approximately US$285m of additional sustainable cost savings and a net 7% reduction in average FTEs of around 4,000 in 2012. These savings were partly offset by inflationary pressures, union-agreed wage increases in Brazil and Argentina and a payment of fines and penalties of US$29m in connection with non-compliance with anti-money laundering systems and controls including requirements to report unusual transactions, in Mexico. 114 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit/(loss) before tax – Latin America 2011 asreportedUS$m Currency translation adjustment24 US$m 2011 at 2012exchange rates US$m 2012 asreportedUS$m Reported change25 % Constantcurrency change25 % Net interest income 6,956 (709 ) 6,247 6,984 – 12 Net fee income 1,781 (174 ) 1,607 1,735 (3 ) 8 Other income27 2,716 (333 ) 2,383 2,232 (18 ) (6 ) Net operating income21 11,453 (1,216 ) 10,237 10,951 (4 ) 7 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,883 ) 221 (1,662 ) (2,137 ) (13 ) (29 ) Net operating income 9,570 (995 ) 8,575 8,814 (8 ) 3 Operating expenses (7,255 ) 742 (6,513 ) (6,430 ) 11 1 Operating profit 2,315 (253 ) 2,062 2,384 3 16 Income from associates – – – – – – Profit before tax 2,315 (253 ) 2,062 2,384 3 16 For footnotes, see page 120. Reconciliation of reported and underlying29 items – Latin America Year ended 31 December 2012US $m 2011US$m Change % Revenue21 Reported revenue 10,951 11,453 (4 ) Currency translation adjustment24 (1,216 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (343 ) (492 ) Underlying revenue 10,608 9,745 9 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) Reported LICs (2,137 ) (1,883 ) (13 ) Currency translation adjustment24 221 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 16 16 Underlying LICs (2,121 ) (1,646 ) (29 ) Operating expenses Reported operating expenses (6,430 ) (7,255 ) 11 Currency translation adjustment24 742 Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 183 295 Underlying operating expenses (6,247 ) (6,218 ) – Underlying cost efficiency ratio 58.9% 63.8% Profit before tax Reported profit before tax 2,384 2,315 3 Currency translation adjustment24 (253 ) Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (144 ) (181 ) Underlying profit before tax 2,240 1,881 19 For footnotes, see page 120. 114a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 Economic background In Brazil, economic growth in 2011 slowed more quickly than expected, and is anticipated to have ended the year with the economy growing at an annual rate of 3%. While the fallout from the crisis in the eurozone contributed to the slowdown, it was mostly attributable to an easing in domestic demand following a tightening in monetary conditions in response to rising inflation. By the end of 2011 inflation had fallen to 6.5% after peaking at around 7.5% in June. This allowed the government to reverse much of the policy tightening implemented in early 2011. Mexico’s economy maintained a robust rate of growth in 2011, although export growth moderated at the end of the year on the back of lower external demand. By contrast, domestic demand continued to strengthen, reflecting the greater availability of credit, growth in wages and a steady reduction in unemployment. GDP grew at an annual rate of 3.9% in 2011. The annual rate of CPI inflation rose at the end of 2011 to 3.8% due to a rebound in some agricultural prices and exchange rate depreciation. The Central Bank of Mexico maintained its policy interest rate at 4.5% throughout the year. In Argentina, during the first three quarters of 2011, real GDP increased by 9.4% compared with the same period in 2010, mainly from increases in consumption of 11.3% and in gross fixed investment of 19.9%. The annual rate of CPI inflation remained high and the GDP deflator measure of inflation accelerated to 16.4% in the third quarter of 2011. Review of performance In Latin America, our operations reported a profit before tax of US$2.3bn in 2011, an increase of 29% compared with 2010. On an underlying basis, which excludes a gain of US$83m from the sale of HSBC Afore (the Mexican pension administration business), profit before tax increased by 21%. This was driven by strong growth in lending balances in our CMB and RBWM businesses in Brazil, which reflected the favourable economic environment. Improved revenue in GB&M arose from higher income from foreign exchange driven by greater volatility and an increase in client activity, while growth in insurance revenue followed an increase in our sales force. This was partly offset by cost growth driven by restructuring initiatives, inflationary pressures and business growth, while a rise in loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions reflected the strong rise in lending, particularly in Brazil. During 2011, we made progress in the execution of our regional strategy while also improving the efficiency of our operations. We recruited additional relationship managers in our CMB businesses in Brazil to support business growth, particularly from Business Banking and mid-market customers and the increasing number of businesses with international requirements. We increased our focus on sales and customer service with the addition of relationship managers in RBWM in Brazil, and opened 14 new branches in Argentina to capture opportunities arising from demographic changes and upward social mobility. In order to improve the risk profile of our RBWM business we continued to reposition our lending portfolio towards higher credit-quality customers, notably by building long-term relationships with customers. In Brazil, we increased our focus on secured lending and wealth management products. In GB&M, our pre-tax profits increased to over US$1.0bn in 2011 as we continued to utilise the connectivity of the HSBC network to serve the growing number of global corporate businesses in Latin America. During 2011, our GB&M sales force actively targeted our CMB customer base and achieved strong growth in revenue compared with 2010, most notably from the sale of GB&M foreign exchange products. To enhance efficiency, we restructured our regional and country support functions, and in Mexico we consolidated the branch network, reducing it by 43 in the last quarter of 2010 and 77 in 2011. In the second half of 2011 we completed the sale of HSBC Afore and our retail banking operations in Chile. As a consequence, we reduced staff numbers by more than 1,900 in 2011. In January 2012, we entered into an agreement to sell our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador. We expect to complete this transaction during 2012, subject to regulatory approval. Net interest income rose by 7% to US$7.0bn, driven by growth in average lending balances in both 2010 and in 2011. This was mainly in CMB and RBWM, reflecting favourable economic conditions and growing consumer demand, partly offset by a rise in internal funding costs on higher balances of reverse repos and government bonds held for trading. In CMB, we grew our average customer lending balances, particularly in Brazil, reflecting the favourable economic conditions, the increase in our customer base and our investment in relationship managers. The rise was mainly in working capital products following marketing campaigns and new 114b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) product launches, while higher overdraft balances arose from increased utilisation rates. We also grew our trade-related lending in response to strong customer demand and our focus on sales to customers with international connectivity. In RBWM, increased average lending balances and strong lending growth in 2011 led to higher net interest income, mainly in Brazil and Argentina, reflecting economic growth, lower unemployment and increased household income. This was partly offset by a compression of asset spreads in Mexico and Brazil as an increased proportion of our lending book comprised secured, lower-yielding products. Net fee income declined marginally, driven by a reduction in Mexico where regulatory changes relating to ATM transactions resulted in a reduction in the fees we were able to charge for use of our network. Credit card fees in Mexico declined as a result of lower balances. This was partly offset by growth in fee income from our CMB business in Brazil, mainly in Payments and Cash Management and Account Services, reflecting increased volumes. Net trading income was 82% higher than in 2010. The majority of the increase was in Brazil due to a rise in net interest income earned on trading activities resulting from an increase in reverse repos and government bonds held for trading. The cost of internally funding these assets also increased, but the related interest expense is reported within ‘Net interest income’. Additionally, trading income in Brazil increased as a result of higher revenue from sales of foreign exchange products reflecting market volatility, while in Mexico higher trading income was due to the completion of a small number of individually large derivative transactions in GB&M. Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value was 26% higher than in 2010, mainly due to growth in premiums from unit-linked pension products in Brazil which resulted in an increase in the underlying financial assets. Since investment income accruing from these assets was largely attributable to policyholders, there was a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Gains less losses from financial investments rose by 36%, mainly due to a gain on the sale of shares in a Mexican listed company and increased gains from the sale of debt securities in Argentina. Net insurance premiums increased by 26% to US$2.7bn. This was mainly in Brazil, reflecting strong growth in sales of unit linked pension and life and credit protection products, following an increase in the sales force and targeted sales campaigns. In Argentina, strong growth in net insurance premiums was mainly attributable to volume growth and the repricing of motor insurance policies in response to inflationary pressures. In Mexico, a rise in net insurance premiums was principally due to higher sales of an endowment product and improved term life lapse rates. The growth in net insurance premiums, as well as the increase in policyholder assets described above, resulted in corresponding increases in ‘Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. Other operating income of US$244m was 74% higher than in 2010 due to gains of US$61m resulting from the sale and leaseback of branches in Mexico. In addition, there was a net increase in the PVIF in Brazil and Mexico as a result of higher life insurance sales, partly offset by a net decrease from experience and assumption updates in addition to a higher unwind of cash flows from the growing in-force book. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions rose by 17% to US$1.9bn. The increase was mainly in Brazil driven by strong lending growth in RBWM and CMB, as well as worsening delinquency in the second half of 2011, notably in the credit card and Business Banking portfolios. In addition, higher loan impairment charges included a significant individually assessed loan impairment charge related to a single commercial customer. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions in Mexico declined by 28% reflecting the continued managed decline of the higher risk sections of the credit card portfolio, as well as improvements to both the collections and credit quality of the portfolio following targeted sales campaigns and enhanced pre-screening. Operating expenses were 10% higher than in 2010. In 2011, we incurred US$338m of restructuring costs, the majority of which are reported in ‘Other’, as we took steps to improve the ongoing efficiency of our operations in the region, including cancelling certain regional projects, restructuring regional and country support functions and consolidating the branch network in Mexico. In addition, operating expenses were adversely affected by inflationary pressures across the region, as well as union agreed wage increases and a rise in volume-driven transactional taxes in Brazil and Argentina. Sustainable savings of about US$220m resulting from the restructuring and organisational effectiveness programmes enabled investment in strategic initiatives, including the recruitment of additional relationship managers. 114c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2011 compared with 2010 – Latin America31 2010 asreportedUS$m 2010adjust- ments32 US$m Currency translation adjustment24US$m 2010 at 2011exchange rates33 US$m 2011 asreportedUS$m 2011adjust- ments32 US$m 2011under-lyingUS$m Re-ported change25 % Under-lying change25 % Net interest income 6,311 – 200 6,511 6,956 – 6,956 10 7 Net fee income 1,749 – 54 1,803 1,781 – 1,781 2 (1 ) Other income27 1,671 – 40 1,711 2,716 (83 ) 2,633 63 54 Net operating income21 9,731 – 294 10,025 11,453 (83 ) 11,370 18 13 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,544 ) – (61 ) (1,605 ) (1,883 ) – (1,883 ) (22 ) (17 ) Net operating income 8,187 – 233 8,420 9,570 (83 ) 9,487 17 13 Operating expenses (6,394 ) – (187 ) (6,581 ) (7,255 ) – (7,255 ) (13 ) (10 ) Operating profit 1,793 – 46 1,839 2,315 (83 ) 2,232 29 21 Income from associates 2 – – 2 – – – Profit before tax 1,795 – 46 1,841 2,315 (83 ) 2,232 29 21 For footnotes, see page 120. 114d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America 2012 RetailBanking and Wealth ManagementUS$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBanking and MarketsUS$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 4,145 2,173 993 30 (2 ) (355 ) 6,984 Net fee income 873 622 207 33 – – 1,735 Trading income excluding net interest income 85 99 398 3 1 – 586 Net interest income on trading activities – – 29 – 1 355 385 Net trading income78 85 99 427 3 2 355 971 Changes in fair value of long- term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – – – – Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 503 163 1 – – – 667 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value 503 163 1 – – – 667 Gains less losses from financial investments 75 21 131 – – – 227 Dividend income 9 5 1 – – – 15 Net earned insurance premiums 1,985 450 17 – – – 2,452 Other operating income/(expense) 309 (9 ) 6 3 134 (190 ) 253 Total operating income 7,984 3,524 1,783 69 134 (190 ) 13,304 Net insurance claims86 (1,875 ) (469 ) (9 ) – – – (2,353 ) Net operating income21 6,109 3,055 1,774 69 134 (190 ) 10,951 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,541 ) (581 ) (13 ) (2 ) – – (2,137 ) Net operating income 4,568 2,474 1,761 67 134 (190 ) 8,814 Total operating expenses (3,960 ) (1,723 ) (608 ) (47 ) (282 ) 190 (6,430 ) Operating profit/(loss) 608 751 1,153 20 (148 ) – 2,384 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures – – – – – – – Profit/(loss) before tax 608 751 1,153 20 (148 ) – 2,384 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 2.9 3.6 5.6 0.1 (0.7 ) 11.6 Cost efficiency ratio 64.8 56.4 34.3 68.1 210.4 58.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 17,236 25,379 10,903 91 – 53,609 Total assets 36,141 35,507 58,272 570 1,110 (323 ) 131,277 Customer accounts 28,688 20,834 12,604 4,430 – 66,556 115 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America (continued) 2011 Retail Banking and Wealth Management US$m Commercial Banking US$m Global Banking andMarkets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit/(loss) before tax Net interest income/(expense) 4,519 2,229 882 25 (7 ) (692 ) 6,956 Net fee income 939 610 196 36 – – 1,781 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 68 106 372 5 (7 ) – 544 Net interest income on trading activities – – 134 – 8 692 834 Net trading income78 68 106 506 5 1 692 1,378 Changes in fair value of long- term debt issued and related derivatives – – – – – – – Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 424 124 2 – – – 550 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value 424 124 2 – – – 550 Gains less losses from financial investments 11 1 124 1 – – 137 Dividend income 10 3 1 – – – 14 Net earned insurance premiums 2,068 551 34 – – – 2,653 Other operating income 265 57 32 2 222 (250 ) 328 Total operating income 8,304 3,681 1,777 69 216 (250 ) 13,797 Net insurance claims86 (1,850 ) (478 ) (16 ) – – – (2,344 ) Net operating income21 6,454 3,203 1,761 69 216 (250 ) 11,453 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,369 ) (501 ) (12 ) – (1 ) – (1,883 ) Net operating income 5,085 2,702 1,749 69 215 (250 ) 9,570 Total operating expenses (4,382 ) (1,835 ) (700 ) (49 ) (539 ) 250 (7,255 ) Operating profit/(loss) 703 867 1,049 20 (324 ) – 2,315 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures – – – – – – – Profit/(loss) before tax 703 867 1,049 20 (324 ) – 2,315 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 3.2 4.0 4.8 0.1 (1.5 ) 10.6 Cost efficiency ratio 67.9 57.3 39.8 71.0 249.5 63.3 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 19,025 25,834 11,011 62 6 55,938 Total assets 39,231 38,410 66,241 1,660 417 (1,070 ) 144,889 Customer accounts 28,629 24,050 18,940 7,079 62 78,760 For footnotes, see page 120. 116 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America (continued) 2010 RetailBanking and WealthManagement US$m Commercial BankingUS$m GlobalBanking and Markets US$m Global PrivateBankingUS$m Other US$m Inter-segment elimination85 US$m Total US$m Profit before tax Net interest income 3,979 1,671 772 20 121 (252 ) 6,311 Net fee income/(expense) 1,006 526 191 32 (6 ) – 1,749 Trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income 35 72 370 3 (27 ) – 453 Net interest income on trading activities – – 28 – – 252 280 Net trading income/(expense)78 35 72 398 3 (27 ) 252 733 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value 339 85 1 – – – 425 Gains less losses from financial investments 6 2 93 – (3 ) – 98 Dividend income 7 2 3 – – – 12 Net earned insurance premiums 1,651 374 29 – – – 2,054 Other operating income 98 34 15 2 221 (229 ) 141 Total operating income 7,121 2,766 1,502 57 306 (229 ) 11,523 Net insurance claims86 (1,479 ) (297 ) (16 ) – – – (1,792 ) Net operating income21 5,642 2,469 1,486 57 306 (229 ) 9,731 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,247 ) (293 ) (4 ) – – – (1,544 ) Net operating income 4,395 2,176 1,482 57 306 (229 ) 8,187 Total operating expenses (4,034 ) (1,623 ) (653 ) (47 ) (266 ) 229 (6,394 ) Operating profit 361 553 829 10 40 – 1,793 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 1 1 – – – – 2 Profit before tax 362 554 829 10 40 – 1,795 % % % % % % Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 1.9 2.9 4.3 0.1 0.2 9.4 Cost efficiency ratio 71.5 65.7 43.9 82.5 86.9 65.7 Balance sheet data74 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers (net) 20,823 24,879 12,242 43 – 57,987 Total assets 38,819 35,619 64,635 1,608 196 (939 ) 139,938 Customer accounts 30,149 24,514 27,810 6,053 – 88,526 For footnotes, see page 120. 116a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios In implementing our strategy, we have sold or agreed to sell a number of businesses and investments across the Group. We expect these disposals to have a significant effect on both the revenue and the profitability of the geographical regions in the future. In addition, significant portfolios are being run down. We expect the losses on these portfolios to continue to affect the geographical regions in the future. The table below presents the contribution of these businesses and investments to the historical results of geographical regions. We do not expect the historical results to be indicative of future results because of disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs, included in total operating costs, will not necessarily be removed upon disposal and have been separately identified on page 53. Summary income statements for disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios69,70 2012 EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest of Asia-PacificUS$m MENA US$m North America US$m Latin America US$m Net interest income (54 ) 15 40 31 4,051 372 Net fee income/(expense) (4 ) (45 ) (3 ) 10 401 30 Net trading income/(expense) 68 (6 ) 5 54 (186 ) 27 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 10 – 5 – (785 ) 3 Gains less losses from financial investments (70 ) – – – 26 7 Dividend income – – – – 3 – Net earned insurance premiums 1 229 133 – 190 192 Other operating income/(expense) (1 ) – 17 – 29 11 Total operating income/(expense) (50 ) 193 197 95 3,729 642 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (1 ) (119 ) (95 ) – (138 ) (90 ) Net operating income/(expense)21 (51 ) 74 102 95 3,591 552 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (167 ) – – (2 ) (2,919 ) (64 ) Net operating income/(expense) (218 ) 74 102 93 672 488 Total operating expenses (66 ) (37 ) (122 ) (47 ) (2,104 ) (371 ) Operating profit/(loss) (284 ) 37 (20 ) 46 (1,432 ) 117 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 2 9 772 – 2 1 Profit/(loss) before tax (282 ) 46 752 46 (1,430 ) 118 By global business Retail Banking and Wealth Management 2 27 612 10 (656 ) 41 Commercial Banking – 13 91 – 9 42 Global Banking and Markets (283 ) 6 57 36 2 54 Global Private Banking (1 ) – (8 ) – – – Other – – – – (785 ) (19 ) Profit/(loss) before tax (282 ) 46 752 46 (1,430 ) 118 Net gain/(loss) on sale (3 ) 375 3,317 (85 ) 4,095 40 For footnotes, see page 120. 117 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Other information Funds under management and assets held in custody Funds under management 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Funds under management At 1 January 847 925 Net new money 5 2 Value change 49 (40 ) Exchange and other 9 (40 ) At 31 December 910 847 At 31 December 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Funds under management by business Global Asset Management 425 396 Global Private Banking 288 259 Affiliates 3 3 Other 194 189 910 847 Funds under management (‘FuM’) at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$910bn, an increase of 7% compared with 31 December 2011. Total fund holdings increased in 2012, reflecting favourable market movements, the inclusion of custody assets in client assets in GPB and net new money inflows from Global Asset Management. Global Asset Management funds, including emerging market funds, increased by 7% to US$425bn compared with 31 December 2011, driven by favourable global market movements and net inflows of US$16bn, mainly from sales of long-term funds, notably fixed income and multi-asset products, in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Hong Kong and Latin America. GPB funds increased by 11% on 31 December 2011 to US$288bn, mainly due to the inclusion of custody assets in client assets and favourable equity market and foreign exchange movements. Negative net new money was driven by net outflows in Europe, primarily due to a programme to reposition our client base towards higher net worth international and domestic relationships, and a review of certain client relationships with a view to reducing control risk, largely offset by net inflows originating from emerging markets. Other FuM increased by 3% to US$194bn, primarily due to favourable equity market movements partly offset by the disposal of the full service retail brokerage business in Canada. Assets held in custody and under administration Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of securities and other financial assets on behalf of clients. At 31 December 2012, we held assets as custodian of US$6.0 trillion, 16% higher than the US$5.2 trillion held at 31 December 2011. This was mainly driven by favourable market movements together with increased new business and favourable movements in foreign exchange. Our assets under administration business, which includes the provision of various support function activities including the valuation of portfolios of securities and other financial assets on behalf of clients, complements the custody business. At 31 December 2012, the value of assets held under administration by the Group amounted to US$2.9 trillion, compared with US$2.6 trillion in 2011. Property At 31 December 2012, we operated from some 8,650 operational properties worldwide, of which approximately 2,150 were located in Europe, 2,600 in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 550 in North America, 2,950 in Latin America and 400 in the Middle East and North Africa. These properties had an area of approximately 59.7m square feet (2011: 65.7m square feet). Our freehold and long leasehold properties, together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, were valued in 2012. The value of these properties was US$9.7bn (2011: US$8.9bn) in excess of their carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet an historical cost based measure. In addition, properties with a net book value of US$1.3bn (2011:US$1.3bn) were held for investment purposes. Our operational properties are stated at cost, being historical cost or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (their deemed cost) less any impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis calculated to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives. Properties owned as a consequence of an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value. Further details are included in Note 24 on the Financial Statements. 118 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Detailed list of disclosures in this report arising from EDTF recommendations Type of risk Recommendation Disclosure Page General 1 The risks to which the business is exposed. 124 to 126 2 Our risk appetite and stress testing. 126 to 128 3 Top and emerging risks, and the changes during the reporting period. 130 to 136 4 Discussion of future regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability, and its implementation in Europe. 132 and 288 to 292 Risk governance, risk management and business model 5 Group Risk Committee, and their activities. 323 to 328 6 Risk culture and risk governance and ownership. 124 7 Diagram of the risk exposure by global business segment. 20 8 Stress testing and the underlying assumptions. 127 to 128 Capital adequacy and risk-weighted assets 9 Pillar 1 capital requirements, and the impact for global systemically important banks. For calculation of Pillar 1 capital requirements, see pages 10 to 14 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012. 294 to 296 and 291 to 292 10 Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance sheet. 287 11 Flow statement of the movements in regulatory capital since the previous reporting period, including changes in core tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital. 285 12 Discussion of targeted level of capital, and the plans on how to establish this. 288 13 Analysis of risk-weighted assets by risk type, global business and geographical region, and market risk RWAs. 282 to 283 14 For analysis of the capital requirements for each Basel asset class, see pages 10 to 14, 23, 58 and 61 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012. 15 For analysis of credit risk for each Basel asset class, see pages 23 to 28 and 32 to 38 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012. 16 Flow statements reconciling the movements in risk-weighted assets for each risk-weighted asset type. 283 and 284 17 For discussion of Basel credit risk model performance, see pages 39 to 41 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document. Liquidity 18 Analysis of the Group’s liquid asset buffer. 206 to 207 Funding 19 Encumbered and unencumbered assets analysed by balance sheet category. 211 to 214 20 Consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments analysed by remaining contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. 485 to 492 21 Analysis of the Group’s sources of funding and a description of our funding strategy. 209 to 211 Market risk 22 Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and non-trading portfolios and the balance sheet, by business segment. 218 to 219 23 Discussion of significant trading and non-trading market risk factors. 220 to 223 24 VAR assumptions, limitations and validation. 266 to 267 25 Discussion of stress tests, reverse stress tests and stressed VAR. 267 Credit risk 26 Analysis of the aggregate credit risk exposures, including details of both personal and wholesale lending. 139 to 141 27 Discussion of the policies for identifying impaired loans, defining impairments and renegotiated loans, and explaining loan forbearance policies. 162 and 254 to 259 28 Reconciliations of the opening and closing balances of impaired loans and impairment allowances during the year. 163 and 172 29 Analysis of counterparty credit risk that arises from derivative transactions. 145 30 Discussion of credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all sources of credit risk. 163 to 168 Other risks 31 Quantified measures of the management of operational risk. 227 to 230 32 Discussion of publicly known risk events. 130 to 136 The 32 recommendations listed above are made in the report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’ issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board on 29 October 2012. 119 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Disclosure controls The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, with the assistance of other members of management, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of HSBC Holdings’ disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2012. Based upon that evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2012 were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports which the company files and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and when required. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. There has been no change in HSBC Holdings’ internal controls over financial reporting during the year ended 31 December 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, HSBC Holdings’ internal controls over financial reporting. Management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting, and has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012. In making the assessment, management used the framework for Director’s internal control evaluation contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘The Revised Turnbull Guidance’), as well as the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (‘COSO’) in ‘Internal Control-Integrated Framework’. Based on the assessment performed, management concluded that as at 31 December 2012, the Group’s internal controls over financial reporting were effective. KPMG Audit Plc, which has audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012, has also audited the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) as stated in their report on pages 369 and 370. 119a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Footnotes to pages 3 to 119 Financial highlights 1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year. The third interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.09 was paid on 18 January 2012. The fourth interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 was paid on 2 May 2012. First, second and third interim dividends for 2012, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 5 July 2012, 4 October 2012 and 12 December 2012, respectively. Note 10 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2012. On 4 March 2013 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 8 May 2013 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 29 April 2013, with a scrip dividend alternative. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2012 were US$38,175m. Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012. Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 17 January 2012, 16 April 2012, 16 July 2012 and 15 October 2012. Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012. 2 The return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity is defined as profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders’ equity. 3 Return on average invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders’ equity after adding back goodwill previously amortised or written-off directly to reserves, deducting average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting/(adding) average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities and property revaluation reserves. This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit. 4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 5 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares. 6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period. 7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index. 8 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index. 9 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index. 10 The core tier 1 capital ratio for 2012 and 2011 includes the effect of the Basel 2.5 rules. Business and operating models and KPIs 11 Based upon pro forma post-tax profits allocation. See page 349 for details. 12 Intermediation of securities, funds and insurance products, including Securities Services in GB&M. 13 Merger and acquisition, ECM, event and project financing, and co-investments in GPB. 14 Including Foreign Exchange, Rates, Credit and Equities. 15 Including portfolio management. 16 Including private trust and estate planning (for financial and non-financial assets). 17 Including hedge funds, real estate and private equity. 18 Vehicle Finance was sold in 2010. 19 ‘Transactions’ refers to the sale or closure of non-strategic businesses or non-core investment. 20 Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. 21 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as ‘revenue.’ 22 The sum of balances presented does not agree to consolidated amounts because inter-company eliminations are not presented here. 23 For definitions of HSBC UK, HBAP and HSBC US, see footnotes 40 to 42, respectively, on page 249. Subsidiaries of these entities are not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries and the parent. ‘Other entities’ (footnote 43 on page 249) comprise our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions. Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax 24 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year. 25 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable. 26 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued. This does not include the fair value changes due to own credit spread on structured notes issued, derivatives and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities. 27 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 28 Individual reconciliations by global businesses and geographical regions are available on www.hsbc.com. 29 Underlying performance eliminates the effects of acquisitions, disposals and changes of ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and businesses so we can view results on a like-for-like basis. We achieve this by eliminating gains and losses on disposal or dilution in the year incurred and by removing material results of operations from all the years presented. For example, if a disposal was made in the current year after four months of operations, the results of the disposed of business would be removed from the results of the current year and the previous year as if the disposed of business did not exist in those years. 30 In addition, the operating results of these disposals were removed from underlying results. 31 The presentation of the ‘Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax’ for 2011 compared with 2010 has not been updated to reflect the change in presentation in 2012 splitting underlying reconciliations from the constant currency reconciliations. The presentational change had no material impact on results. 32 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals, gains on the dilution of interests in associates and/or movements in fair value of own debt 120 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) attributable to credit spread. The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year. 33 Excluding adjustments in 2010. Financial summary 34 In 2008, an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in ‘Total operating expenses’. This amount is excluded from ‘Total operating expenses’ in calculating the ratio. 35 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share. 36 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share. 37 For full description of the Ping An forward contract, see page 470. 38 In 2011, ‘Deferred variable compensation awards-accelerated amortisation’ was included as a notable cost item. In 2012, this item recurs but is now considered part of our operating cost base and therefore has been excluded from notable items in both years. 39 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in ‘Trading income’. In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&M’s net trading income as interest expense. 40 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’). 41 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds. 42 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA. 43 In 2011, ‘Other interest-earning assets’ includes the average assets of disposal groups held for sale. In prior years other interest-earning assets included intercompany eliminations. In 2012, intercompany eliminations have been included in the relevant line item. 44 Interest income on trading assets is reported as ‘Net trading income’ in the consolidated income statement. 45 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ in the consolidated income statement. 46 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only. 47 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value’ in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in ‘Interest expense’. 48 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only. 49 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$511m (2011: US$1,161m; 2010: US$902m) and is excluded from the reported ‘Net trading income’ line and included in ‘Net interest income’. However, this cost is reinstated in ‘Net trading income’ in our global business reporting. 50 Net trading income includes a charge of US$629m (2011: income of US$458m; 2010: income of US$23m), associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads. 51 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBC’s long-term debt issued. 52 Discretionary participation features. 53 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business. For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims. For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies. Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth. Consolidated balance sheet 54 Net of impairment allowances. 55 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2012 and 2011 is on a Basel 2.5 basis. All other comparatives are on a Basel II basis. 56 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 286. 57 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 33 on the Financial Statements. 58 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue. 59 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end. 60 See Note 26 on the Financial Statements. 61 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc. 62 The classification of customer accounts by country within Europe has changed from amounts formerly disclosed. Certain balances which were previously presented within the country of domicile of the consolidating legal entity are now presented on the basis of the country of account origination. The most significant effect of this change is on Switzerland, where the balance of US$45,283m previously disclosed at 31 December 2011 has been restated as US$19,888m on the new basis. Economic profit 63 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital. 64 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders’ equity after: – adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves (less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008); – deducting the average balance of HSBC’s revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use. This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold; – deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings; and – deducting average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities. 65 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 11 on the Financial Statements on page 426. 121 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 66 Risk-weighted assets (‘RWA’s) and pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’). 67 Underlying RoRWA is calculated using underlying pre-tax return and reported average RWAs at constant currency and adjusted for the effects of business disposals. 68 ‘Other’ includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off. US CML includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale. Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 69 The results of operations of disposed businesses are stated up to and including the date of disposal. The results of operations of businesses held for sale and run-off portfolios are for 2012. 70 The summary income statements present the historical results of disposals, held-for-sale and run-off portfolios to provide information on trends. The historical results are those which appear in the Group IFRS income statement and include fixed allocated costs which will not necessarily be removed or reduced upon disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs included in total operating expenses are disclosed separately on page 38. The results of disposed businesses exclude gains on sale and post disposal income and expenditure items; for example, restructuring costs. The results of businesses held for sale exclude losses recognised upon reclassification to the held-for-sale category. These losses are disclosed in Note 26 on the Financial Statements. 71 ‘US CML’ includes non-real estate personal loans that were reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ during 2012. At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of this portfolio, net of transferred impairment allowances, was US$3.4bn. The portfolio contributed interest income of US$813m and loan impairment charges of US$347m to profit before tax in 2012. ‘Other’ includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off. 72 ‘Reduction in RWAs on disposal’ for disposal and held-for-sale portfolios are shown exclusive of operational risk RWAs as these are not immediately released on disposal. RWAs for held-for-sale and run-off portfolios are shown inclusive of operational risk RWAs. Global businesses and geographical regions 73 The main items reported under ‘Other’ are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures, part of the movement in the fair value of our long-term debt designated at fair value (the remainder of the Group’s movement on own debt is included in GB&M) and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries. In addition, fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws together with the UK bank levy are recorded in ‘Other’. 74 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items. These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading ‘Intra-HSBC items’ or ‘inter-segment elimination’, as appropriate. 75 For divested businesses, this includes the gain or loss on disposal and material results of operations as described on page 26. 76 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 77 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures. 78 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received; in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated. 79 In 2012, Global Markets included an adverse fair value movement of US$629m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities (2011: favourable fair value movement of US$458m; 2010: favourable fair value movement of US$23m). 80 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$6.2bn (2011: US$5.6bn; 2010: US$4.4bn), of which US$4.5bn was in CMB (2011: US$4.0bn; 2010: US$3.3bn) and US$1.7bn was in GB&M (2011: US$1.5bn; 2010: US$1.1bn). 81 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$3.6bn (2011: US$3.2bn; 2010: US$2.7bn), of which US$2.8bn was in CMB relating to trade and receivables finance (2011: US$2.6bn; 2010: US$2.1bn) and US$753m was in GB&M of which US$738m related to trade and receivables finance (2011: US$601m; 2010: US$523m) and US$15m related to banknotes and other (2011: US$33m; 2010: US$113m). 82 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local Asset and Liability Management Committee. Balance Sheet Management also manages the non-trading interest rate positions of the entity transferred to it within a Global Markets limit structure. Balance Sheet Management revenues include notional tax credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments of US$116m in 2012, US$85m in 2011 and US$50m in 2010, which are offset within ‘Other’. 83 ‘Other’ in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding costs and gains resulting from business disposals. Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are allocated to the businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, for example notional credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax expense. In order to reflect the total operating income on an IFRS basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within ‘Other’. 84 ‘Client assets’ are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately. The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the Group’s balance sheet. 85 Inter-segment elimination comprises (i) the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within ‘Other’ which are recovered from global businesses, and (ii) the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M. HSBC’s Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses. To report GB&M’s ‘Net trading income’ on a fully funded basis, ‘Net interest income’ and ‘Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities’ are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column. 86 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 87 ‘Employee expenses’ comprise costs directly incurred by each global business. The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the ‘Other’ category are shown in ‘Other operating expenses’. 88 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 89 CMB results include US$128m (2011: US$110m) of net operating income and US$43m (2011: US$23m) of profit before tax, related to low income housing tax credit investments in the US which are offset within the ‘Other’ segment. 122 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Average balance sheet 90 Interest income on trading assets is reported as ‘Net trading income’ in the consolidated income statement. 91 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ in the consolidated income statement. 92 Brazilian operations comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.-Banco Múltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Serviços e Participações Limitada. 93 This includes interest-bearing bank deposits only. See page 36(d) for an analysis of all bank deposits. 94 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value’ in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in ‘Interest Expense’. 95 This includes interest-bearing customer accounts only. See page 36(e) for an analysis of all customer accounts. 96 Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. 97 For the purpose of calculating the ratios, earnings consist of income from continuing operations before taxation and non-controlling interests, plus fixed charges, and after deduction of the unremitted pre-tax income of associated undertakings. Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits, as appropriate, dividends on preference shares and other equity instruments, as applicable, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor. 98 Trading assets and financial investments held by GB&M in North America include financial assets which may be repledged or resold by counterparties. 99 Derivative assets and derivative liabilities of GB&M include derivative transactions between different regions of GB&M. 122a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters is material, either individually or in the aggregate. HSBC recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these matters when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. While the outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters as at 31 December 2012 (see Note 32). Securities litigation As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 State Attorneys General relating to real estate lending practices, Household International (now HSBC Finance) and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class action law suit, Jaffe v Household International Inc, et al No 2. C 5893 (N.D.Ill, filed 19 August 2002). The complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between 30 July 1999 and 11 October 2002. The claims alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which ultimately led to the 2002 State settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the restatement. A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs. Following post-trial briefing, the District Court ruled that various legal challenges to the verdict, including as to loss causation and other matters, would not be considered until after a second phase of the proceedings addressing issues of reliance and the submission of claims by class members had been completed. The District Court ruled on 22 November 2010 that claim forms should be mailed to class members to ascertain which class members may have claims for damages arising from reliance on the misleading statements found by the jury. The District Court also set out a method for calculating damages for class members who filed claims. As previously reported, lead plaintiffs, in court filings in March 2010, estimated that damages could range ‘somewhere between US$2.4bn to US$3.2bn to class members’, before pre-judgement interest. In December 2011, the report of the court-appointed claims administrator to the District Court stated that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate amount of these claims was approximately US$2.23bn. Defendants filed legal challenges asserting that the presumption of reliance was defeated as to the class and raising various objections with respect to compliance with the claims form requirements as to certain claims. In September 2012, the District Court rejected defendants’ arguments that the presumption of reliance generally had been defeated either as to the class or as to particular institutional claimants. In addition, the District Court has made various rulings with respect to the validity of specific categories of claims, and held certain categories of claims valid, certain categories of claims invalid, and directed further proceedings before a court-appointed Special Master to address objections regarding certain other claim submission issues. In light of those rulings and through various agreements of the parties, currently there is approximately US$1.37bn in claims as to which there remain no unresolved objections relating to the claims form submissions. In addition, approximately US$800m in claims remain to be addressed before the Special Master with respect to various claims form objections, with a small portion of those potentially subject to further trial proceedings. Therefore, based upon proceedings to date, the current range of a possible final judgement, prior to imposition of pre-judgement interest (if any), is between approximately US$1.37bn and US$2.17bn. With the imposition of pre-judgement interest calculated through 31 December 2012, the top-end of a possible final judgement is approximately US$2.7bn. The District Court may wait for a resolution of all disputes as to all claims before entering final judgement, or the District Court may enter a partial judgement on fewer than all claims pending resolution of disputes as to the remaining claims. Post-verdict legal challenges remain to be addressed by the District Court. Despite the jury verdict and the various rulings of the District Court, HSBC continues to believe that it has meritorious grounds for appeal of one or more of the rulings in the case, and intends to appeal the 122b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) District Court’s final judgement, partial or otherwise. Upon final judgement, partial or otherwise, HSBC Finance will be required to provide security for the judgement in order to suspend its execution while the appeal is on-going by either depositing cash in an interest-bearing escrow account or posting an appeal bond in the amount of the judgement (including any pre-judgement interest awarded). Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible damages. HSBC believes it has meritorious grounds for appeal on matters of both liability and damages and will argue on appeal that damages should be nil or a relatively insignificant amount. If the Appeals Court rejects or only partially accepts HSBC’s arguments, the amount of damages, based upon the claims submitted and the potential application of pre-judgement interest may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to somewhere in the region of US$2.7bn (or higher should plaintiffs successfully cross-appeal certain issues related to the validity of specific claims). Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC In December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme and a trustee was appointed for the liquidation of his firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), an SEC-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Since his appointment, the trustee has been recovering assets and processing claims of Madoff Securities customers. Madoff subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges and is serving a 150 year prison sentence. He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ money in securities and, upon request, return their profits and principal, he in fact never invested in securities and used other customers’ money to fulfil requests for the return of profits and principal. The relevant US authorities are continuing their investigations into his fraud, and have brought charges against others, including certain former employees and the former auditor of Madoff Securities. Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC to date, HSBC estimates that the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. Plaintiffs (including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee) have commenced Madoff-related proceedings against numerous defendants in a multitude of jurisdictions. Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions. Certain suits (which included four US putative class actions) allege that the HSBC defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s fraud and breached various duties to the funds and fund investors. In November 2011, the US District Court Judge overseeing three related putative class actions in the Southern District of New York dismissed all claims against the HSBC defendants on forum non conveniens grounds, but temporarily stayed this ruling as to one of the actions against the HSBC defendants – the claims of investors in Thema International Fund plc – in light of a proposed amended settlement agreement, pursuant to which, subject to various conditions, the HSBC defendants had agreed to pay from US$52.5m up to a maximum of US$62.5m. In December 2011, the court lifted this temporary stay and dismissed all remaining claims against the HSBC defendants, and declined to consider preliminary approval of the settlement. In light of the court’s decisions, HSBC terminated the settlement agreement. The Thema plaintiff contests HSBC’s right to terminate. Plaintiffs in all three actions have filed notices of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was completed in September 2012; oral argument is expected in early 2013. In November and December 2012, HSBC settled two of the individual claims commenced by investors in Thema International Fund plc against HSBC in the Irish High Court. In December 2010, the Madoff Securities trustee commenced suits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court. The US action (which also names certain funds, investment managers, and other entities and individuals) sought US$9bn in damages and additional recoveries from HSBC and the various co-defendants. It sought damages against HSBC for allegedly aiding and abetting Madoff’s fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. In July 2011, after withdrawing the case from the Bankruptcy Court in order to decide certain threshold issues, the US District Court Judge dismissed the trustee’s various common law claims on the grounds that the trustee lacks standing to assert them. In December 2011, the trustee filed a notice of appeal to the US Court of 122c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was completed in April 2012, and oral argument was held in November 2012. A decision is expected in 2013. The District Court returned the remaining claims to the US Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings. Those claims seek, pursuant to US bankruptcy law, recovery of unspecified amounts received by HSBC from funds invested with Madoff, including amounts that HSBC received when it redeemed units HSBC held in the various funds. HSBC acquired those fund units in connection with financing transactions HSBC had entered into with various clients. The trustee’s US bankruptcy law claims also seek recovery of fees earned by HSBC for providing custodial, administration and similar services to the funds. Between September 2011 and April 2012, the HSBC defendants and certain other defendants moved again to withdraw the case from the Bankruptcy Court. The District Court granted those withdrawal motions as to certain issues, and briefing and oral arguments on the merits of the withdrawn issues are now complete. The District Court has issued rulings on two of the withdrawn issues, but decisions with respect to all other issues are still pending and are expected in early 2013. The trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers of money from Madoff Securities to or through HSBC, on the grounds that the HSBC defendants actually or constructively knew of Madoff’s fraud. HSBC has not been served with the trustee’s English action. Between October 2009 and April 2012, Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (‘Fairfield’), funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the British Virgin Islands (‘BVI’) and the US against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who invested in the Fairfield funds. The Fairfield actions seek restitution of amounts paid to the defendants in connection with share redemptions, on the ground that such payments were made by mistake, based on inflated values resulting from Madoff’s fraud, and some actions also seek recovery of the share redemptions under BVI insolvency law. The actions in the US are currently stayed in the Bankruptcy Court pending developments in related appellate litigation in the BVI. There are many factors which may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings, including but not limited to the circumstances of the fraud, the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in such proceedings. For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all such claims but they could be significant. In any event, HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously. US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices. These consent orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board to align their processes with the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required. These consent orders required an independent review of foreclosures (the ‘Independent Foreclosure Review’) pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any customer was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. As required by the consent orders, an independent consultant was retained to conduct that review. On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board, pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review will cease and we will make a cash payment of US$96m into a fund that will be used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, will provide other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. These actions form HSBC’s portion of a larger agreement announced by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in January 2013 involving HSBC and twelve other mortgage servicers subject to foreclosure consent orders pursuant to which the mortgage servicers would pay, in the aggregate, in excess of US$9.3bn in cash 122d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) payments and other assistance to help eligible borrowers. Pursuant to these agreements, the Independent Foreclosure Reviews will cease and be replaced by a broader framework under which all eligible borrowers will receive compensation regardless of whether they filed a request for independent review of their foreclosure and regardless of whether the borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. Borrowers who receive compensation will not be required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be precluded from pursuing litigation concerning foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices. For participating servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance, fulfilment of the terms of these agreements will satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of these consent orders. These consent orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the consent orders. Pursuant to the agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, however, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has agreed that it will not assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with respect to past mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related practices addressed in the consent orders, provided the terms of the agreement are fulfilled. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s agreement not to assess civil money penalties is further conditioned on HSBC North America making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans within two years. The Federal Reserve Board has agreed that any assessment of civil money penalties by the Federal Reserve Board will reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans. In addition, the agreement does not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. Separate from the consent orders and settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, it has been announced that the five largest US mortgage servicers (not including HSBC Group companies) have reached a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HNAH, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. HSBC recognised provisions of US$257m in 2011 to reflect the estimated liability associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the US mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitisation trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and the related liability are properly those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. have been named as defendants in a number of actions in connection with residential mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. These include an action filed in September 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (‘FHFA’). This action is one of a series of similar actions filed against 17 financial institutions alleging violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with the sale of private-label RMBS purchased by Fannie 122e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Mae and Freddie Mac, primarily from 2005 to 2008. This action, along with all of the similar FHFA RMBS actions, was transferred to a single judge, who directed the defendant in the first-filed matter to file a motion to dismiss. In May 2012, the District Court filed its decision denying the motion to dismiss FHFA’s securities law claims and granting the motion to dismiss FHFA’s negligent misrepresentation claims. The District Court’s ruling will form the basis for rulings on the other matters, including the action filed against HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Subsequently, the defendant in the first-filed matter sought leave to appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on certain issues raised in the motion to dismiss. The District Court and the Court of Appeals granted the request for leave to appeal, and this appeal is pending before the Court of Appeals. In December 2012, the District Court directed the parties to schedule mediation with the Magistrate Judge assigned to this action. However, mediation has not yet been scheduled. In 2012, HSBC Finance received notice of several claims from claimants related to its activities as sponsor and the activities of its subsidiaries as originators in connection with RMBSs purchased between 2005 and 2007. The claims are currently being evaluated and discussions continue to be held with the claimants, but it has not been concluded that these claims are procedurally or substantively valid. In December 2010 and February 2011, HSBC Bank USA has received subpoenas from the SEC seeking production of documents and information relating to its involvement and the involvement of its affiliates in specified private label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. HSBC Bank USA has also had preliminary contacts with other government authorities exploring the role of trustees in private label RMBS transactions. In February 2011, HSBC Bank USA also received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s Office, Southern District of New York seeking production of documents and information relating to loss mitigation efforts with respect to residential mortgages in the State of New York. In January 2012, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. was served with a Civil Investigative Demand from the Massachusetts State Attorney General seeking documents, information and testimony related to the sale of RMBS to public and private customers in the State of Massachusetts from January 2005 to the present. HSBC expects this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the US real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, HSBC Group companies may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either individually or as a member of a group. HSBC is unable to estimate reliably the financial effect of any action or litigation relating to these matters. As situations develop it is possible that any related claims could be significant. Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the indirect parent of that company, HNAH, entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Federal Reserve Board (the ‘Orders’). These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across the Group’s US businesses, including various issues relating to US Bank Secrecy Act (‘BSA’) and anti-money laundering (‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the Orders to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, in December 2012, HSBC, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements to achieve a resolution with US and UK government agencies that have investigated HSBC’s conduct related to inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws, including the previously reported investigations by the DoJ, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the US Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (‘FinCEN’) in connection with AML/BSA compliance, including cross-border transactions involving our cash handling business in Mexico and banknotes business in the US, and the DoJ, the New York County District Attorney’s Office, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’), the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regarding historical transactions involving Iranian parties and other parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions. As part of the resolution, HSBC entered into a deferred prosecution agreement among HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, the DoJ, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of West Virginia (the ‘US DPA’), and a deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney, and consented to a cease and desist order and, along with HNAH, consented to a monetary penalty order with the 122f Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Federal Reserve. In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into the US DPA, an agreement and consent orders with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and a consent order with FinCEN. HSBC also entered into an undertaking with the UK Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’) to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to anti-money laundering and sanctions requirements over a five-year term. Under these agreements, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities and will continue to cooperate fully with US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action to strengthen their compliance policies and procedures. Over the five-year term of the agreement with the DoJ and FSA, an independent monitor (who will, for FSA purposes, be a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (‘FSMA’)) will evaluate HSBC’s progress in fully implementing these and other measures it recommends, and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of HSBC’s compliance function. If HSBC fulfils all of the requirements imposed by the US DPA and other agreements, the DOJ’s charges against it will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period. The US DPA remains subject to certain proceedings before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office may prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the US DPA if HSBC breaches the terms of the US DPA. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the US DPA and the FSA undertaking to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, the settlement with regulators does not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC’s compliance with applicable anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws. In July 2012, HSBC Mexico paid a fine imposed by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission amounting to 379m Mexican pesos (approximately US$28m), in connection with non-compliance with anti-money laundering systems and controls. US tax and broker-dealer investigations HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain Group companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting requirements. In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ and is cooperating with the investigation. Other HSBC entities are also cooperating with the relevant US authorities, including with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a summons from the US Internal Revenue Service directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. HSBC Bank USA has cooperated fully by providing responsive documents in its possession in the US to the US Internal Revenue Service. Also in April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a subpoena from the SEC directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records in the US related to, among other things, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA’s cross-border policies and procedures and adherence to US broker-dealer and investment adviser rules and regulations when dealing with US resident clients. HSBC Bank USA continues to cooperate with the SEC. HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA has also produced records and other documents to the SEC and is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. Based on the facts currently known in respect of each of these investigations, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the ongoing investigations will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amounts of any fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that any fines and/or penalties could be significant. Investigations and reviews into the setting of London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates Various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world including in the UK, the US, Canada, the EU, Switzerland and Asia, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. Several of these panel banks have reached settlements with various regulatory authorities. As certain HSBC entities are members of such panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory demands for information and are cooperating with those investigations and 122g Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) reviews. Based on the facts currently known, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the resolution of these regulatory investigations and reviews, including the timing. The potential impact and size of any fines or penalties that could be imposed on HSBC cannot be measured reliably. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of Libor, including putative class action lawsuits which have been consolidated before the US District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints in those actions assert claims against HSBC and other panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange Act, and state law. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact on HSBC. 122h Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Regulation and supervision (Unaudited) With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC Holdings complies with the relevant requirements for listing and trading on each of these exchanges. In the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’); in Hong Kong, The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (‘HKSE’); in the US, where the shares are traded in the form of ADSs, HSBC Holdings’ shares are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’). As a consequence of its US listing, HSBC Holdings is also subject to the reporting and other requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the New York Stock Exchange’s (‘NYSE’) Listed Company Manual, in each case as applied to foreign private issuers. In France and Bermuda, HSBC Holdings is subject to the listing rules of Euronext, Paris and the Bermuda Stock Exchange respectively, applicable to companies with secondary listings. A statement of our compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council and with the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code (formerly the Code on Corporate Governance Practice in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited) is set out in the ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance’ on page 301. Our operations throughout the world are regulated and supervised by over 450 different central banks and other regulatory authorities in those jurisdictions in which we have offices, branches or subsidiaries. These authorities impose a variety of requirements and controls designed to provide financial stability, transparency in financial markets and a contribution to economic growth. These regulations and controls cover, inter alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market liquidity, governance standards, customer protection (for example, fair lending practices, product design and marketing and documentation standards), and social responsibility obligations (for example, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, and anti-terrorist financing measures). In addition, a number of countries in which we operate impose rules that affect, or place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or controlled banks and financial institutions. The rules include restrictions on the opening of local offices, branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking and non-banking activities that may be conducted by those local offices, branches or subsidiaries; restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or regulations requiring a specified percentage of local ownership; and restrictions on investment and other financial flows entering or leaving the country. Country supervisory and regulatory regimes will determine to some degree our ability to expand into new markets, the services and products that we will be able to offer in those markets and how we structure specific operations. As a result of government interventions in response to global economic conditions, there has been (and it is expected that there will continue to be) a substantial increase in government regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the imposition of higher capital and liquidity requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of products or transaction structures. The FSA supervises the Group on a consolidated basis and it has certain limited direct supervisory powers over our holding company, HSBC Holdings. In addition, each operating bank, finance company or insurance operation within HSBC is regulated by local supervisors. The primary regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong Kong and the US, our principal jurisdictions of operation. However, and in addition, the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority, as the three European supervisory authorities, are also likely to have greater influence on the supervisory agenda and regulatory approach across the EU. Developments in the EU could lead to changes in how we are regulated and supervised on a day-to-day basis as each of these authorities develops its powers having regard to some of the regulatory initiatives highlighted in this report. UK regulation and supervision UK banking and financial services institutions are subject to multiple regulations. The primary UK statute in this context is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (‘FSMA’). Other UK financial services legislation includes that derived from EU directives relating to banking, securities, insurance, investments and sales of personal financial services. In addition to its role as our lead regulator, the FSA is responsible for authorising and supervising all our operating businesses in the UK which require authorisation under FSMA. These include deposit-taking, retail banking, life and general insurance, pensions, investments, mortgages, custody and share-dealing businesses and treasury and capital 122i Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) markets activity. HSBC Bank is our principal authorised institution in the UK. FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for the authorisation of banks and financial services businesses in the UK and the FSA has the right to object, on prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to hold, 10% or more of the voting power or shares of a financial institution that it regulates, or of its parent undertaking. It also sets out reporting (and, as applicable, consent) requirements with regard to large individual exposures and large exposures to related borrowers. In its capacity as our supervisor on a consolidated basis, the FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor, inter alia, their capital adequacy requirements. We calculate capital at a Group level using the Basel II framework of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation of this framework and also of the updated Basel III requirements and as such, local reporting may differ. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities. Basel II is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline. The Capital Requirements Directive (‘CRD’) implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the EU’s requirements in its own rulebooks. Further information on developments relevant to our prudential regulatory framework is set out in ‘Future developments’ on page 291. The FSA monitors authorised institutions through ongoing supervision and the review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to financial, prudential and conduct of business matters. The FSA may also obtain independent reports from a skilled person on the adequacy of procedures and systems covering internal control and governing records and accounting. The FSA meets regularly with our senior executives to discuss our adherence to the FSA’s prudential guidelines. In addition, it regularly discusses fundamental matters relating to our business in the UK and internationally, including areas such as strategic and operating plans, risk control, loan portfolio composition and organisational changes, including succession planning and recovery and resolution arrangements. During the year, we also participated in and satisfied various regulator-required stress tests. With the rapid pace of regulatory change and market conditions, we continue to experience a high level of ongoing interaction with the FSA. The UK financial services regulatory structure is currently in the process of substantial reform and legislation has been passed to abolish the FSA and establish three new regulatory bodies from 1 April 2013. These three bodies will comprise the Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’), the Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) under the control of the Bank of England (‘BoE’). The FPC will not directly supervise firms, being responsible for macro-prudential regulation and considering systemic risks affecting economic and financial stability. The PRA and the FCA will inherit the majority of the FSA’s existing functions as the micro-prudential supervisors. Some subsidiaries such as HSBC Bank will be a ‘dual-regulated’ firm, subject to prudential regulation by the PRA and to conduct regulation by the FCA. Within these reforms, the new regulatory bodies will gain additional powers. For example, under certain circumstances, the PRA and FCA will be able to issue directions to unregulated qualifying parent undertakings such as HSBC Holdings. FSMA is being substantially revised, to reflect these regulatory reforms. The FPC will have powers to give a direction to the FCA or the PRA on the exercise of their supervisory powers, and it may make recommendations within the BoE, to the Treasury, to the FCA or the PRA or to ‘other persons’. The UK Government is also proposing to make the FPC responsible for decisions on the countercyclical capital buffer (‘CCB’), a Basel III global requirement, to be applied to certain financial institutions in the United Kingdom. The CCB is a macro-prudential tool at the disposal of national authorities that can be deployed when the FPC judges that threats to financial stability have arisen in the UK increasing system-wide risk, and to protect the banking sector from future potential losses. Should a CCB be required, it is expected to be held in the range of 0-2.5%. It is also planned to give the FPC direction power, under the new legislation, over sectoral capital requirements (‘SCR’s). The SCR tool would allow the FPC to change capital requirements above minimum regulatory standards on exposures held by all UK banks to three broad sectors judged to pose a risk to the system as a whole (residential property, including mortgages; commercial property; and exposures to the financial sector), as well as more 122j Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) granular sub-sectors (for example, to mortgages with high loan-to-value or loan-to-income ratios at origination). This will include both banking book and trading book exposures and be irrespective of the domicile of the ultimate borrower. The CCB and SCR tools are stated as broad tools designed to reduce the likelihood and severity of financial crises, their primary purpose being to tackle cyclical risks. Both tools provide the FPC with means to increase the amount of capital that banks must have when threats to financial stability are judged to be emerging. However the amount of potential capital add-ons for SCR has not been quantified. There is also the proposal for a systemic risk buffer for the banking system as a whole (or a subset thereof) to mitigate structural macro prudential risk. There are a substantial number of other ongoing regulatory initiatives affecting the Group, driven by or from the UK. These include the UK bank levy, ongoing rule making regarding remuneration and recovery and resolution plans (‘RRP’) and the implementation of the recommendations of the UK Independent Commission on Banking (‘ICB’). Legislation in respect of the UK bank levy was substantively enacted in July 2011, in the form of the Finance Act 2011 and the levy has been applied since January 2011. HSBC is a UK banking group for these purposes and the UK levy is chargeable on the Group’s consolidated balance sheet at the year end. A charge of US$571m for the UK bank levy has been recognised in 2012 of which US$295m related to non-UK banking activity. The Financial Services Act 2010 (amongst other things), empowered the FSA to make rules about remuneration requiring all authorised firms to operate a remuneration policy which is consistent with the effective management of risks and the Financial Stability Board’s (‘FSB’) ‘Implementation Standards for Principles for Sound Compensation Practices’. In 2011, the FSA implemented the requirements of CRD III, which requires certain financial institutions, including banks and investment firms, to have in place remuneration policies that are consistent with effective risk management. While not changed in 2012, these requirements may be updated in 2013 by CRD IV, which remains subject to discussion and the timetable for finalisation and implementation is uncertain. In addition to the rules required by the FSA for the Group, individual legal entities may also be subject to their own local requirements. The Financial Services Act 2010 also empowered the FSA to make rules requiring authorised firms to prepare and keep up-to-date RRP. During 2012, the FSA set out the rules for the RRP for HSBC on a Group basis, with additional requirements specific to HSBC Bank. These rules may be amended by the European Recovery and Resolution Directive, a draft of which was published in June 2012, but this remains subject to discussion. In December 2012, the European Council called for the Council of the EU to reach agreement on the RRP by March 2013. In addition to the rules required by the FSA for the Group, individual legal entities may also be subject to their own local requirements. The ICB published its final report in September 2011 and the UK Government expressed broad approval for the principle of establishing a ring-fenced bank for retail banking activities and greater loss absorbing capacity. The UK Government subsequently undertook two stages of consultation on the ICB proposals during 2012. Draft primary legislation was presented to the UK’s Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards for pre-legislative scrutiny and they presented their initial findings on 21 December 2012. The UK Government is now considering if its original proposal should be adjusted in the light of those findings. The draft legislation did not incorporate many of the details set out in the final report from the ICB nor adjustments arising from the subsequent consultations. These details may be reflected in secondary legislation and underlying rules from supervisory authorities. In respect of UK universal banks, including HSBC’s major UK banking subsidiary, HSBC Bank, the ICB has proposed a separation of the UK retail and wholesale banking operations through the creation of a ring-fenced retail bank. A requirement is that all deposits and overdrafts for UK personal customers and smaller companies and payments services should be provided by this ring-fenced bank but it could also include banking services for larger customers. The UK Government also proposed that some simpler hedging activities could be undertaken within this bank. In addition, the ICB proposed that large UK-headquartered Groups (which would include HSBC) should have primary loss-absorbing capacity (‘PLAC’) equal to at least 17% of RWAs calculated under Basel III. This capacity should be satisfied by issuance of additional equity and/or debt that is loss-absorbing at the point of non-viability. The UK supervisor would retain the power to increase this minimum loss-absorbing capacity if it had concerns 122k Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) about the ability of the bank to restructure or liquidate at the point of failure. The Government has indicated that if a large UK-headquartered Group has non-UK subsidiaries which are demonstrably resolvable without an adverse effect on UK financial stability, they would be excluded from the calculation of the higher PLAC requirement. The ICB also recommended that a large ring-fenced bank should be required to maintain an equity ‘ring-fence buffer’ of at least 10% of RWAs, and the minimum leverage ratio of equity-to-total assets, as proposed under Basel III should be increased from 3.0% to 4.06% for larger banks. The UK Government has, however, proposed that the leverage ratio should revert to the original Basel III proposals. If the proposals described above are adopted substantially in the form prescribed, major changes to our corporate structure and business activities conducted in the UK through HSBC Bank might be required. The changes would include separating the ring-fenced bank from the existing UK incorporated universal bank. The proposals would take an extended period of time to implement and would significantly increase our costs, both from implementation and from running our operations as restructured. At a national level in the UK, other relevant regulatory initiatives include the FSA’s Retail Distribution and Mortgage Market Reviews and an ever greater focus on ‘conduct risk’ including attention to sales processes and incentives, product and investment suitability and conduct of business concerns more generally. Uncertainty remains about the details and timing of some of these reforms and the effect they will ultimately have on HSBC. These measures are concerned principally, but not exclusively, with the conduct of business with retail customers and in conjunction with this focus, the UK regulators are making increasing use of existing and new powers of intervention and enforcement, including powers to consider past business undertaken and implement customer compensation and redress schemes or other, potentially significant remedial work. Additionally, the UK and other regulators may increasingly take actions in response to customer complaints either specific to an institution or, more generally, in relation to a particular product. We have seen recent examples of this approach in the context of the mis-selling of payment protection insurance and of interest rate derivative products to SME. The UK and other regulators may identify future industry-wide mis-selling or other issues that could affect the Group. This may lead from time to time to: (i) significant direct costs or liabilities (including in relation to mis-selling); and (ii) changes in the practices of such businesses which benefit customers at a cost to shareholders. Further, decisions taken in the UK by the Financial Ombudsman Service in relation to customer complaints (or any overseas equivalent that has jurisdiction) could, if applied to a wider class or grouping of customers, have a material adverse effect on the operating results, financial condition and prospects of the Group. Hong Kong regulation and supervision Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions of the Banking Ordinance and to the powers, functions and duties ascribed by the Banking Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (the ‘HKMA’). The principal function of the HKMA is to promote the general stability and effective working of the banking system in Hong Kong. The HKMA is responsible for supervising compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance. The Banking Ordinance gives power to the Chief Executive of Hong Kong to give directions to the HKMA and the Financial Secretary with respect to the exercise of their respective functions under the Banking Ordinance. The HKMA has responsibility for authorising banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its authorisation. The HKMA requires that banks or their holding companies file regular prudential returns, and holds regular discussions with the management of the banks to review their operations. The HKMA may also conduct ‘on-site’ examinations of banks and, in the case of banks incorporated in Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and subsidiaries. The HKMA requires all authorised institutions to have adequate systems of internal control and requires the institutions’ external auditors, upon request, to report on those systems and other matters such as the accuracy of information provided to the HKMA. In addition, the HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite discussions with banks and their external auditors. The HKMA has the power to serve a notice of objection on persons if they are no longer deemed to be fit and proper to be controllers of the bank, if they may otherwise threaten the interests of depositors or potential depositors, or if they have contravened any conditions specified by the HKMA. The HKMA may revoke authorisation in the event of an institution’s non-compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance. These provisions require, among other 122l Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) things, the furnishing of accurate reports. The HKMA has implemented Basel II for all authorised institutions incorporated in Hong Kong and subsequently adopted Basel III from 1 January 2013, implementing in accordance with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s timetable, including transitional arrangements. The marketing of, dealing in and provision of advice and asset management services in relation to securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Entities engaging in activities regulated by the Ordinance are required to be licensed. The HKMA is the primary regulator for banks involved in the securities business, while the Securities and Futures Commission is the regulator for non-banking entities. US regulation and supervision We are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation in the US. Banking laws and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ‘Federal Reserve Board’), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the ‘OCC’) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ‘FDIC’) govern many aspects of our US business. Furthermore, since we have substantial operations outside the US which conduct many of their day-to-day transactions in US dollars which are ultimately cleared and settled in the US, HSBC entities’ operations outside the US are also subject to the extra-territorial effects of US regulation in many respects. The requirements of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered into by HSBC in December 2012 and described in this section under ‘Anti-money laundering and related regulation’ should also be noted in this context. In July 2010, the US enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (‘Dodd-Frank’), which provides a broad framework for significant regulatory changes that will extend to almost every area of US financial regulation. The implementation of Dodd-Frank requires further detailed rulemaking over several years by different US regulators, including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC’), the Financial Stability Oversight Council (‘FSOC’) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (‘Consumer Bureau’). Notwithstanding the time that has passed since Dodd-Frank was enacted, substantial uncertainty remains about many of the final details, timing and impact of the rules. The FSOC may take certain actions, including precluding mergers, restricting financial products offered, restricting or terminating activities or imposing conditions on activities or requiring the sale or transfer of assets, against any bank holding company with assets greater than US$50bn that is found to pose a grave threat to financial stability. The FSOC is supported by the Office of Financial Research (‘OFR’) which may impose data reporting requirements on financial institutions. The cost of operating both the FSOC and OFR will be paid for through an assessment on large bank holding companies. Over a transition period from 2013 to 2019, the Federal Reserve Board will apply more stringent capital and risk management requirements on bank holding companies such as HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’), which will require a minimum leverage ratio of 4% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. Also, failure to maintain a ratio of tier 1 common equity to RWAs of greater than 5% in simulated stress conditions will restrict HNAH from engaging in capital distributions such as dividends or share repurchases. In addition, large bank holding companies such as HNAH (or their parent companies) are now required to file resolution plans identifying material subsidiaries and core business lines domiciled in the US, describing what strategy would be followed in the event of significant financial distress and including identifying how insured bank subsidiaries are adequately protected from risk created by other affiliates. The failure to cure deficiencies in a resolution plan would enable the US regulators to impose more stringent capital, leverage and liquidity requirements, restrict the growth, activities or operations of the company or, if such failure persists, require the company to divest assets or operations. The Federal Reserve Board has also proposed a series of increased supervisory standards to be followed by large bank holding companies, and certain foreign banking organisations that meet particular thresholds including required remediation in the event of failure to meet capital requirements, stress testing requirements and risk management standards. Under the proposals, the Federal Reserve would also be able to restrict the size and growth of systemically significant non-bank financial companies and large interconnected bank holding companies, and would be able to require foreign banking organisations deemed systemically significant to restructure their US operations. In addition, the Federal Reserve has proposed to impose a 15-to-1 debt-to-equity ratio limit on non-bank financial companies, bank holding companies and the US operations of foreign banking organisations that the FSOC determines to pose a 122m Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. HSBC and its US operations are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a ‘bank holding company’ under the US Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (‘BHCA’), as a result of its control of HSBC Bank USA, N.A., McLean, Virginia (‘HSBC Bank USA’); and HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), N.A., Wilmington, Delaware (‘HTCD’). HNAH is also a ‘bank holding company’. Both HSBC and HNAH have elected to be financial holding companies (‘FHC’s) pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (the ‘GLB Act’) and, accordingly, may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. Under regulations implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, if any financial holding company, or any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company, ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve Board may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may require divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions or its affiliates engaged in broader financial activities in reliance on the GLB Act if the deficiencies persist. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the Federal Reserve Board must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. As reflected in the agreement entered into with the OCC on December 11, 2012 (the ‘GLBA Agreement’), the OCC has determined that HSBC Bank USA is not in compliance with the requirements set forth in 12 U.S.C. § 24a(a)(2)(c) and 12 C.F.R. § 5.39(g)(1), which provide that a national bank and each depository institution affiliate of the national bank must be both well capitalised and well managed in order to own or control a financial subsidiary. As a result, HSBC Bank USA and its parent holding companies, including HSBC, no longer meet the qualification requirements for financial holding company status, and may not engage in any new types of financial activities without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. If all of our affiliate US depositary institutions are not in compliance with these requirements within the time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, as they may be extended, HSBC could be required either to divest HSBC Bank USA or to divest or terminate any financial activities conducted in reliance on the GLB Act. Similar consequences could result for subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial activities in reliance on expanded powers provided for in the GLB Act. The GLBA Agreement requires HSBC Bank USA to take all steps necessary to correct the circumstances and conditions resulting in HSBC Bank USA’s noncompliance with the requirements referred to above. We have initiated steps to satisfy the requirements of the GLBA Agreement. The two US banks, HSBC Bank USA and HTCD, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the OCC, secondly by the FDIC, and by the Federal Reserve Board. Banking laws and regulations restrict many aspects of their operations and administration, including the establishment and maintenance of branch offices, capital and reserve requirements, deposits and borrowings, investment and lending activities, payment of dividends and numerous other matters. In addition, the FDIC requires FDIC-insured banks with US$50bn or more in total assets (such as HSBC Bank USA) to submit resolution plans that should enable the FDIC to resolve the bank in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution’s failure (two business days if the failure occurs on a day other than Friday), maximises the value from the sale or disposition of its assets and minimises the amount of any loss to be realised by the institution’s creditors. Large bank holding companies, including HNAH, became subject to the US rules adopted in 2007 that provided for the implementation of Basel II advanced approaches in the US. The US Basel II implementation timetable originally consisted of a parallel calculation period under the current regulatory capital regime (Basel I), followed by a three-year transitional ‘floor’ period, during which Basel II advance approaches risk-based capital requirements could not fall below certain floors based on Basel I regulations. 122n Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) In June 2011, the US banking agencies adopted final regulations to implement the ‘capital floor’ provision of the so-called ‘Collins Amendment’ of Dodd-Frank. These regulations eliminated the three-year transitional floor period in favour of a permanent floor based on the generally applicable risk-based capital rules (currently Basel I although the US banking agencies have proposed to replace Basel I with a modified version of the Basel II standarised approach beginning in 2015). Pursuant to these regulations, a banking organisation that has formally implemented the Basel II advanced approaches must calculate its capital requirements under Basel I and the Basel II advanced approaches, compare the two results, and then use the lower of such ratios for purposes of determining compliance with its minimum tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital requirements. Prior to adoption of the Basel II advanced approaches, HNAH is required to successfully complete a parallel run by measuring regulatory capital under both the new regulatory capital rules and the existing general risk-based rules for a period of at least four quarters. Successful completion of the parallel run period requires the approval of US regulators. We began the parallel run period, which encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align HSBC Bank USA with the Basel II advanced approaches final rule requirements, in January 2010. The timing of receipt of US regulatory approval is uncertain. The US banking agencies have published draft rules for the application of Basel III to US banking organisations but these have still to be finalised. As a result, the implementation did not commence on the original start date envisaged by the Basel Committee of 1 January 2013. In June 2012, the US banking agencies issued proposed rules that would (i) implement the Basel III capital framework in the United States; (ii) replace the current generally applicable risk-based capital rules (Basel I) with a modified version of the Basel II standarised approach; and (iii) remove from both the generally applicable risk-based rules and the Basel II advanced approaches rules all references to and reliance upon external credit ratings, as required under Dodd-Frank. The US banking agencies announced in November 2012 that due to the number and complexity of the public comments received on these draft rules, the US would not meet the Basel Committee’s target of 1 January 2013 for implementation of the Basel III capital framework. A more detailed description of Basel III can be found in ‘Future developments’ on page 291. Apart from the Basel II and Basel III rules regarding credit and operational risks, in June 2010, the Basel Committee agreed on certain revisions to the market risk capital framework (Basel 2.5) that would also result in additional capital requirements. In June 2011, the US banking agencies issued a final rule to amend the market risk capital rule to implement Basel 2.5 and the prohibition in Dodd-Frank on references to and reliance upon the use of external credit ratings in the US banking agencies’ regulations. The final market risk rule sets forth alternative methodologies to external credit ratings that must be used to determine the capital requirements applicable to certain debt and securitisation positions subject to the market risk capital rule. The US banking agencies have proposed similar methodologies in their June 2012 proposals to revise the generally applicable capital rules and the Basel II advanced approaches rules. HSBC Bank USA and HTCD are subject to risk-based assessments from the FDIC, which insures deposits generally to a maximum of US$250,000 per depositor for domestic deposits. Dodd-Frank provides for unlimited deposit insurance for certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts for the period to 31 December 2012. Due to projected shortfalls in the FDIC fund as a result of continuing bank failures, the FDIC required all insured banks, including HSBC Bank USA and HTCD, to prepay their insurance premium for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. Dodd-Frank changes the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment framework primarily by basing assessments on an FDIC-insured institution’s total assets less tangible equity rather than US domestic deposits, which is expected to shift a greater portion of the aggregate assessments to large FDIC-insured institutions. The new large bank pricing system will result in higher assessment rates for banks with high-risk asset concentrations, less stable balance sheet liquidity, or potentially higher loss severity in the event of failure. With effect from July 2013, Dodd-Frank and the applicable regulations of the OCC required that the lending limits applicable to HSBC Bank USA and HTCD take into account credit exposure from derivative transactions, securities borrowing and lending transactions, and repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. Our US consumer finance operations are subject to extensive state-by-state regulation in the US, and to laws relating to consumer protection (both in general, and in respect of sub-prime lending operations, which have been subject to enhanced 122o Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) regulatory scrutiny); discrimination in extending credit; use of credit reports; privacy matters; disclosure of credit terms; and correction of billing errors. They also are subject to regulations and legislation that limit operations in certain jurisdictions. Additionally in July 2012, part of Dodd-Frank commonly referred to as the ‘Volcker Rule’, came into force. The Volcker Rule will limit the ability of companies related to a US bank (including HSBC group companies outside the US) to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading. This is subject to a two-year ‘conformance period’, although the detailed rules have yet to be finalised. Dodd-Frank also provides regulators with tools to provide greater capital, leverage and liquidity requirements and other prudential standards, particularly for financial institutions that pose significant systemic risk. However, in imposing heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and other prudential standards on non-US banks, the Federal Reserve Board is directed to take into account the principle of national treatment and equality of competitive opportunity, and the extent to which the foreign bank is subject to comparable home country standards. As noted above, the Federal Reserve Board has issued draft enhanced supervisory standards that would apply to HSBC and the effect on HSBC is unclear. Furthermore, Dodd-Frank provides for an extensive framework for the regulation of over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivatives, including mandatory clearing, exchange trading and transaction reporting of certain OTC derivatives, as well as rules regarding the registration of swap dealers and major swap participants, and related capital, margin, business conduct, record keeping and other requirements applicable to such entities. These rules became effective in October 2012. Relevant Group companies are progressing applications for registration and we continue to assess how compliance with these new rules will affect our business. Dodd-Frank also grants the SEC discretionary rule-making authority to impose a new fiduciary standard on brokers, dealers and investment advisers, and expands the extraterritorial jurisdiction of US courts over actions brought by the SEC or the US with respect to violations of the anti-fraud provisions in the Securities Act, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. In addition, regulations which the FSOC, the Consumer Bureau or other regulators may adopt could affect the nature of the activities which our FDIC-insured depository institution subsidiaries may conduct, and may impose restrictions and limitations on the conduct of such activities. The ongoing implementation of Dodd-Frank and related final regulations could result in additional costs or limit or restrict the way we conduct our business, both in relation to our US operations and our non-US operations, although uncertainty remains about many of the details, impact and timing of these reforms and the ultimate effect they will have on HSBC. Global and regional prudential and other regulatory developments The Group is subject to regulation and supervision by a large number of regulatory bodies and other agencies. In addition to changes being pursued at a local level, changes are also being pursued globally through the actions of bodies such as the G-20, the FSB and Basel Committee, as well as regionally through the EU and similar. Key areas include the work of the FSB on global systemically important financial institutions (‘G-SIFI’s), the Basel Committee’s Basel III capital requirements, the EU’s measures to implement Basel III (referred to as ‘CRD IV’), and the EU’s proposed recovery and resolution framework. Recovery and resolution The FSB has been designated by the G-20 as the body responsible for coordinating the delivery of a global reform programme following the financial crisis, a key element of which is that no firm should be too big or too complicated to fail, and that taxpayers should not bear the cost of resolution. HSBC has been classified by the FSB as a G-SIFI and therefore will be subject to what the FSB refers to as a ‘multi-pronged and integrated set of policies’. These include proposals that would place an additional capital buffer on the Group and require enhanced reporting. The FSB also determined that recovery and resolution strategies should be developed for all G-SIFIs. Recovery plans set out the actions which management may take during a period of stress to avoid the failure of the firm. Resolution plans are prepared by the authorities based on information provided by firms and set out the actions which may be taken if the firm reaches the point of non-viability. This work is led by the FSA and the Bank of England in the case of the consolidated Group in conjunction with the regulators of HSBC’s largest operating entities which make up the Crisis Management Group (‘CMG’) for HSBC. 122p Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) In accordance with guidance from the FSB and UK requirements, HSBC has produced a recovery plan for the Group, drawing together many of the actions contained in stress testing and scenario planning exercises conducted within the Group. The recovery plan identifies a series of early warning signals indicative of developing financial stress and establishes triggers which, if breached, would precipitate pre-planned but urgent action from the Group. The plan also contains a series of recovery options to raise additional capital or funding for the Group or individual entities as appropriate. These options would be reviewed for applicability and feasibility once the cause and magnitude of the financial stress was evident. This recovery plan has been submitted to the FSA and the Bank of England in the UK and through them discussed with the CMG. HSBC has also provided the FSA, the Bank of England and CMG with information for them to determine a resolution strategy for the HSBC Group. The FSB notes that strategies could include a ‘single point of entry’ or ‘top down’ approach, where a group is resolved through intervention at the level of the holding or parent company; or a ‘multiple point of entry resolution’ (as described by the FSB) approach where separate resolution action may be taken at the level of operating subsidiaries. Given that HSBC primarily consists of a large number of separately incorporated and capitalised banking entities across different jurisdictions, HSBC considers the most appropriate resolution approach for the Group to be ‘multiple point of entry resolution’. This decision ultimately rests with the UK authorities in consultation with CMG members. In this scenario, where an individual banking entity within the Group is no longer viable, the resolution of that entity would be the responsibility of that entity’s local regulator and resolution authority. In order to support this approach, HSBC is working with the FSA, the Bank of England and its CMG to consider whether there are financial, managerial and operational linkages across the Group which might be barriers to effective resolution. HSBC is also working with the regulators and resolution authorities of a number of its banking entities to develop individual recovery and resolution plans for these entities. European regulation Through the UK’s membership of the EU, HSBC is both directly and indirectly subject to European financial services regulation. In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued two documents: ‘A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems’ and ‘International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring’, which together are commonly referred to as ‘Basel III’. These will be given effect across the EU via a recasting of CRD. The proposals have been issued in the form of a new Regulation and Directive, which collectively are known as CRD IV. These have been subject to extensive discussion but have still to be finalised. Proposals include: • Quality of capital: CRD IV requires a further strengthening and harmonisation of the criteria for eligibility of capital instruments with an emphasis on common equity as the principal component of tier 1 capital; • Capital buffers: proposals comprise a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs to be built up during periods of economic growth, aimed at ensuring the capacity to absorb losses in stressed periods that may span a number of years; and a countercyclical capital buffer to be built up when threats to stability emerge; • Derivatives and central counterparty clearing: higher capital requirements to be imposed for bilateral (uncleared) transactions, to incentivise the use of central clearing; • Counterparty credit risk: requirements for managing and capitalising counterparty credit risk are to be strengthened. In particular, an additional capital charge for potential losses associated with the deterioration in the creditworthiness of individual counterparties (Credit Valuation Adjustment or CVA) will be introduced; and • Liquidity and funding: a new minimum standard, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, designed to improve the short-term resilience of a bank’s liquidity risk profile, will be introduced after an observation and review period in 2015. In January 2013, the Basel Committee issued revisions to the later document significantly revising the liquidity coverage ratio, which requires banking organisations to hold high quality liquid assets that can be quickly and easily monetised to cover their liquidity needs over a 30-day liquidity stress scenario. A description of the estimated effect of adopting Basel III can be found in ‘Basel III’ on page 289. Additionally, and as a result of the ongoing challenges in the eurozone, the EU is now pursuing proposals for increased integration in the European banking system, referred to as ‘Banking Union’. 122q Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The first stage will be the introduction of a Single Supervisory Mechanism that will give ultimate responsibility for bank supervisory tasks for larger banks to the European Central Bank. Additional proposals are expected during 2013 on: • harmonised depositor protection schemes; and • a single European Recovery and Resolution Framework. The Banking Union is expected to apply on a mandatory basis to the 17 eurozone countries with some scope for other EU member states to opt in. The UK has indicated that it will not join the Banking Union. In February 2012, the European Commission appointed a High Level Expert Group under the Governor of the Bank of Finland, Erkki Liikanen, to consider potential structural changes in banks within the EU. The Liikanen Group presented its recommendations on 2 October 2012, which included the ring-fencing of certain market-making and trading activities from the deposit-taking and retail payments activities of major banks and possible amendments to the use of bail-in instruments as a resolution tool, as well as a number of other comments. The European Commission has held a consultation on the recommendations and may make its own proposals during 2013. The French Government has also made proposals to prohibit a limited range of trading activities within banks and these are now being subjected to parliamentary scrutiny. The relationship between the ICB proposals in the UK, the French proposals and the Liikanen proposals at the EU level has still to be clarified. The EU also continues to work on a Recovery and Resolution Directive (formerly the Crisis Management Directive), and a draft was published in June 2012. This is intended to provide a harmonised framework for the resolution of credit institutions across the EU. While setting out a general framework, the proposals delegated much of the detailed application to local supervisors. This proposal remains subject to discussion between EU bodies. See page 122p for more detail on the Group’s current approach to recovery and resolution. The EU also continues to pursue the development of markets, and conduct-related EU regulations such as the Short Selling Regulation and the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation, which are now being implemented, and a number of other EU regulations, are in the legislative process. For example, in 2013/2014 it is expected that the Markets in Financial Instrument Directive/ Regulation and the Market Abuse Directive/ Regulation will be finalised and will move into the implementation phase. Anti-money laundering and related regulation HSBC places a high priority on its obligations to deter money laundering and terrorist financing. HSBC policy requires that all Group companies should adhere to the letter and spirit of all applicable laws and regulations and we have policies, procedures and training intended to ensure that our employees know and understand our criteria for deciding when a client relationship or business should be evaluated as higher risk. In December 2012, HSBC reached agreement with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering (‘AML’) and sanctions law. This included a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (‘DPA’) with the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’). HSBC has also reached agreement to achieve a resolution with all other US government agencies that have investigated HSBC’s past conduct in relation to these issues, as well as finalising an undertaking with the UK FSA. Under these agreements, HSBC made payments totalling US$1,921m and must also continue to cooperate fully with regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action to strengthen its compliance policies and procedures. The duration of the agreements varies, and during the five-year DPA with the DoJ, and pursuant to the undertaking with the FSA, an independent monitor (who will for FSA purposes, be a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (‘FSMA’)) will evaluate and assess HSBC’s progress. In relation to the DPA, the Group has committed to take or continue to adhere to a number of remedial measures. Breach of the DPA at any time during its term may allow the DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office to prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPA. A number of measures to address requirements of the DPA and otherwise to enhance our AML and sanctions compliance framework have been taken during 2012 and/or are ongoing. These measures include work to: • adopt and enforce the most effective standards globally including a globally consistent approach to knowing and retaining our customers; • maximise information sharing for risk 122r Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) management purposes across HSBC to the extent permitted by law; • require all HSBC affiliates to complete due diligence on any other HSBC affiliate with which they have a correspondent banking relationship; • introduce a global risk filter which will standardise the way we do business in high risk countries; and • reinforce a consistent global sanctions policy. Additionally, we have substantially revised our governance framework in this area, appointing a new Chief Legal Officer with particular expertise and experience in US law and regulation, and creating and appointing experienced individuals to the new roles of Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Global Head of Regulatory Compliance. As part of our continuing evaluation of AML and sanctions risk, we also monitor our activities relating to the countries subject to US economic sanctions programmes administered by OFAC, as well as those subject to United Nations, UK and EU sanctions. HSBC Group Policy requires all Group companies to comply to the extent applicable with US law and regulation, including the country and individual sanctions promulgated by OFAC sanctions. This means that not only must US subsidiaries and US nationals comply with OFAC regulations, but that HSBC subsidiaries outside the US which are not US persons must not participate in US dollar business that would, if conducted by a US person, contravene the OFAC sanctions. We do not consider that our business activities with counterparties in, or directly relating to, these countries are material to our business, and such activities represented a very small part of the Group’s total assets at 31 December 2012 and total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012. Other HSBC Bank USA entered into a Consent Cease and Desist Order with the OCC, and HNAH entered into a Consent Cease and Desist Order with the Federal Reserve Board in October 2010. These Orders require improvement of our Compliance Risk Management Programme including AML controls across our US businesses. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of these Orders and to ensure that compliance and effective policies and procedures are maintained. Disclosures pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 added a new subsection (r) to section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act, requiring each issuer registered with the SEC to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports whether it or any of its affiliates have knowingly engaged in specified activities or transactions with persons or entities targeted by US sanctions programmes relating to Iran, terrorism, or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even if those activities are not prohibited by US law and are conducted outside the US by non-US affiliates in compliance with local laws and regulations. In order to comply with this new requirement, HSBC Holdings has requested relevant information from its affiliates globally. The following activities are disclosed in response to Section 13(r): Loans in repayment Between 2001 and 2005, the Project and Export Finance (PEF) division of HSBC arranged or participated in a portfolio of loans to Iranian energy companies and banks. All of these loans were guaranteed by European and Asian export credit agencies, and they have varied maturity dates with final maturity in 2018. For those loans that remain outstanding, we continue to seek repayment in accordance with our obligations to the supporting export credit agencies and, in all cases, with appropriate regulatory approvals. Details of these loans follow. We have 15 loans outstanding to an Iranian petrochemical and energy company. These loans are supported by the official Export Credit Agencies of the following countries: the United Kingdom, 122s Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) France, Germany, Spain, The Netherlands, South Korea and Japan. We continue to seek repayments from the company under the existing loans in accordance with the original maturity profiles. All repayments made by the Iranian company have received a licence or an authorisation from relevant authorities, and each loan received two repayments in 2012. Bank Melli and Bank Saderat acted as sub-participants in three of the aforementioned loans. In 2012, the repayments due to these banks under the loan agreements were paid into frozen accounts under licences or authorisations from relevant European governments. In 2002, we provided a loan to Bank Tejarat with a guarantee from the Government of Iran to fund the construction of a petrochemical plant undertaken by a UK contractor. This loan was supported by the UK Export Credit Agency. While the loan remains in existence and has been licensed by the relevant European government, no repayments were received in 2012 from Bank Tejarat. We also maintain sub-participations in five loans provided by other international banks to Bank Tejarat and Bank Mellat with guarantees from the Government of Iran. These sub-participations were supported by the Export Credit Agencies of Italy. The Netherlands, France, and Spain. The repayments due under the sub-participations were not received in 2012 and claims were settled by the relevant European Export Credit Agencies. Licences and relevant authorisations have been obtained from the competent authorities of the European Union in respect of the transactions. We also acted as the Agent under a loan provided to Bank Mellat by the Japan Bank for International Development. The loan matured and was repaid in 2012. Estimated gross revenue generated by these loans in repayment for 2012, which includes interest and fees, was US$6 million. Estimated net profit for 2012 was US$1.1 million. While we intend to continue to seek repayment, we do not intend to extend any new loans. Legacy contractual obligations related to guarantees Between 1996 and 2007, HSBC provided guarantees to a number of its non-Iranian customers in Europe and the Middle East for various business activities in Iran. In a number of cases, HSBC issued counter indemnities in support of guarantees issued by Iranian banks as the Iranian beneficiaries of the guarantees required that they be backed directly by Iranian banks. The Iranian banks to which HSBC provided counter indemnities included Bank Tejarat, Bank Melli, and the Bank of Industry and Mine. We have worked with relevant regulatory authorities to obtain licences where required and ensure compliance with laws and regulations while seeking to cancel the guarantees and counter indemnities. Several were cancelled in 2012, and 30 remain outstanding. The only relevant activity related to these guarantees in 2012 involved the payment of cancellation fees into frozen accounts of the relevant Iranian banks. Estimated gross revenue for 2012, which includes fees and/or commissions, was US$37,000. We do not allocate direct costs to fees and commissions and therefore have not disclosed a separate profits measure. We are seeking to cancel all relevant guarantees and do not intend to provide any new guarantees involving Iran. Cheque clearing Certain Iranian banks sanctioned by the United States continue to participate in official clearing systems in the UAE, Bahrain, Oman, Lebanon, Qatar, and Turkey. We have a presence in these countries and, as such, participate in the clearing systems. The Iranian banks participating in the clearing systems vary by location and include Bank Saderat, Bank Melli, Future Bank, and Bank Mellat. While we have attempted to restrict or terminate our role as paying or collecting bank, some cheque transactions with US-sanctioned Iranian financial institutions have been settled. Our ability to effectively terminate or implement cheque-clearing restrictions is dependent on the relevant central banks permitting us to do so unilaterally. Where permitted, we have terminated the activity altogether, implementing both automated and manual controls. There is no measurable gross revenue or net profit generated by this activity in 2012. Other relationships with Iranian banks Activity related to US-sanctioned Iranian banks not covered elsewhere in this disclosure includes the following: • We maintain a frozen account in the UK for an Iranian-owned, FSA-regulated financial institution. In April 2007, the UK government issued a licence to allow us to handle certain transactions (operational payments and 122t Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) settlement of pre-sanction transactions) for this institution. There was some licensed activity in 2012. • We act as the trustee and administrator for pension schemes involving three employees of a US-sanctioned Iranian bank in Hong Kong. Under the rules of these schemes, we accept contributions from the Iranian bank each month and allocate the funds into the pension accounts of the three Iranian bank employees. We run and operate these schemes in accordance with Hong Kong laws and regulations. • In 2010, we closed our representative office in Iran. We maintain a local account with a US-sanctioned Iranian bank in Tehran in order to facilitate residual activity related to the closure. Most account activity in 2012 involved the payment of associated local professional fees. • We provide local currency clearing services to banks in the UK that maintain frozen accounts for sanctioned Iranian banks. We have processed payments received from or destined to those accounts on a case-by-case basis only as permitted under relevant UK licences. Estimated gross revenue for 2012 for all Iranian bank-related activity described in this section, which includes fees and/or commissions, was US$7,000. We do not allocate direct costs to fees and commissions and therefore have not disclosed a separate profits measure. We intend to continue to wind down this Iranian bank-related activity and not enter into any new such activity. Iranian embassy-related activity We maintain a bank account in London for the Iranian embassy in London, which is used for official embassy business and supporting Iranian students studying in the UK. The main embassy account was closed following the expulsion of diplomats by the UK early in 2012. There have been some transactions in 2012. We have also processed a limited number of payments on behalf of customers to Iranian embassies in other locations. Estimated gross revenue for 2012 from embassy-related activity, which includes fees and/or commissions, was US$13,000. We do not allocate direct costs to fees and commissions and therefore have not disclosed a separate profits measure. Frozen accounts and transactions We maintain several accounts that are frozen under relevant sanctions programmes and on which no activity took place during 2012. In 2012, we also froze payments with an Iranian interest where required under relevant sanctions programmes. There was no gross revenue or net profit. Activity related to US Executive Order 13224 In 2012, we maintained two personal accounts and one business account in the UK for two individuals sanctioned by the US under Executive Order 13224. Both of these individuals were delisted by the UK and the UN Security Council in 2012, the relevant accounts were frozen prior to delisting. The customers have been notified that the accounts are being closed. We maintained a frozen personal account for an individual sanctioned under Executive Order 13224, and by the UK and the UN Security Council. Activity on this account in 2012 was permitted by a licence issued by the UK. Estimated gross revenue in 2012 for the activity above, which includes fees and/or commissions, was US$1,200. We do not allocate direct costs to fees and commissions and therefore have not disclosed a separate profits measure. We also hold an account and have an outstanding loan for a partnership that included one individual sanctioned under Executive Order 13224. The account is in overdraft, and the loan is in arrears. The individual was delisted by the UK and the UN Security Council in 2011. Activity in 2012 consisted of principal repayments on the loan. Attempts will be made to obtain full repayment of the loan, and the account will be closed. There was no gross revenue or net profits recognised in 2012 for the activity on this loan. 122u Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risk Page App1 Risk profile2 123 Risk governance 252 Managing risk2 124 Risks faced by HSBC 124 Risk culture 124 Risk governance and ownership 124 Risk profile 126 Risk appetite 126 Stress testing 127 Areas of special interest 128 Compliance 128 Commercial real estate 128 Eurozone crisis 129 Personal lending – US lending 130 Top and emerging risks2 130 Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 131 Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model 132 Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems 134 Credit risk4 137 252 Eurozone exposures4 192 Liquidity and funding3 203 261 Market risk4 217 265 Operational risk2 227 270 Compliance risk 230 271 Fiduciary risk 231 273 Risk management of insurance operations3 232 273 Other material risks2 246 Reputational risk 246 278 Pension risk 246 278 Sustainability risk 249 280 1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 2 Unaudited. 3 Audited. 4 Audited where indicated. For details of HSBC’s policies and practices regarding risk management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on page 252. Risk profile (Unaudited) Managing our risk profile • A strong balance sheet remains core to our philosophy. • Our portfolios remain aligned to our risk appetite and strategy. • Our risk management framework is supported by strong forward-looking risk identification. Maintaining capital strength and strong liquidity position • Our core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong at 12.3%. • We have sustained our strong liquidity position throughout 2012. • Our ratio of customer advances to deposits remains below 90%. Strong governance • Robust risk governance and accountability is embedded across the Group. • The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, approves our risk appetite. • The compliance control function is being restructured and expanded to improve focus on financial crime and regulatory compliance. • Our global risk operating model supports adherence to globally consistent standards and risk management policies across the Group. Our top and emerging risks • Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk. • Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risk to our business model. • Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems. 123 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Managing risk (Unaudited) Risks faced by HSBC All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of risks or combinations of risks. These are described in the table below. Risk culture All staff are required to identify, assess and manage risk within the scope of their assigned responsibilities. Our global standards set the tone from the top and are central to our approach to balancing risk and reward. Personal accountability is reinforced by our HSBC Values, with staff expected to act with courageous integrity in conducting their duties and being: • dependable, doing the right thing; • open to different ideas and culture; and • connected to our customers, regulators and each other. Staff are supported by a disclosure line which enables them to raise concerns in a confidential manner. We also have in place a suite of mandatory training to ensure a clear and consistent attitude is communicated to staff; our mandatory training not only focuses on the technical aspects of risk but also on our attitude towards risk and the behaviours expected by our policies. Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to remuneration, which is discussed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 347. Individual awards are based on the achievement of both financial and non-financial (relating to our values) objectives which are aligned to our global strategy. Risk governance and ownership An established risk governance framework and ownership structure ensures oversight of and accountability for the effective management of risk at Group, regional and global business levels. The governance structure for the management of risk is set out in the report of the Group Risk Committee on page 323, with similar arrangements in place in major operating subsidiaries. This structure has been augmented by the establishment of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, details of which are set out on page 328. Our risk management framework fosters the continuous monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of risks and their interactions. Integral to our risk management framework are risk appetite, stress testing and the identification of top and emerging risks, all of which are discussed below. Description of risks Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Credit risk The risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from certain other products such as guarantees and derivatives. Credit risk: • is measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to make repayments. In the case of derivatives, the measurement of exposure takes into account the current mark to market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential change in that value over time caused by movements in market rates; • is monitored within limits, approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities. These limits represent the peak exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations; and • is managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers. Liquidity and funding risk The risk that we do not have sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due or that we can only do so at excessive cost. Liquidity risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows. Funding risk arises when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required. Liquidity and funding risk: • is measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash flow projections, coverage ratio and advances to core funding ratios; • is monitored against the Group’s liquidity and funding risk framework and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management Committees (‘ALCO’s), Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting; and • is managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity (unless pre-committed) or central bank unless this represents routine established business as usual market practice. 124 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Market risk The risk that movements in market factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our portfolios. Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: • Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions • Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations Market risk: • is measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence, augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables; • is monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are applied to the market risk positions within each risk type; and • is managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings and our various global businesses. These units are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk (along with accounting, tax, security and fraud, people, systems, projects, operations and organisational change risk). Operational risk arises from day to day operations or external events, and is relevant to every aspect of our business Operational risk: • is measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and effectiveness of controls; • is monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities; and • is primarily managed by global business and functional managers. They identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage them and monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the operational risk management framework. The Global Operational Risk and Internal Control function is responsible for the framework and for overseeing the management of operational risks within businesses and functions. Compliance risk The risk that we fail to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice, and incur fines and penalties and suffer damage to our business as a consequence. Compliance risk is part of operational risk, and arises from rules, regulations, other standards and Group policies, including those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, conduct of business, counter- terrorist financing and sanctions compliance. Compliance risk: • is measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments (whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry), regulatory feedback and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global businesses and functions; • is monitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of defence functions, including the Global Compliance function, and the results of internal and external audits and regulatory inspections; and • is managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to assure their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is undertaken where required. Insurance risk The risk that over time, the combined cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. Insurance risk arises from mortality and morbidity experience. Lapse and surrender rates and if, the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities also impact the cost of claims and benefits. The performance of assets supporting insurance liabilities depends on financial risks such as market, credit and liquidity. Insurance risk: • is measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and non-life written premiums for their respective contract types; • is monitored by the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee, which checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB; and • is managed both centrally and locally using product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures. 125 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Fiduciary risk The risk of breaching our fiduciary duties. Fiduciary risk arises from our business activities where we act in a fiduciary capacity as Trustee, Investment Manager or as mandated by law or regulation. Fiduciary risk: • is measured by monitoring against risk appetite; • is monitored through the use of key indicators; and • is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework. Reputational risk The risk that illegal, unethical or inappropriate behaviour by the Group itself, members of staff or clients or representatives of the Group will damage HSBC’s reputation, leading, potentially, to a loss of business, fines or penalties. Reputational risk encompasses negative reaction not only to activities which may be illegal or against regulations, but also to activities that may be counter to societal standards, values and expectations. It arises from a wide variety of causes, including how we conduct our business and the way in which clients to whom we provide financial services, and bodies who represent HSBC, conduct themselves. Reputational risk: • is measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers and employees; • is monitored through a reputational risk management framework, taking into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring activity outlined above; and • is managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of policies and guidelines. There is a clear structure of committees and individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional/business equivalents. Pension risk The risk that contributions from Group companies and members fail to generate sufficient funds to meet the cost of accruing benefits for the future service of active members, and the risk that the performance of assets held in pension funds is insufficient to cover existing pension liabilities. Pension risk arises from investments delivering an inadequate return, economic conditions leading to corporate failures, adverse changes in interest rates or inflation, or members living longer than expected (longevity risk). Pension risk includes operational risks listed above. Pension risk: • is measured in terms of the schemes’ ability to generate sufficient funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits; • is monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed at both Group and regional levels; and • is managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting. Sustainability risk The risk that the environmental and social effects of providing financial services outweigh the economic benefits. Sustainability risk arises from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development. Sustainability risk: • is measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a customer’s activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to all high risk transactions; • is monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly by Group Sustainability Risk management; and • is managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high environmental or social impacts. Risk profile Risks are assumed by our global businesses in accordance with their risk appetite and are managed at Group, global business and regional levels. All risks are identified through our risk map process, which sets out the Group’s risk profile in relation to key risk categories in different regions and global businesses. In addition to those listed above, risks including model, financial management, capital, Islamic finance and strategic risk are identified and monitored through the risk map process. These risks are then regularly assessed through our risk appetite framework, subjected to stress testing and considered for classification as top and emerging risks. These processes are discussed in further detail below. Credit, market and operational risks are measured using the Pillar 1 framework for regulatory capital through the allocation of risk-weighted assets. We measure other risks using our economic capital model under Pillar 2 (as described in our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report.) Risk appetite Risk appetite is set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, which describes the types and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing our strategy. It is approved by the Board on the advice of the Group Risk Committee, and is a key component of our risk management framework. It is central to the annual planning process, in which global businesses, geographical regions and functions are required to articulate their risk 126 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) appetite statements. These are aligned with Group strategy, and provide a risk profile of each global business, region or function in the context of the risk categories discussed above. Quantitative and qualitative metrics are assigned to nine key categories: earnings, capital, liquidity and funding, securitisations, cost of risk, intra-group lending, strategic investments, risk categories and risk diversification and concentration. Measurement against the metrics: • guides underlying business activity, ensuring it is aligned to risk appetite statements; • informs risk-adjusted remuneration; • enables the key underlying assumptions to be monitored and, where necessary, adjusted through subsequent business planning cycles; and • promptly identifies business decisions needed to mitigate risk. Some of the core metrics that are measured, monitored and presented to the Board monthly are tabulated below: Risk appetite metrics Target Actual Core tier 1 ratio 9.5% to 10.5% 12.3% Return on equity 12% to 15% 8.4% Return on RWAs 1.8% to 2.6% 1.8% Dividend payout ratio 40% to 60% 55.4% Cost efficiency ratio 48% to 52% 62.8% Advances to customer accounts ratio Below 90% 74.4% Cost of risk (LICs) Below 20% of operating income 9.9% Stress testing Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme is central to the monitoring of top and emerging risks. We conduct a range of Group stress-testing scenarios including, but not limited to, severe global economic downturn, country, sector and counterparty failures and a variety of projected major operational risk events. The outcomes of the stress testing are used to assess the potential demand for regulatory capital under the various scenarios. We also participate, where appropriate, in scenario analyses requested by regulatory bodies. In the course of 2012, we examined several scenarios reflecting potential developments in the eurozone and more widely. Those reported to senior management during 2012 included an assessment of the annual operating plan 2012 under two macroeconomic stress scenarios, as described below. The results of the two scenarios demonstrated that HSBC would remain satisfactorily capitalised under the mild and severe scenarios after taking account of assumed management actions. In addition to the suite of risk scenarios considered for the Group, each major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region. Stress testing is used across risk categories such as market risk, liquidity and funding risk and credit risk to evaluate the potential impact of stress scenarios on portfolio values, structural long-term funding positions, income or capital. Stress scenario assumptions Scenario Mild scenario assumptions Severe scenario assumptions Assumptions • the situation in Greece worsens and there is an orderly default in Greece; • Greek banks also default and, with support from the EU and the International Monetary Fund, are bailed out; • increasing bond yields in Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy trigger further fiscal austerity measures, and governments strive to disassociate their countries from Greece; • through financial and trade linkages, an orderly default in Greece results in the spread of contagion to the rest of the world; • the UK, US and emerging markets are adversely affected, albeit to varying degrees; and • slower global demand curbs growth and increases the risk premium on interest rates as well as commodity prices. • a disorderly default in Greece, where the eurozone governments are unable to ring-fence peripheral countries and their banks; • default of Portugal and Ireland with increases in bond yields for high debt countries; • the ensuing credit crunch together with declining business and consumer confidence more than offset any relief gained from the depreciation of the euro; • investors become increasingly uncomfortable with the US and the UK’s fiscal positions, with the severe scenario resulting in a global slowdown; and • emerging economies are less affected by the financial shock. 127 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) We also conduct reverse stress testing. Reverse stress testing is a process of working backwards from the event of non-viability of the business model to identification of a range of events that could bring that event about. Non-viability might occur before the bank’s capital is depleted, and could result from a variety of events. These include idiosyncratic, systemic or combinations of events, and/or could imply failure of the Group’s holding company or one of its major subsidiaries and does not necessarily mean the simultaneous failure of all the major subsidiaries. We use reverse stress testing as part of our risk management process to strengthen resilience by helping to inform early-warning triggers, management actions and contingency plans to mitigate against potential stresses and vulnerabilities which the Group might face. Areas of special interest (Unaudited) Compliance In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of compliance risk as regulators and other agencies pursued investigations into historical activities, and we continued to work with them in relation to existing issues. Manifestation of these risks included an appearance before the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and the Deferred Prosecution Agreement reached with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions law, plus a related undertaking with the FSA. We have also been involved in investigations into the mis-selling of interest rate derivative products to SMEs in the UK and investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the process for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. With a new senior leadership team and a new strategy in place since 2011, we have already taken significant steps to address these issues including making changes to strengthen compliance, risk management and culture. These steps, which should also enhance our compliance risk management capabilities, include the following: • the creation of a new global structure which will make HSBC easier to manage and control; • simplifying our business through the ongoing implementation of our organisational effectiveness programme and our five economic filters strategy; • developing a sixth global risk filter which should help to standardise our approach to doing business in higher risk countries; • substantially increasing resources, doubling global expenditure and significantly strengthening Compliance as a control (rather than as an advisory) function; • continuing to roll out the HSBC Values programme that defines the way everyone in the Group should act; • appointing a new Chief Legal Officer and Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance with particular expertise and experience in US law and regulation; • appointing a new Global Head of Regulatory Compliance and starting to restructure the Global Compliance function accordingly; • designing and implementing new global standards by which we conduct our businesses; and • enforcing a consistent global sanctions policy. It is clear from both our own and wider industry experience that the level of activity among regulators and law enforcement agencies in investigating possible breaches of regulations has increased, and that the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can be significant. Coupled with a substantial increase in the volume of new regulation, much of which has some element of extra-territorial reach, and the geographical spread of our businesses, we believe that the level of inherent compliance risk that we face as a Group will continue to remain high for the foreseeable future. Commercial real estate Our exposure to commercial real estate lending continued to be concentrated in Hong Kong, the UK, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America. The market in Hong Kong and most other Asian markets in which we conduct commercial real estate lending, after relative buoyancy in 2011, began to stabilise in 2012, partly due to initiatives taken by various supervisory authorities. In the UK, many regions were negatively affected by weak growth in the economy, though London and the South East, where more than 50% of our UK CRE lending is based, continued to exhibit relative strength. In North America, the market remained stable, in part supported by the continued low levels of interest rates. 128 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Refinance risk, which is subject to close scrutiny in key commercial real estate markets, is the risk that a loan which is due to be repaid through refinancing over the short term cannot, at maturity, be refinanced on current market terms. Such cases may either lead to the loan being treated as impaired because the borrower’s ability to pay is considered doubtful or, if refinanced by HSBC, may result in it being treated as a renegotiated loan because of the degree of forbearance required (see page 158 for a description of renegotiated loans). In commercial real estate markets, refinance risk can arise particularly when a loan is serviced exclusively by the property to which it relates, i.e. when the bank does not, or is not able to, place principal reliance on other cash flows available to the borrower. We monitor the commercial real estate portfolio, assessing those drivers that may indicate potential issues with refinancing. The principal driver is the vintage of the loan, where origination reflected previous market norms which no longer apply in the current market. Examples are higher loan-to-value ratios and/or lower interest cover ratios. The range of refinancing sources in the local market is also an important consideration, with concern increasing when this is restricted to banks and when bank liquidity is limited. In addition, the quality of underlying fundamentals such as tenant reliability, ability to let, and the condition of the property itself is also important, as it influences property value. With the exception of the UK, in our material commercial real estate portfolios globally, the behaviour of the market and the quality of assets does not cause undue concern. In the UK, the above drivers combine to cause a concern regarding our sensitivity to risks of refinance that warrant enhanced management attention. At 31 December 2012, the UK had US$24.5bn of commercial real estate loans, of which US$7.4bn were due to be refinanced within the next 12 months, of which US$2.4bn were assessed as possessing characteristics that indicated an increased risk of refinancing difficulty. Such cases are monitored closely with US$1.9bn already under special management within our Loan Management Units. US$0.9bn were disclosed as impaired with impairment allowances of US$0.4bn. Where these loans are not considered impaired it is because, while they may possess characteristics that indicate a potential issue with refinancing, as described above, there is no evidence to indicate that all contractual cash flows will not be recovered or that the loans will need to be refinanced on terms we would consider below market norms. The relevance of current market conditions to impairment assessment is particularly relevant over a 12-month period. Over a 12 to 24-month horizon, US$3.3bn of UK commercial real estate and other property-related lending loans are due to be refinanced. Reviews of more sensitive assets due between 12 and 24 months have been conducted to ensure that there are no further cases currently requiring special management or that should be considered impaired. Eurozone crisis Eurozone countries are members of the EU and part of the euro single currency bloc. The peripheral eurozone countries are those that have exhibited levels of market volatility that exceeded other eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or political uncertainty which may persist through the first half of 2013. In 2012, in spite of improvements through austerity and structural reforms, the peripheral eurozone countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus continued to exhibit a high ratio of sovereign debt to GDP or short to medium-term maturity concentration of their liabilities, with Greece, Spain and Cyprus seeking assistance. Exposure to eurozone countries is analysed in the table on page 193. Risk reduction in 2012 At 31 December 2012, our net exposure to the peripheral eurozone countries was US$38bn, including net exposure to sovereign borrowers, agencies and banks of US$12bn. During the year, we continued to reduce our overall net exposure to sovereigns, agencies and banks of peripheral eurozone countries. In addition, we continued to actively reduce exposures to counterparties domiciled in other eurozone countries that had exposures to sovereigns and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their on-going viability in the event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current crisis. This was undertaken through an analysis of publicly available information, reviews of external analyst reports and meetings with the counter-parties’ officials. Vulnerable counterparties were identified and subjected to enhanced monitoring, and our exposure was managed in a similar manner to the monitoring and management of direct exposures to the peripheral eurozone countries. One of the primary issues underpinning this process was the management of our surplus liquidity, resulting in the 129 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) placement of funds directly with central banks in the most highly-rated countries. Our businesses in peripheral eurozone countries are funded from a mix of local deposits, local wholesale funding and intra-Group loans extended from HSBC operations with surplus funds. Intra-Group funding carries the risk that a member country might exit the eurozone and redenominate its national currency, which could result in a significant currency devaluation. A description of risks relating to currency redenomination in the event of the exit of a eurozone member is provided on page 131. Risk management and contingency planning There is an established framework for dealing with counterparty and systemic crisis situations, both regionally and globally, which is complemented by regular specific and enterprise-wide stress testing and scenario planning. The framework functions both in pre and in-crisis situations and ensures that we have detailed operational plans in the event of an adverse scenario materialising. It was deployed in 2011 and has continued to operate throughout 2012 to ensure that pre-crisis preparation remains apposite and robust. The main focus of preparation for eurozone exit continues to be on Greece and Spain although, as the eurozone situation has developed in 2012, we have also considered other scenarios including contagion risk to non-eurozone countries or the exit of a higher impact eurozone member. Management actions include regular meetings of a Eurozone Major Incident Group and a tested regional eurozone contingency plan covering all global businesses and functions. The plan considers payments, legal, client account, internal and external communication and regulatory and compliance issues associated with eurozone breakup. Personal lending – US lending The slight improvement in US economic conditions continued throughout 2012. Real GDP grew by 2.2% and consumer spending growth remained moderate. Threats to economic growth remained, primarily with the uncertainty in the housing market and elevated unemployment levels, although both of them demonstrated modest improvements during the year. We remained focused on managing the run-off of balances in our HSBC Finance portfolio and completed the sales of our US Card and Retail Services business and 195 retail branches principally in upstate New York in 2012. Total lending balances, including loans held for sale, within HSBC Finance were US$43bn at 31 December 2012, a decline of US$6.8bn compared with the end of 2011. The rate at which balances in the CML portfolio are declining continues to be affected by the lack of refinancing opportunities available to customers and the continued impact of the temporary suspension of foreclosure activity in 2010. Foreclosure processing has now resumed in substantially all states, although there continues to be a backlog of loans which have not yet been referred to foreclosure. In addition, our loan modification programmes, which are designed to improve cash collections and avoid foreclosure, continued to slow repayment rates. In the third quarter of 2012, we reclassified non-real estate personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, net of impairment allowances, from our consumer finance portfolio to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively marketed the portfolio. We also identified real estate secured loan balances, with a carrying amount of US$3.8bn which, as part of our strategy, we have announced that we plan to actively market in multiple transactions generally over the next two years. At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of the non-real estate and the real estate secured loans which we intend to sell was approximately US$1bn greater than their estimated fair value. We expect to recognise a loss on sale for these loans over the next few years, the actual amount of which will depend on market conditions at the time of the sales. Total mortgage lending in the US was US$55bn at 31 December 2012, a decline of 7% compared with the end of 2011, mainly due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio. Top and emerging risks (Unaudited) Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is integral to our approach to risk management. We define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regions or global businesses and has the potential to have a material impact on our financial results or our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise within a one-year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes that may form beyond a one-year horizon which, if they were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy. Our top and emerging risk framework enables us to focus on current and forward looking aspects of our risk exposures and ensure our risk profile remains in line with our risk appetite and that our appetite remains appropriate. Our current top and emerging risks are as follows: 130 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk • Emerging market slowdown. • Macroeconomic risks within developed economies. • Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions. Emerging market slowdown World growth is slowing as demand in mature economies is subdued and credit availability and investment activity remain constrained. A number of mature economies are implementing austerity measures in order to reduce their deficits and public debt. This is expected to help resolve the sovereign and banking crisis in the medium term but, in the short term, it is limiting growth, leaving labour markets weak and thereby making fiscal consolidation a bigger challenge. This is affecting the rest of the world through lower trade, reduced international financing as banks are deleveraging, and the potential disruption to capital flows. In addition, it makes emerging countries more vulnerable to a slowdown in mature economies. Potential impact on HSBC • Trade and capital flows may contract as a result of lower world production, banks deleveraging, the introduction of protectionist measures in certain markets or the emergence of geopolitical risks, which in turn might curtail profitability. • A prolonged period of low interest rates due to policy actions taken to address the economic crisis in mature economies will constrain through spread compression and low returns on assets the interest income we earn from investing our excess deposits. • During 2012, we continued to reduce our sovereign and financial institution counterparty credit positions in peripheral eurozone countries. In addition, we actively sought to identify and reduce exposures to those counterparties domiciled in core European countries that had exposures to sovereigns and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their ongoing viability in the event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current situation. Macroeconomic risks within developed economies There is still some risk of one or more countries leaving the euro, although the situation improved in 2012. Even without a eurozone break-up, the currency will remain vulnerable to market perception. Banks in some countries remain very fragile and the rest of the European banking industry could be affected through its exposure to the weakest countries. Banks are therefore expected to continue to deleverage. In the current context of very low growth due to austerity measures, this could further aggravate the economic crisis and could push European countries into a vicious circle of economic crisis and sovereign difficulties. Although our exposure to the peripheral eurozone countries is relatively limited, we are exposed to counterparties in the core European countries which could be affected by any sovereign or currency crisis. Our eurozone exposures are described in more detail on page 192. Potential impact on HSBC • We could incur significant losses stemming from the exit of one or more countries from the eurozone and the redenomination of their currencies. • Our exposures to European banks may come under stress, heightening the potential for credit and market risk losses, if the sovereign debt and banking system crisis in the region increases the need to recapitalise parts of the sector. • In the event of contagion from stress in the peripheral eurozone sovereign and financial sectors, our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in funding transactions may be adversely affected by market dislocation and tightening liquidity. • A sovereign default without co-ordinated intervention to protect the rest of the eurozone could trigger banking defaults in companies with which we do business and have a knock-on effect on the global banking system. We have actively managed the risk of sovereign defaults during 2012 by reducing exposures and other measures. • In seeking to manage and mitigate these risks, we have prepared and tested detailed operational contingency plans to deal with such a scenario. However, such plans may not be adequate or may not prove effective. Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Weak global economic growth is exacerbating the risk of protectionism and some countries may impose restrictions on trade or on capital flows to protect their domestic economies. In Egypt, the political process remains in transition with a continuing risk of instability. In 131 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) addition, the fighting in Syria may disrupt global international relations, with tensions between Israel and Iran adding to the risks in the region. Potential impact on HSBC • Our results are subject to the risk of loss from unfavourable political developments, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies on matters such as expropriation, authorisations, international ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Actual conflict could bring about loss of life among our staff and physical damage to our assets. • We have increased our monitoring of the geopolitical and economic outlook, in particular in countries where we have material exposures and a physical presence. Our internal credit risk rating of sovereign counterparties takes these factors into account and drives our appetite for conducting business in those countries. Where necessary, we adjust our country limits and exposures to reflect our appetite and mitigate these risks as appropriate. Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model • Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability. • Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand. • Dispute risk. Financial service providers face increasingly stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory requirements, particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity management, conduct of business, operational structures and the integrity of financial services delivery. Increased government intervention and control over financial institutions, together with measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly alter the competitive landscape. These measures may be introduced as formal requirements in a supra-equivalent manner and to differing timetables across regulatory regimes. Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability Several regulatory changes are likely to affect our activities, both of the Group as a whole and of some or all of our principal subsidiaries. These changes include (i) the introduction of Basel III measures in the EU through CRD IV and uncertainty on both the timing and final form of implementation given that certain areas, such as, the operation of capital buffers have yet to be finalised and the technical guidance from the European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) across numerous areas has yet to be published, (ii) a new regulatory structure within the UK comprising the Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’), Prudential Regulatory Authority (‘PRA’) and Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) and, in particular, the effects of the ability of the FPC to seek additional capital for lending to sectors perceived as higher risk, (iii) the designation of the Group by the Financial Stability Board as a global systemically important bank; (iv) proposed legislation in the UK to give effect to the recommendations of the ICB in relation to ‘ring-fencing’ of the UK retail banking from wholesale banking activities, the structural separation of other activities envisaged in legislative proposals in the US (including the Volcker Rule proposed under the Dodd-Frank Act) and in France and, in the EU, considerations following the Liikanen Group recommendations; (v) changes in the regime for the operation of capital markets with increasing standardisation, central clearing, reporting and margin requirements; (vi) requirements flowing from arrangements for the recovery and resolution of the Group and its main operating entities; and (v) changing standards for the conduct of business. There is also continued risk of further changes to regulation relating to remuneration and other taxes. Potential impact on HSBC • Proposed changes relating to capital and liquidity requirements, remuneration and/or taxes could increase the Group’s cost of doing business, reducing future profitability. • Proposed changes in and the implementation of regulations for derivatives and central counterparties, the ICB ring-fencing proposals, recovery and resolution plans, the Volcker Rule and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (‘FATCA’) may affect the manner in which we conduct our activities and structure ourselves, with the potential both to increase the costs of doing business and curtail the types of business we can carry out, with the risk of decreased profitability as a result. Due to the fact that the development and implementation of many of 132 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) these various regulations are in their early stages, it is not possible to estimate the effect, if any, on our operations. We are closely engaged with the governments and regulators in the countries in which we operate to help ensure that the new requirements are properly considered and can be implemented in an effective manner. We are also ensuring that our capital and liquidity plans take into account the potential effects of the changes. Capital allocation and liquidity management disciplines have been expanded to incorporate future increased capital and liquidity requirements and drive appropriate risk management and mitigating actions. Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial service firms is increasing. In December 2012, HSBC reached agreement with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, the US Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions law. This includes a DPA with the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’). We also reached agreement to achieve a resolution with all other US government agencies that have investigated our past conduct related to these issues, and finalised an undertaking with the FSA to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to anti-money laundering and sanctions requirements over a five-year term. Under these agreements, we made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities and undertook to continue cooperating fully with US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action to strengthen our compliance policies and procedures. Over the five-year term of the agreement with the DoJ and the FSA, an independent monitor (who will, for FSA purposes, be a ‘skilled person’ under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA)) will evaluate and assess our progress in fully implementing these and other measures it recommends and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of our Compliance function. As reflected in the agreement entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (‘OCC’) in December 2012 (the ‘GLBA Agreement’), the OCC has determined that HSBC Bank USA is not in compliance with the requirements which provide that a national bank and each depository institution affiliate of the national bank must be both well capitalised and well managed in order to own or control a financial subsidiary. As a result, HSBC Bank USA and its parent holding companies, including HSBC, no longer meet the qualification requirements for financial holding company status, and may not engage in any new types of financial activities without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. In the UK, the FSA has continued to increase its focus on ‘conduct risk’ including attention to sales processes and incentives, product and investment suitability and conduct of business concerns more generally. These measures are concerned principally, but not exclusively, with the conduct of business with retail customers and in conjunction with this focus, the UK regulators are making increasing use of existing and new powers of intervention and enforcement, including powers to consider past business undertaken and implement customer compensation and redress schemes or other, potentially significant remedial work. Additionally, the UK and other regulators increasingly take actions in response to customer complaints either specific to an institution or more generally in relation to a particular product. We have seen recent examples of this approach in the context of the mis-selling of payment protection insurance and of interest rate derivative products to SMEs. The Group also continues to be subject to a number of other regulatory proceedings, including investigations and reviews by various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, Canada, the EU, Switzerland and Asia, who are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the process for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. As certain HSBC entities are members of such panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory demands for information and are cooperating with those investigations and reviews. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in private lawsuits 133 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) filed in the US with respect to the setting of Libor, including putative class action lawsuits which have been consolidated before the US District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints in those actions assert claims against HSBC and other panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange Act, and state law. Potential impact on HSBC • It is difficult to predict the outcome of the regulatory proceedings involving our businesses. Unfavourable outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, brand and results, including loss of business and withdrawal of funding. • In relation to the DPA, the Group has committed to take or continue to adhere to a number of remedial measures. Breach of the DPA at any time during its term may allow the DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office to prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPA. • In relation to the GLBA Agreement, if all of our affiliate depositary institutions are not in compliance with these requirements within the time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, HSBC could be required either to divest HSBC Bank USA or to divest or terminate any financial activities conducted in reliance on the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (‘GLB Act’). Similar consequences could result for subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial activities in reliance on expanded powers provided for in the GLB Act. Any such divestiture or termination of activities would have an adverse material effect on the consolidated results and operation of HSBC. • The UK and other regulators may identify future industry-wide mis-selling or other issues that could affect the Group. This may lead from time to time to: (i) significant direct costs or liabilities (including in relation to mis-selling); and (ii) changes in the practices of such businesses which benefit customers at a cost to shareholders. Further, decisions taken in the UK by the Financial Ombudsman Service in relation to customer complaints (or any overseas equivalent that has jurisdiction) could, if applied to a wider class or grouping of customers, have a material adverse effect on the operating results, financial condition and prospects of the Group. Steps to address many of the requirements of the DPA and the GLBA Agreement have either already been taken or are under way. These include simplifying the Group’s control structure, strengthening the governance structure with new leadership appointments, revising key policies and establishing bodies to implement single global standards shaped by the highest or most effective standards available in any location where the Group operates, as well as substantially increasing spending and staffing in the anti-money laundering and regulatory compliance areas in the past few years. There can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or that HSBC will not have to take additional remedial measures in the future to comply with the terms of the DPA or the GLBA Agreement. Dispute risk The current economic environment has increased the Group’s exposure to actual and potential litigation. Further details are provided in Note 43 on the Financial Statements. Potential impact on HSBC Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss and significant reputational damage which could adversely affect customer and investor confidence. Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems • Regulatory commitments and consent orders including under the Deferred Prosecution Agreements. • Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn. • Internet crime and fraud. • Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk. • Information security risk. • Model risk. Regulatory commitments and consent orders including under the Deferred Prosecution Agreements There is a risk that we fail to meet our deadlines or we are judged to have material gaps in our plans or implementation compared with the requirements of the DPAs and other orders. Further details of this risk are provided on page 128. 134 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Potential impact on HSBC If, during the term of the DPA, HSBC is determined to have breached the DPA, the DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office may prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPA. The FSA may, in similar vein, take enforcement action against the Group as a result of a breach of the DPA or of our related undertakings to the FSA. Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn The external environment remains challenging and the structural changes which the financial sector is going through are creating obstacles to the achievement of strategic objectives. This, combined with the prolonged global economic slowdown, could affect the achievement of our strategic targets for the Group as a whole and our global businesses. Potential impact on HSBC • The slowdown may put pressure on our ability to earn returns on equity in excess of our cost of equity while operating within the overall parameters of our risk appetite. • Through our strategic initiatives, which have heightened the focus on capital allocation and cost efficiency, we are actively seeking to manage and mitigate this risk. Internet crime and fraud With the ever-growing acceptance of and demand for internet and mobile services by customers, HSBC is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal activities via these channels. Internet crime could result in financial loss and/or customer data and sensitive information being compromised. Along with internet fraud, the overall threat of external fraud may increase during adverse economic conditions, particularly in retail and commercial banking. We also face the risk of breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems failure or unavailability, and our business is subject to disruption from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts of terrorism. Potential impact on HSBC • Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses in service to customers and/or economic loss to HSBC. The same threats apply equally when we rely on external suppliers or vendors to provide services to us and our customers. • We have increased our defences through enhanced monitoring and have implemented additional controls, such as two-factor authentication, to reduce the possibility of losses from fraud. We continually assess these threats as they evolve and adapt our controls to mitigate them. Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk There are many drivers of change affecting HSBC and the banking industry, including new banking regulations, the increased globalisation of economic and business activities, new products and delivery channels and organisational change. Operational complexity has the potential to heighten all types of operational risk arising from our activities. These risks include process errors, systems failures and fraud. Complexity can also increase operational costs. The implementation of our strategy to simplify our business, which involves withdrawing from certain markets, presents disposal risks which must be carefully managed. Implementing organisational changes to support the Group’s strategy also requires close management oversight. Potential impact on HSBC • The implementation of our strategy has involved the re-organisation and clarification of management accountabilities. There is consequently a risk that issues are missed during the transition. This change activity is being monitored through a comprehensive review programme and robust governance arrangements. • Critical systems failure and a prolonged loss of service availability could cause serious damage to our ability to serve our customers, breach regulations under which we operate and cause long-term damage to our business, reputation and brand. Systems and controls could be degraded as a result of organisational effectiveness initiatives unless there is strong governance and an oversight framework to monitor the risk and control environment. We seek to ensure that our critical systems infrastructure, including IT services, essential buildings, offshore processes and key vendors, is constantly monitored and properly resourced to mitigate against systems failures. 135 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • We pro-actively review relevant external events and assess the impact they may have on our systems. Within HSBC, we have a strong focus on industry best practices. We rigorously test and review all planned updates to our systems environment. All changes are risk-assessed, and appropriate mitigating controls are required for any planned changes classified as high risk. During periods of heightened risk, comprehensive change embargoes are imposed to minimise the risk of customers being affected. Following the systems outage at a major UK bank in 2012, we assessed our own exposure to similar risks and implemented appropriate steps in mitigation. We also assessed the systems scheduling tools used in the Group. There are controls in place to manage inter-dependencies, report exceptions and alert file data corruption. These additional controls are intended to ensure that the effect of any similar product failure at HSBC would be limited. In addition, a continuity test of a similar problem within our major datacentres in the UK and Hong Kong was conducted in the second half of 2012. • The potential effects of disposal risks include regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of key personnel and interruption to systems and processes during business transformation, and they can have both financial and reputational implications. Steps taken to manage these risks proactively include maintaining a close dialogue with regulators and customers and involving HR, legal, compliance and other functional experts. Some disposals also involve Transitional Service Agreements where there are ongoing risks, which are subject to close management oversight. Information security risk The security of our information and technology infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking applications and processes while protecting our customers and the HSBC brand. Potential impact on HSBC • These risks give rise to potential financial loss and reputational damage which could adversely affect customer and investor confidence. Loss of customer data would also trigger regulatory breaches which could result in fines and penalties being incurred. • We have invested significantly in addressing this risk through increased training to raise staff awareness of the requirements and enhanced multi-layered controls protecting our information and technical infrastructure. Model risk More stringent regulatory requirements governing the development of parameters applied to and controls around models used for measuring risk can give rise to changes, including increases in capital requirements. Furthermore, the changing external economic and legislative environment and changes in customer behaviour can lead to the assumptions we have made in our models becoming invalid. Potential impact on HSBC • These model risks can result in a potentially increased and volatile capital requirement. • We continue to address these risks through enhanced model development, independent review and model oversight to ensure our models remain fit for purpose. 136 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Credit risk Page App 1 Tables Page Credit risk management 252 Summary of credit risk in 2012 139 Maximum exposure to credit risk 139 Loans and advances excluding held for sale: total exposure, impairment allowances and charges 139 Personal lending 140 Wholesale lending 141 Credit quality of gross loans and advances 142 Impairment of loans and advances 143 LICs by geographical region 143 LICs by industry 143 Assets held for sale 143 Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost 143 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 144 Credit exposure 144 Maximum exposure to credit risk 144 Maximum exposure to credit risk 146 Loans and other credit-related commitments 146 Personal lending 147 Total personal lending 147 Mortgage lending 148 Mortgage lending products 149 Mortgage lending in the US 150 HSBC Finance US CML – residential mortgages 150 Credit quality of personal lending in the US 151 HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US 151 Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US 152 Wholesale lending 152 Total wholesale lending 153 Corporate and commercial 154 Financial (non-bank) 154 Loans and advances to banks 154 Credit quality of financial instruments 154 253 Credit quality classification 253 2012 compared with 2011 154 Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 155 Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 156 Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by geographical region 157 Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 157 Renegotiated loans and forbearance 158 254 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers 158 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region 158 2012 compared with 2011 159 HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing 159 Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances 161 Movement in HSBC Finance renegotiated real estate balances 161 Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio 161 Corporate and commercial forbearance 161 Impaired loans 162 Movement in impaired loans by geographical region 163 Collateral 163 Collateral and other credit enhancements held 163 Residential mortgage loans 164 Commercial real estate loans and advances by collateral 165 Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances by collateral 166 Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by collateral 167 Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained 168 Carrying amount 168 Impairment of loans and advances 168 258 Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers by geographical region 169 Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region 170 2012 compared with 2011 170 2011 compared with 2010 171 a Further analysis of impairment 172 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector 174 Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks 175 137 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Page App 1 Tables Page Impairment of loans and advances Further analysis of impairment (continued) Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector 175 Net loan impairment charge to the income statement 176 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region 176 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers 177 Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes by geographical region 177 Impairment assessment 258 Concentration of exposure 178 259 Trading assets 178 Gross loans and advances by industry sector 179 Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region 181 Loans and advances to banks by geographical region 182 Gross loans and advances to customers by country 182 Country distribution of outstandings and cross-border exposures 183a In-country foreign currency and cross-border amounts outstanding 183a HSBC Holdings 184 HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk 184 Securitisation exposures and other structured products 184 259 Business model 185 Exposure in 2012 185 Overall exposure of HSBC 185 Movement in the available-for-sale reserve 186 Securities investment conduits 186 Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire 186 Impairment methodologies 186 260 Analysis of exposures and significant movements 186 Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss 187 Transactions with monoline insurers 189 HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers 189 Leveraged finance transactions 190 HSBC’s exposure to leveraged finance transactions 190 Representations and warranties related to mortgage sales and securitisation activities 191 Trend in repurchase demands received by loans sold to GSEs and other third parties by origination vintage 191 a Outstanding repurchase demands received from GSEs and other third parties 191 a Movement in repurchase liability for loans sold to GSEs and other third parties 191 a Risk elements in the loan portfolio 191 a Interest foregone on impaired loans and restructured loans 191 b Impaired loans 191 b Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more 191 b Troubled debt restructurings 191 b Potential problem loans 191 c Analysis of risk elements in the loan portfolio by geographical region 191 d 1 Appendix to Risk — risk policies and practices. 138 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract. It arises principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from certain other products such as guarantees and credit derivatives and from holding assets in the form of debt securities. There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of credit risk in 2012. A summary of our current policies and practices regarding credit risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 252. Summary of credit risk in 2012 (Unaudited) Maximum exposure to credit risk At 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Trading assets 367,177 309,449 Financial assets designated at fair value 12,714 12,926 Derivatives 357,450 346,379 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 1,150,169 1,121,416 – to banks 152,546 180,987 – to customers 997,623 940,429 Financial investments 415,312 392,834 Assets held for sale 9,292 37,808 Other assets 203,561 192,024 Off-balance sheet exposures 624,462 694,228 – financial guarantees and similar contracts 44,993 39,324 – loan and other credit-related commitments 579,469 654,904 3,140,137 3,107,064 In 2012, net loans and advances to customers continued to represent our most significant exposure to credit risk, making up 32% of total credit exposure compared with 30% in 2011. Other significant components of our credit exposures were financial investments at 13%, unchanged from 2011, trading assets at 12% (2011: 10%) and derivatives at 11% (unchanged from 2011). Loans and advances to banks fell as a proportion of the Group’s credit exposure from 6% in 2011 to 5% in 2012. Off-balance sheet assets contributed 20% of our total credit exposure, mainly relating to loan and other credit-related commitments (2011: 22%). Of our net loans and advances to customers, corporate and commercial lending made up the largest proportion at 51% (2011: 49%), with significant exposures in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. First lien residential mortgages represented 30% of total gross loans and advances, mainly in the UK, the US and Hong Kong. Other personal lending (including second lien residential mortgages) made up the bulk of the remaining exposure. Loans and advances excluding held for sale: total exposure, impairment allowances and charges (Unaudited) 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn At 31 December Total gross loans and advances (A) 1,166.3 1,139.1 Impairment allowances 16.2 17.6 – as a percentage of A 1.39% 1.55% Loans and advances net of impairment allowances 1,150.2 1,121.5 Year ended 31 December Impairment charges 8.2 11.5 The increase in corporate and commercial lending stemmed mainly from Europe, due to a rise in overdrafts which did not meet accounting criteria for netting against corresponding current account balances. Increases in North America reflected CMB’s focus on target segments in the US, partly offset by the continued decline in balances in the run-off CML portfolio. In addition, during the year we reclassified US$3.7bn of non-real estate personal loan balances in the CML portfolio and US$2.2bn of lending balances associated with certain operations in Latin America, net of impairment allowances, to ‘Assets held for sale’. The disposal of the Card and Retail Services business in the US during the year did not contribute to the decline as the related balances had been transferred to ‘Assets held for sale’ during 2011. The increase in first lien residential mortgages reflected the success of marketing campaigns and competitive pricing in the UK, the continued strength of the property market in Hong Kong and distribution network expansion in Rest of Asia-Pacific. Within net loans and advances, loan impairment allowances fell by US$1.4bn, driven by run-off in the CML portfolio and the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. Trading assets include debt securities (principally government and government-related securities), reverse repo and stock borrowing balances. Balances recovered in 2012 from the subdued levels seen at the end of 2011, when client activity declined due to the eurozone debt concerns dominating the global economy. Loans and advances to banks fell, driven by a reduction in reverse repo balances, in part reflecting the redeployment of liquidity in Europe to central 139 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) banks, together with maturities and repayments in Hong Kong. Loan and other credit-related commitments declined from US$655bn to US$579bn. The reduction in exposure in 2012 was largely driven by the sale of Card and Retail Services in the US. For a more detailed analysis of our maximum exposure to credit risk, see page 144. Personal lending (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 First lien residential mortgages Gross amount (B) 135,172 52,296 36,906 2,144 70,133 5,211 301,862 Impairment allowances 489 4 66 136 4,163 47 4,905 – as a percentage of B 0.4% 0.0% 0.2% 6.3% 5.9% 0.9% 1.6% Other personal lending1 Gross amount (C) 51,102 18,045 12,399 4,088 14,221 13,376 113,231 Impairment allowances 977 57 143 189 684 1,257 3,307 – as a percentage of C 1.9% 0.3% 1.2% 4.6% 4.8% 9.4% 2.9% Total personal lending Gross amount (D) 186,274 70,341 49,305 6,232 84,354 18,587 415,093 Impairment allowances 1,466 61 209 325 4,847 1,304 8,212 – as a percentage of D 0.8% 0.1% 0.4% 5.2% 5.7% 7.0% 2.0% 2011 First lien residential mortgages Gross amount (E) 119,902 46,817 32,136 1,837 73,278 4,993 278,963 Impairment allowances 441 12 58 126 4,578 106 5,321 – as a percentage of E 0.4% 0.0% 0.2% 6.9% 6.2% 2.1% 1.9% Other personal lending1 Gross amount (F) 46,245 16,364 11,445 3,432 22,058 15,118 114,662 Impairment allowances 1,111 52 138 198 1,768 1,172 4,439 – as a percentage of F 2.4% 0.3% 1.2% 5.8% 8.0% 7.8% 3.9% Total personal lending Gross amount (G) 166,147 63,181 43,581 5,269 95,336 20,111 393,625 Impairment allowances 1552 64 196 324 6,346 1,278 9,760 – as a percentage of G 0.9% 0.1% 0.4% 6.1% 6.7% 6.4% 2.5% For footnote, see page 249. Our personal lending balances increased from US$394bn at 31 December 2011 to US$415bn at 31 December 2012, compared with the end of 2011. This was primarily due to growth in residential mortgages in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. In Europe, this was due to successful marketing campaigns and competitive pricing in the UK. The growth in mortgage balances in Hong Kong was driven by the low interest rate environment, and robust residential property market. The latter was also a factor in Rest of Asia-Pacific, most notably in Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia. This growth in total personal lending balances was partly offset by a decline in North America, in part due to the run-off of the CML portfolio and the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. In Latin America personal lending decreased, mainly reflecting the transfer of balances relating to the operations in Colombia, Peru and Paraguay to ‘Assets held for sale’ in the second quarter of 2012, as well as lower balances in Brazil, where we continued to manage down our exposure to non-strategic portfolios. Impairment allowances declined by 16%, primarily in North America in the CML portfolio, reflecting the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ and the continued run-off. In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, impairment allowances remained at low levels throughout 2012. In Europe, in other personal lending, impairment allowances as a percentage of lending balances, declined from 2.4% to 1.9% as we focused our lending growth on higher quality assets. For a more detailed analysis of our personal lending, see page 147. 140 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Wholesale lending (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Corporate and commercial Gross amount (H) 226,755 99,199 85,305 22,452 48,083 35,590 517,384 Impairment allowances 3,537 383 526 1,312 732 856 7,346 – as a percentage of H 1.56% 0.39% 0.62% 5.84% 1.52% 2.41% 1.42% Financial2 Gross amount (I) 101,052 28,046 48,847 10,394 27,400 18,122 233,861 Impairment allowances 358 29 11 174 37 2 611 – as a percentage of I 0.35% 0.10% 0.02% 1.67% 0.14% 0.01% 0.26% 2011 Corporate and commercial Gross amount (J) 209,760 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,775 35,930 478,096 Impairment allowances 3,256 492 576 1,242 756 729 7,051 – as a percentage of J 1.55% 0.54% 0.74% 5.87% 1.81% 2.03% 1.47% Financial2 Gross amount (K) 118,077 38,632 50,492 9,739 27,648 22,743 267,331 Impairment allowances 484 26 11 166 135 3 825 – as a percentage of K 0.41% 0.07% 0.02% 1.70% 0.49% 0.01% 0.31% For footnote, see page 249. At 31 December 2012, our corporate and commercial lending balances were US$517bn. The increase of 8% compared with the end of 2011 was mainly in the international trade and services sector, largely in Europe despite muted demand for credit, and in Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows. In the manufacturing sector in Europe, balances increased due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances and corresponding customer accounts which did not, however, meet netting criteria under accounting rules. Financial sector lending decreased from US$267bn at 31 December 2011 to US$234bn at 31 December 2012. This was mainly in Europe due to a fall in reverse repo activity as liquidity was redeployed to central banks, together with maturities and repayments in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Impairment allowances remained at low levels as a percentage of wholesale lending balances. In North America, impairment allowances as a percentage of financial lending balances declined from 0.49% to 0.14% reflecting a few large write-offs in 2012. Lending balances in this category remained broadly unchanged. In Europe, impairment allowances declined from US$484m to US$358m reflecting the disposal of a small number of exposures. For a more detailed analysis of our wholesale lending, see page 152. 141 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Credit quality of gross loans and advances (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Neither past due nor impaired 500,599 200,110 179,337 35,628 127,457 65,520 1,108,651 Of which renegotiated 3,871 275 199 1,300 6,061 1,109 12,815 Past due but not impaired 2,339 1,311 2,974 975 7,721 3,591 18,911 Of which renegotiated 371 8 35 168 3104 133 3,819 Impaired 11,145 477 1,147 2,474 20,345 3,188 38,776 Of which renegotiated 5,732 109 318 921 16,997 1516 25,593 2011 Neither past due nor impaired 480,173 191,691 168,571 32,550 131,785 72,534 1,077,304 Of which renegotiated 5,136 309 264 1,532 6,570 909 14,720 Past due but not impaired 1,990 1,107 2,319 1,165 10,216 3,212 20,009 Of which renegotiated 282 4 47 311 4,061 168 4,873 Impaired 11,819 608 1,070 2,445 22,758 3,039 41,739 Of which renegotiated 6,046 134 137 812 17,844 1,399 26,372 At 31 December 2012, US$1,109bn of gross loans and advances were classified as neither past due nor impaired. This was an increase of 3%, mainly in Europe and in Rest of Asia-Pacific. At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of gross loans and advances were classified as past due but not impaired compared with US$20bn at the end of 2011. The largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC Finance. The decline of 5% was mainly in North America due to the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’, as well as the continued run-off of the mortgage balances in the CML portfolio. This was partly offset by an increase in Rest of Asia-Pacific in the personal and corporate and commercial sectors. Gross loans and advances classified as impaired decreased by 7%, mainly in North America due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio, as well as the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ in our CML portfolio. Renegotiated loans totalled US$42bn at 31 December 2012, compared with US$46bn at the end of 2011. North America accounted for the largest volume of renegotiated loans which amounted to US$26bn or 62% of total renegotiated loans at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$28bn or 62%), most of which were first lien residential mortgages held by HSBC Finance. Of the total renegotiated loans in North America, US$17bn were presented as impaired at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$18bn). Of total renegotiated loans, US$3.8bn were presented as past due but not impaired at 31 December 2012, down from US$4.9bn at 31 December 2011. This was mainly in North America in the CML portfolio due to the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ as well as the continued run-off of the lending balances. For a more detailed analysis of the credit quality of financial instruments, see page 154. 142 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Impairment of loans and advances (Unaudited) Loan impairment charges by geographical region Loan impairment charges by industry Loan impairment charges decreased from US$12bn to US$8.2bn on a reported basis, a decline of 29% compared with 2011. On a constant currency basis, they were 27% lower. The improvement in loan impairment charges was most significant in RBWM in North America due to the continued decline in the CML portfolio that is in run-off and the sale of the Card and Retail Services business. This was in part reduced by higher loan impairment charges in Latin America. In Brazil, delinquencies in RBWM and CMB increased, reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges increased as a result of individually assessed impairments on a single corporate exposure in Australia and a small number of corporate exposures in other countries. For a more detailed analysis of the impairment of loans and advances, see page 168. Assets held for sale During 2012, the growth in gross loans and advances was affected by a reclassification of certain lending balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. Disclosures relating to assets held for sale are provided in the following credit risk management tables, primarily where the disclosure is relevant to the measurement of these financial assets: • Maximum exposure to credit risk (page 146); • Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (page 155); and • Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments (page 157). Although gross loans and advances and related impairment allowances are reclassified from ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and ‘Loans and advances to banks’ in the balance sheet, there is no equivalent income statement reclassification. As a result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment charges relating to financial assets classified as ‘Assets held for sale’. Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Grossloans andadvancesUS$m Impairment allowances on loans and advancesUS$m Grossloans andadvancesUS$m Impairment allowances on loans and advancesUS$m Reported in ‘Loans and advances to customers and banks’ 1,166,338 16,169 1,139,052 17,636 Reported in ‘Assets held for sale’ 7,350 718 37,273 1,614 1,173,688 16,887 1,176,325 19,250 143 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The lending balances in ‘Assets held for sale’ at the end of 2012 included non-real estate personal loan balances from our CML portfolio in North America and balances associated with the disposal of our operations in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru, net of impairment allowances. The lending balances and impairment allowances reported in ‘Assets held for sale’ at the end of 2011 included the US Card and Retail Services portfolio which was disposed of in 2012. As the latter was reclassified in 2011, the disposal had no impact on the year on year movement in loans and advances or impairment allowances in 2012. Lending balances held for sale continue to be measured at amortised cost less allowances for impairment; such carrying amounts may differ from fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount and the sales price, which is the fair value at the time of sale, would be recognised as a gain or loss. See Note 16 on the Financial Statements for the carrying amount and the fair value at 31 December 2012 of loans and advances to banks and customers classified as held for sale. The table below analyses the amount of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) arising from assets held for sale. They primarily related to the non-real estate personal loans reclassified to held-for-sale in the CML portfolio, as well as to the US Card and Retail Services business classified as such at 31 December 2011 which was sold in 2012. Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (Unaudited) 2012US$m LICs arising from: – disposals and assets held for sale 766 – assets not held for sale 7,545 8,311 Credit exposure Maximum exposure to credit risk (Audited) In 2012, our exposure to credit risk remained well diversified across asset classes. We increased our overall exposure to credit risk in 2012, largely from increases in trading assets in Europe and North America, driven by higher client trading activity. Loans and advances to customers also rose, mainly in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table (page 146) The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (unless such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements). For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount; for financial guarantees and similar contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan commitments and other credit-related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is generally the full amount of the committed facilities. Loans and advances Our maximum exposure to loans and advances carried at amortised cost increased by 3% compared with the end of 2011. The rise primarily reflected growth in residential mortgage balances in the UK following the continued focus on sales and competitive pricing, the ongoing strength of the property market in Hong Kong and in Rest of Asia-Pacific, coupled with expansion of our distribution network in the latter. Term and trade-related lending rose in Europe despite muted demand for credit in the UK and in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, reflecting our focus on corporate and commercial customers that trade internationally. Lending also rose in Europe as overdraft balances that did not meet netting criteria increased in the UK, with a corresponding rise in related customer accounts. In North America corporate and commercial lending increased, reflecting our focus on target segments in the US. These increases were partly offset by a decline in North America from repayments and write-offs on the run-off CML portfolio. In addition, during the year we reclassified US$3.7bn of non real estate personal loan balances in the CML portfolio and US$2.2bn of lending balances associated with certain operations in Latin America, net of impairment allowances, to ‘Assets held for sale’. Reverse repo balances also declined, mainly in Europe. Our exposure to loans and advances to banks decreased in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific due to maturities and repayments, and in Europe as reverse repo balances declined due, in part, to the redeployment of liquidity to central banks. Balances also decreased in Latin America. The loans and advances offset adjustment in the table on page 146 primarily relates to customer loans and deposits and balances arising from repo and reverse repo transactions where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk management purposes. 144 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes. Financial investments Maximum exposure to financial investments increased by 6% compared with the end of 2011. This largely reflected the deployment of surplus liquidity into available-for-sale investments, notably treasury bills in Hong Kong and highly rated debt securities in North America. Trading assets In 2012, our exposure to trading assets rose by 19% reflecting increased client activity compared with the subdued levels seen in 2011. This resulted in higher reverse repo balances in Europe and North America, and higher securities borrowing balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Europe, which vary in line with levels of trading activity. Cash and balances at central banks The Group’s maximum exposure to cash and balances at central banks increased by 9%, driven by redeployment of excess liquidity in Europe and Hong Kong to central banks. This reflected the Group’s risk appetite coupled with growth in customer deposit balances. In North America, we reduced balances at the US Federal Reserve as surplus liquidity was redeployed into highly-rated financial investments. Derivatives Our maximum exposure to derivatives increased slightly, primarily reflecting a rise in the fair value of interest rate derivative contracts in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in the US due to downward movements in yield curves in major currencies. This was partly offset by a decrease in the fair value of credit derivative contracts, primarily in Europe and the US, as credit spreads tightened. Nearly half of all trades are exchange traded or otherwise settled centrally, the majority of these being interest rate derivatives. The derivative offset amount in the table on page 146 relates to exposures where the counterparty has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a master netting arrangement is in place and the credit risk exposure is managed on a net basis, or the position is specifically collateralised, normally in the form of cash. At 31 December 2012, the total amount of such offsets was US$311bn (2011: US$306bn), of which US$270bn (2011: US$272bn) were offsets under a master netting arrangement, US$39bn (2011: US$33bn) was collateral received in cash and US$1.8bn (2011: US$0.7bn) was other collateral. These amounts do not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes as settlement is not intended to be made on a net basis. Other credit risk mitigants While not disclosed as offset in the maximum exposure to credit risk table on page 146, other arrangements including short positions in securities and financial assets held as part of linked insurance/ investment contracts where the risk is predominately borne by the policyholder, reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk. In addition, we hold collateral in respect of individual loans and advances (see page 163). Loans and other credit-related commitments Loans and other credit-related commitments remain well diversified across geographical regions. For more details, see page 146. Counterparty analysis of notional contract amounts of derivatives by product type (Unaudited) Traded over the counter Traded on recognised exchanges Settled by central counterparties Not settled by central counterparties Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 HSBC Foreign exchange 27,869 11,156 4,413,532 4,452,557 Interest rate 837,604 12,316,673 8,459,665 21,613,942 Equity 225,452 – 270,216 495,668 Credit – 73,281 828,226 901,507 Commodity and other 19,006 – 61,213 80,219 1,109,931 12,401,110 14,032,852 27,543,893 The purpose for which HSBC uses derivatives is set out in Note 19 on the Financial Statements. 145 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Maximum exposure to credit risk (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 MaximumexposureUS$m OffsetUS$m NetUS$m MaximumexposureUS$m OffsetUS$m NetUS$m Cash and balances at central banks 141,532 – 141,532 129,902 – 129,902 Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,303 – 7,303 8,208 – 8,208 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 22,743 – 22,743 20,922 – 20,922 Trading assets 367,177 (19,700 ) 347,477 309,449 (4,656 ) 304,793 Treasury and other eligible bills 26,282 – 26,282 34,309 – 34,309 Debt securities 144,677 – 144,677 130,487 – 130,487 Loans and advances to banks 78,271 – 78,271 75,525 – 75,525 Loans and advances to customers 117,947 (19,700 ) 98,247 69,128 (4,656 ) 64,472 Financial assets designated at fair value 12,714 – 12,714 12,926 – 12,926 Treasury and other eligible bills 54 – 54 123 – 123 Debt securities 12,551 – 12,551 11,834 – 11,834 Loans and advances to banks 55 – 55 119 – 119 Loans and advances to customers 54 – 54 850 – 850 Derivatives 357,450 (310,859 ) 46,591 346,379 (305,616 ) 40,763 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 1,150,169 (95,578 ) 1,054,591 1,121,416 (87,978 ) 1,033,438 – to banks 152,546 (3,732 ) 148,814 180,987 (3,066 ) 177,921 – to customers 997,623 (91,846 ) 905,777 940,429 (84,912 ) 855,517 Financial investments 415,312 – 415,312 392,834 – 392,834 Treasury and other similar bills 87,550 – 87,550 65,223 – 65,223 Debt securities 327,762 – 327,762 327,611 – 327,611 Assets held for sale 9,292 (164 ) 9,128 37,808 (204 ) 37,604 – disposal groups 5,359 (164 ) 5,195 37,746 (204 ) 37,542 – non-current assets held for sale 3,933 – 3,933 62 – 62 Other assets 31,983 – 31,983 32,992 – 32,992 Endorsements and acceptances 12,032 – 12,032 11,010 – 11,010 Other 19,951 – 19,951 21,982 – 21,982 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 44,993 – 44,993 39,324 – 39,324 Loan and other credit-related commitments3 579,469 – 579,469 654,904 – 654,904 3,140,137 (426,301 ) 2,713,836 3,107,064 (398,454 ) 2,708,610 For footnote, see page 249. Loan and other credit-related commitments (Unaudited) Asia US$m EuropeUS$m AmericasUS$m Total US$m At 31 December 2012 Personal 79,021 80,596 31,566 191,183 Corporate and commercial 139,897 91,957 110,401 342,255 Financial 10,330 15,080 20,621 46,031 229,248 187,633 162,588 579,469 At 31 December 2011 Personal 76,901 76,658 139,458 293,017 Corporate and commercial 122,618 84,797 101,861 309,276 Financial 8,646 21,060 22,905 52,611 208,165 182,515 264,224 654,904 A description of loan and other credit related commitments is set out in Note 40 on the Financial Statements. The reduction in the total amount from 2011 to 2012 is mainly due to the disposal of the US Cards business and US branch network in 2012. In the table above, Asia includes amounts in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and North Africa. 146 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Personal lending (Unaudited) We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured personal lending products to meet customer needs. Given the diverse nature of the markets in which we operate, the range is not standard across all countries but is tailored to meet the demands of individual markets. Personal lending includes advances to customers for asset purchases, such as residential property, where the loans are typically secured by the assets being acquired. We also offer loans secured on existing assets, such as first and second liens on residential property; unsecured lending products such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans; and debt consolidation loans which may be secured or unsecured. Total personal lending (Unaudited) UKUS$m Rest ofEuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m US4US$m Rest ofNorthAmericaUS$m Other regions5US$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 First lien residential mortgages 127,024 8,148 52,296 49,417 20,716 44,261 301,862 Other personal lending 23,446 27,656 18,045 7,382 6,839 29,863 113,231 – motor vehicle finance – 24 – – 20 3,871 3,915 – credit cards 11,369 3,060 5,930 821 735 8,881 30,796 – second lien residential mortgages 508 – – 5,959 363 131 6,961 – other 11,569 24,572 12,115 602 5,721 16,980 71,559 Total personal lending (A) 150,470 35,804 70,341 56,799 27,555 74,124 415,093 Impairment allowances on personal lending First lien residential mortgages (425 ) (64 ) (4 ) (4,133 ) (30 ) (249 ) (4,905 ) Other personal lending (576 ) (401 ) (57 ) (590 ) (94 ) (1,589 ) (3,307 ) – motor vehicle finance – (4 ) – – (1 ) (144 ) (149 ) – credit cards (150 ) (184 ) (28 ) (40 ) (14 ) (385 ) (801 ) – second lien residential mortgages (44 ) – – (542 ) (6 ) – (592 ) – other (382 ) (213 ) (29 ) (8 ) (73 ) (1,060 ) (1,765 ) Total (1,001 ) (465 ) (61 ) (4,723 ) (124 ) (1,838 ) (8,212 ) – as a percentage of A 0.7% 1.3% 0.1% 8.3% 0.5% 2.5% 2.0% At 31 December 2011 First lien residential mortgages 111,224 8,678 46,817 52,484 20,794 38,966 278,963 Other personal lending 22,218 24,027 16,364 14,087 7,971 29,995 114,662 – motor vehicle finance – 24 – 20 29 4,494 4,567 – credit cards 11,279 2,192 5,304 833 1,262 8,618 29,488 – second lien residential mortgages 694 – – 7,063 468 233 8,458 – other 10,245 21,811 11,060 6,171 6,212 16,650 72,149 Total personal lending (B) 133,442 32,705 63,181 66,571 28,765 68,961 393,625 Impairment allowances on personal lending First lien residential mortgages (383 ) (58 ) (12 ) (4,551 ) (27 ) (290 ) (5,321 ) Other personal lending (745 ) (366 ) (52 ) (1,659 ) (109 ) (1,508 ) (4,439 ) – motor vehicle finance – (4 ) – – – (164 ) (168 ) – credit cards (177 ) (148 ) (22 ) (46 ) (35 ) (406 ) (834 ) – second lien residential mortgages (42 ) (1 ) – (740 ) (9 ) – (792 ) – other (526 ) (213 ) (30 ) (873 ) (65 ) (938 ) (2645 ) Total (1,128 ) (424 ) (64 ) (6,210 ) (136 ) (1,798 ) (9,760 ) – as a percentage of B 0.8% 1.3% 0.1% 9.3% 0.5% 2.6% 2.5% For footnotes, see page 249. 147 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) In 2012, the credit quality of the majority of our personal lending portfolios improved, reflecting the continued low levels of interest rates and strong customer repayments in many markets, as well as actions taken in previous years to tighten our lending criteria and focus on higher quality and secured assets. In the US, the origination of new personal lending was limited as we have discontinued all new consumer finance real estate lending following the closure of the consumer finance distribution network. Customer lending balances across HSBC Finance portfolios continued to decline and, in May and August 2012 respectively, we completed the sales of the Card and Retail Services business and non-strategic branches, in the US. We continue to explore options to accelerate the liquidation of the CML portfolio and, to this effect, reclassified certain non-real estate personal loan balances, net of impairment allowances, to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively marketed this portfolio. The commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis. At 31 December 2012, the Group’s exposure to personal lending was US$415bn, 3% higher than at 31 December 2011, reflecting a rise in first lien residential mortgage lending, partly offset by a reduction in other personal lending. Loan impairment allowances on our personal lending portfolios were US$8.2bn compared with US$9.8bn at the end of 2011, while the ratio of loan impairment allowances to total personal lending reduced from 2.4% at 31 December 2011 to 2.0% at 31 December 2012. This decline reflected volume and performance-based improvements, predominantly in our US portfolios, due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio as well as the reclassification of impairment allowances on non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. We also continued to focus on growing our lower-risk residential mortgage portfolios in the UK, Hong Kong and rest of Asia-Pacific, where our loss experience and impairment allowance requirements are typically lower. Loan impairment charges in our personal lending portfolios were US$5.4bn in 2012, US$3.8bn or 41% lower than in 2011 and representing 66% of the overall Group’s LICs. The decline was predominantly in the US reflecting the reduction in balances in the CML portfolio and the sale of the Card and Retail Services business in May 2012. At 31 December 2012, total personal lending increased by US$13.7bn reflecting growth in first lien residential mortgages, notably in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Balances in the UK increased following the success of marketing campaigns and competitive pricing. The rise in Hong Kong reflected the low interest rate environment and active property market, whereas growth in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, mainly in Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia, reflected the continued strength of property markets and expansion of our distribution network. Total personal lending balances in the US at 31 December 2012 were US$57bn, a decrease of 15% compared with the end of 2011. The decline reflected the run-off of our CML portfolio, which also fell due to the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. In Latin America, personal lending decreased by 4% compared with 31 December 2011, following a reduction in other personal lending in Brazil, where we managed down our exposure to non-strategic portfolios and focused on higher quality lending including first lien residential mortgage lending. This complemented a range of corrective actions, including improving our collections capabilities, reducing third party originations and improving credit scoring models. These actions were implemented to limit our exposure to further market weakness following a rise in delinquency in 2011 which continued in 2012. We also reclassified lending balances in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru to ‘Assets held for sale’. Mortgage lending (Unaudited) We offer a wide range of mortgage products designed to meet customer needs, including capital repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset mortgages. Group credit policy prescribes the range of acceptable residential property loan-to-value (‘LTV’) thresholds with the maximum upper limit for new loans set between 75% and 95%. Specific LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional and country levels and, although the parameters must comply with Group policy, strategy and risk appetite, they differ in the various locations in which we operate to reflect the local economic and housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio performance, pricing and other product features. 148 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis. At 31 December 2012, total mortgage lending, comprising first lien and second lien residential mortgages, was US$309bn, 5% higher than at the end of 2011. Our most significant concentrations of mortgage lending were in the UK, the US and Hong Kong. Mortgage lending products (Unaudited) UKUS$m Rest ofEuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m US4US$m Rest of NorthAmericaUS$m Other regions5US$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 First lien residential mortgages 127,024 8,148 52,296 49,417 20,716 44,261 301,862 Second lien residential mortgages 508 – – 5,959 363 131 6,961 Total mortgage lending (A) 127,532 8,148 52,296 55,376 21,079 44,392 308,823 Second lien as a percentage of A 0.4% – 0.0% 10.8% 1.7% 0.3% 2.3% Impairment allowances on mortgage lending (469 ) (64 ) (4 ) (4,675 ) (36 ) (249 ) (5,497 ) First lien residential mortgages (425 ) (64 ) (4 ) (4,133 ) (30 ) (249 ) (4,905 ) Second lien residential mortgages (44 ) – – (542 ) (6 ) – (592 ) Interest-only (including offset) mortgages 49,650 52 30 – 531 1,146 51,409 Affordability mortgages, including adjustable-rate mortgages (‘ARM’s) 6 532 19 18,456 – 5,135 24,148 Other 99 – – – – 204 303 Total interest-only, affordability mortgages and other 49,755 584 49 18,456 531 6,485 75,860 – as a percentage of A 39.0% 7.2% 0.1% 33.3% 2.5% 14.6% 24.6% At 31 December 2011 First lien residential mortgages 111,224 8,678 46,817 52,484 20,794 38,966 278,963 Second lien residential mortgages 694 – – 7,063 468 233 8,458 Total mortgage lending (B) 111,918 8,678 46,817 59,547 21,262 39,199 287,421 Second lien as a percentage of B 0.6% – – 11.9% 2.2% 0.6% 2.9% Impairment allowances on mortgage lending (425 ) (59 ) (12 ) (5,291 ) (36 ) (290 ) (6,113 ) First lien residential mortgages (383 ) (58 ) (12 ) (4,551 ) (27 ) (290 ) (5,321 ) Second lien residential mortgages (42 ) (1 ) – (740 ) (9 ) – (792 ) Interest-only (including offset) mortgages 46,886 48 46 – 667 1,210 48,857 Affordability mortgages, including ARMs 177 496 31 17,089 277 6,863 24,933 Other 106 – – – – 189 295 Total interest-only, affordability mortgages and other 47,169 544 77 17,089 944 8,262 74,085 – as a percentage of B 42.1% 6.3% 0.2% 28.7% 4.4% 21.1% 25.8% For footnotes, see page 249. Mortgage lending in the UK was US$128bn at 31 December 2012, representing the Group’s largest concentration of mortgage exposure, an increase of 9% compared with the end of 2011. The credit quality of our UK mortgage portfolio remained high, reflecting actions taken in previous years which included restrictions on lending to purchase residential property for the purpose of 149 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) rental. Almost all lending was originated through our own sales force, and the self-certification of income was not permitted. The majority of our mortgage lending in the UK was to existing customers who held current or savings accounts with HSBC. The average LTV ratio for new business was 59% during December 2012, while loan impairment charges and delinquency levels in our UK mortgage book remained stable, aided by the continued low levels of interest rates. Interest-only mortgage products in the UK totalled US$50bn or 39% of the UK mortgage portfolio, US$23bn or (47%) of which related to the first direct offset product where customers may adopt a capital repayment profile or make significant regular or one-off repayments, but are able to redraw additional funds within the agreed limit. Our affordability underwriting criteria for interest-only products are consistent with those for equivalent capital repayment mortgages, and such products are typically originated at more conservative LTV ratios. We monitor specific risk characteristics within the interest-only portfolio, such as current LTV ratio, age at expiry, current income levels and credit bureau scores. There are currently no concentrations of higher risk characteristics that cause the interest-only portfolio to be considered as carrying unduly high credit risk, and delinquency and impairment charges remain low, demonstrating similar performance characteristics to our capital repayment products. We run contact programmes to ensure we build an informed relationship with customers whereby they receive the appropriate support in meeting the final repayment of principal and understand the alternative repayment options available. In Hong Kong, mortgage lending was US$52bn, an increase of 11% compared with the end of 2011. The quality of our mortgage book was strong with loan impairment charges at very low levels. The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending was 48% and the average LTV for the overall portfolio was 32%. Mortgage balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific grew by 10% to US$37bn, mainly in Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia reflecting the continued strength of property markets and expansion of our distribution networks. Mortgage lending in the US (Unaudited) In the US, total mortgage lending balances were US$ 55bn at 31 December 2012, a decline of 7% compared with the end of 2011. Overall, US mortgage lending represented 13% of our total personal lending and 18% of our total mortgage lending, compared with 15% and 20%, respectively, at 31 December 2011. HSBC Finance At 31 December 2012, mortgage lending balances at HSBC Finance were US$39bn, a decline of 12% compared with the end of 2011 due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio. Our CML portfolio continued to be affected by high unemployment levels and a housing market that is slow to recover. In addition, our loan modification programmes, which are designed to manage customer relationships, improve cash collections and avoid foreclosure, contributed to slower loan repayment rates. HSBC Finance US CML6 – residential mortgages (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Residential mortgages First lien 35,092 39,608 Second lien 3,651 4,520 Total (A) 38,743 44,128 Impairment allowances 4,480 5,088 – as a percentage of (A) 11.6% 11.5% For footnote, see page 249. HSBC Bank USA In HSBC Bank USA, we continued to sell a substantial portion of new originations to the secondary market as a means of managing our interest rate risk and improving structural liquidity. Mortgage lending balances of US$17bn at 31 December 2012 remained broadly unchanged compared with the end of 2011, despite an increase in first lien residential mortgages, driven by increased origination to our Premier customers including higher balances of adjustable-rate mortgages. This was offset by a decline in other mortgages. 150 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Credit quality of personal lending in the US (Unaudited) For further information on renegotiated loans in North America, see page 158. Mortgage lending In our CML first lien residential mortgage portfolio, two months and over delinquent balances were US$7.6bn at 31 December 2012, compared with US$7.9bn at 31 December 2011. The decline mainly reflected the continued run-off of balances and the improvement in economic conditions. The reduction was partly offset by the increase in late stage delinquency driven by the suspension of foreclosure activities which began in late 2010. In our HSBC Bank USA portfolio, two months and over delinquent balances increased by 8% to US$1.4bn due also to foreclosure delays. In the US, second lien mortgage balances declined by 16% to US$6.0bn at 31 December 2012, representing 11% of the overall US mortgage lending portfolio. Two months and over delinquent balances were US$477m at 31 December 2012 compared with US$674m at 31 December 2011. The majority of second lien residential mortgages are taken up by customers who hold a first lien mortgage issued by a third party. Second lien residential mortgage loans have a risk profile characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in the majority of cases the loans were taken out to complete the refinancing of properties. Loss severity on default of second lien loans has typically approached 100% of the amount outstanding, as any equity in the property is consumed through the repayment of the first lien loan. Impairment allowances for these loans are determined by applying a roll-rate migration analysis which captures the propensity of these loans to default based on past experience. Once we believe that a second lien residential mortgage loan is likely to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in establishing our impairment allowance is close to 100% in the CML portfolios, and more than 80% in HSBC Bank USA. HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US (Unaudited) Year ended Half-year ended Year ended 2011 31 December 2012 31 December 2012 30 June 2012 Number of foreclosed properties at end of period 2,973 2,973 2,836 3,511 Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the period 6,827 3,212 3,615 11,187 Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties7 6% 6% 7% 8% Average total loss on foreclosed properties8 54% 53% 55% 56% Average time to sell foreclosed properties (days) 172 166 179 185 For footnotes, see page 249. In late 2010, we suspended all new foreclosure proceedings and, in early 2011, ceased foreclosures where judgement had yet to be entered while we enhanced our processes. We have now resumed the processing of suspended foreclosures in substantially all states, although there remains a significant backlog which will take time to resolve. Loss severities may be increased by any additional delays in the processing of foreclosures. The number of foreclosed properties at HSBC Finance at 31 December 2012 decreased compared with the end of December 2011 as the rate at which properties were added to real estate owned inventory was slow as a result of the backlog in foreclosure activities and the continuing sales of these properties during 2012. We expect that the number of foreclosed properties added to the inventory will increase and this will continue to be affected by ongoing refinements to our processes and extended foreclosure timelines. The average total loss on foreclosed properties and the average loss on sale of foreclosed properties decreased compared with 2011. This reflected a greater proportion of properties sold where we had accepted a deed-in-lieu. Typically, losses on a deed-in-lieu are lower than losses from properties acquired through a standard foreclosure process. The decrease in the loss on sale also reflected a slowdown in the rate of decline in house prices during 2012 and, in some markets, improvements in pricing compared with 2011. 151 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged as security for residential mortgages. Prior to foreclosure, carrying amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are written down to the discounted cash flows expected to be recovered, including from the sale of the property. Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every 180 days and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect any improvement or additional deterioration. Our methodology is regularly validated by comparing the discounted cash flows expected to be recovered based on current market conditions (including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property) to the updated broker price opinion, adjusted for the estimated historical difference between interior and exterior appraisals. The fair values of foreclosed properties are initially determined based on broker price opinions. Within 90 days of foreclosure, a more detailed property valuation is performed reflecting information obtained from a physical interior inspection of the property and additional allowances or write-downs are recorded as appropriate. Updates to the valuation are performed no less than once every 45 days until the property is sold, with declines or increases recognised through changes to allowances. Credit cards In the first half of 2012 we completed the sale of our US Card and Retail Services business, transferring general and private label credit card lending balances to the purchaser. The residual balances in the US at 31 December 2012 were related to HSBC Bank USA’s credit card programme. Personal non-credit card lending Personal non-credit card lending balances and two months and over delinquent balances in the US fell, largely due to the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ and portfolio run-off, as this business is closed to new advances. Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m In personal lending in the US First lien residential mortgages 8,926 9,065 8,632 Consumer and Mortgage Lending 7,629 7,922 7,618 Other mortgage lending 1,297 1,143 1,014 Second lien residential mortgages 477 674 847 Consumer and Mortgage Lending 350 501 668 Other mortgage lending 127 173 179 Credit card 27 714 957 Private label – 316 404 Personal non-credit card 335 513 811 Total 9,765 11,282 11,651 % % % As a percentage of the relevant loans and receivables balances First lien residential mortgages 18.1 17.1 15.0 Second lien residential mortgages 8.0 8.5 9.1 Credit card 3.3 3.8 4.7 Private label – 2.5 3.0 Personal non-credit card 7.4 8.3 9.5 Total 16.1 11.4 10.7 Wholesale lending (Unaudited) Wholesale lending covers the range of credit facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions, corporate entities and commercial borrowers. Our wholesale portfolios are well diversified across geographical and industry sectors, with certain exposures subject to specific portfolio controls. 152 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Total wholesale lending (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest of Asia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Corporate and commercial 223,061 99,199 85,305 22,452 47,886 35,590 513,493 – Manufacturing 56,690 10,354 19,213 3,373 9,731 12,788 112,149 – International trade and services 70,954 33,832 32,317 9,115 13,419 9,752 169,389 – Commercial real estate 33,279 23,384 9,286 865 6,572 3,374 76,760 – Other property-related 7,402 16,399 6,641 2,103 7,607 380 40,532 – Government 2,393 2,838 1,136 1,662 774 1,982 10,785 – Other commercial9 52,343 12,392 16,712 5,334 9,783 7,314 103,878 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 55,732 4,546 4,255 1,196 13,935 1,594 81,258 Asset-backed securities reclassified 3,694 – – – 197 – 3,891 Loans and advances to banks 45,320 23,500 44,592 9,198 13,465 16,528 152,603 Total wholesale lending (A) 327,807 127,245 134,152 32,846 75,483 53,712 751,245 Impairment allowances on wholesale lending Corporate and commercial 3,537 383 526 1,312 732 856 7,346 – Manufacturing 611 86 129 210 84 287 1,407 – International trade and services 992 233 185 360 189 329 2,288 – Commercial real estate 1,011 5 62 156 214 103 1,551 – Other property-related 164 20 81 241 102 13 621 – Government 15 – – 42 2 – 59 – Other commercial 744 39 69 303 141 124 1,420 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 318 29 11 157 37 2 554 Loans and advances to banks 40 – – 17 – – 57 Total 3,895 412 537 1,486 769 858 7,957 – as a percentage of A 1.19% 0.32% 0.40% 4.52% 1.02% 1.60% 1.06% At 31 December 2011 Corporate and commercial 204,984 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,271 35,930 472,816 – Manufacturing 45,632 9,004 16,909 3,517 7,888 13,104 96,054 – International trade and services 64,604 29,066 29,605 8,664 10,710 10,060 152,709 – Commercial real estate 32,099 20,828 9,537 1,002 7,069 3,406 73,941 – Other property-related 7,595 17,367 6,396 1,770 5,729 682 39,539 – Government 3,143 2,918 962 1,563 656 1,837 11,079 – Other commercial9 51,911 12,409 14,478 4,636 9,219 6,841 99,494 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 63,671 3,473 3,183 1,168 12,817 1,907 86,219 Asset-backed securities reclassified 4,776 – – – 504 – 5,280 Loans and advances to banks 54,406 35,159 47,309 8,571 14,831 20,836 181,112 Total wholesale lending (B) 327,837 130,224 128,379 30,891 69,423 58,673 745,427 Impairment allowances on wholesale lending Corporate and commercial 3,256 492 576 1,242 756 729 7,051 – Manufacturing 571 107 287 202 95 243 1,505 – International trade and services 962 316 154 428 166 298 2,324 – Commercial real estate 892 4 39 159 179 83 1,356 – Other property-related 155 15 22 154 154 16 516 – Government 4 – – 28 1 – 33 – Other commercial 672 50 74 271 161 89 1,317 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 435 26 11 149 76 3 700 Loans and advances to banks 49 – – 17 59 – 125 Total 3,740 518 587 1,408 891 732 7,876 – as a percentage of B 1.14% 0.40% 0.46% 4.56% 1.28% 1.25% 1.06% For footnote, see page 249. 153 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Corporate and commercial Corporate and commercial lending, excluding commercial real estate and other property-related lending, increased from US$365bn at 31 December 2011 to US$400bn at 31 December 2012. At 31 December 2012, this represented 39% of total gross loans and advances to customers, compared with 38% at 31 December 2011. The growth was mainly in the international trade and services sector, where balances mainly increased in Europe despite muted demand for credit and, in Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows. In the manufacturing sector, balances increased in Europe due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances and corresponding customer accounts which did not meet netting criteria under accounting rules. The aggregate of our commercial real estate and other property-related lending was US$117bn at 31 December 2012, 3% higher than at 31 December 2011, representing 12% of total loans and advances to customers. This growth was mainly in Hong Kong, where demand for funds remained strong despite a degree of market stabilisation after a sustained period of buoyancy in the property investment and property development sectors. Commercial real estate and other property-related lending also grew in North America due to an increase in originations in commercial mortgages, which reflected our continued focus on expanding our core offering to gain a larger presence in key growth markets, including the West Coast, Southeast and Midwest of the US. For information on refinancing in commercial real estate lending, see page 128. Financial (non-bank) Financial (non-bank) lending decreased from US$86bn at 31 December 2011 to US$81bn at 31 December 2012. This was mainly in Europe due to a decline in reverse repo activity, partly offset by higher balances in North America, due to an increase in reverse repo balances in Canada, and in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, driven by an increase in loans drawn by financial planning companies, leasing companies and insurance companies reflecting higher demand for funds from a small number of corporates. Loans and advances to banks Loans and advances to banks decreased from US$181bn at 31 December 2011 to US$153bn at 31 December 2012. This was mainly driven by maturities and repayments in Hong Kong together with a decline in reverse repos in Europe reflecting, in part, the redeployment of liquidity to central banks. Credit quality of financial instruments (Audited) A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the credit quality of financial instruments is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 253. The five classifications describing the credit quality of our lending, debt securities portfolios and derivatives are defined on page 253. Additional credit quality information in respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided on page 259. For the purpose of the following disclosure, retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance with our disclosure convention (see page 253), are not disclosed within the expected loss (‘EL’) grade to which they relate, but are separately classified as past due but not impaired. 2012 compared with 2011 (Unaudited) We assess credit quality on all financial instruments which are subject to credit risk, as shown in the table on page 155. The balance of these financial instruments was US$2,516bn at 31 December 2012, an increase of 4% over 2011, of which US$1,690bn or 67% was classified as ‘strong’. This percentage declined marginally compared with 68% at 31 December 2011. The proportion of financial instruments classified as ‘good’ remained broadly stable at 16% and the proportion of ‘satisfactory’ balances increased marginally from 12% to 14%. The proportion of ‘sub-standard’ financial instruments remained low at 2% in both 2012 and 2011. The proportion of trading assets classified as ‘strong’ declined from 75% to 65%. Overall trading assets rose, largely in Europe, due to an increase in holdings of debt securities from 2011’s subdued levels which, coupled with the downgrading of certain eurozone countries, resulted in an absolute and relative increase in debt securities classified as ‘good’. In addition, holdings of ‘strong’ treasury and other eligible bills fell both absolutely and relative to the rest of trading assets primarily in Hong Kong due to maturities without replacement of government bonds, while increased levels of reverse repo and stock lending balances with customers increased the proportion of ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ classifications compared with ‘strong’. 154 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The proportion of financial investments categorised as ‘strong’ remained high at 86% and 87%, at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 respectively, as the year-on-year increase in balances was mainly due to the deployment of surplus liquidity into highly-rated government, quasi-government and supranational debt securities in North America and Hong Kong. The proportion of cash and balances at central banks considered ‘strong’ remained high at 98%, reflecting deployment of surplus liquidity into central banks in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. The proportion of loans and advances held at amortised cost and categorised as ‘strong’ remained broadly flat compared with the end of 2011 at 54%. Derivative balances classified as ‘strong’ declined marginally from 81% to 79%; the movement in balances was mainly in Europe reflecting fair value movements of existing contracts. The following table shows our distribution of financial instruments by measures of credit quality: Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (Audited) Neither past due nor impaired Past due Impair- StrongUS$m GoodUS$m SatisfactoryUS$m Sub- standardUS$m but not impairedUS$m ImpairedUS$m ment allowances10US$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Cash and balances at central banks 138,124 3,235 147 26 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,661 203 439 – 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 22,743 – – – 22,743 Trading assets11 237,078 60,100 66,537 3,462 367,177 – treasury and other eligible bills 20,793 4,108 1,340 41 26,282 – debt securities 106,453 16,685 20,931 608 144,677 – loans and advances:to banks 49,133 21,018 7,418 702 78,271 to customers 60,699 18,289 36,848 2,111 117,947 Financial assets designated at fair value11 6,186 5,884 401 243 12,714 – treasury and other eligible bills 54 – – – 54 – debt securities 6,089 5,830 391 241 12,551 – loans and advances:to banks 43 – 10 2 55 to customers – 54 – – 54 Derivatives11 284,115 46,214 24,877 2,244 357,450 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 625,091 246,323 213,241 23,996 18,911 38,776 (16,169 ) 1,150,169 – to banks 117,220 23,921 10,575 772 10 105 (57 ) 152,546 – to customers12 507,871 222,402 202,666 23,224 18,901 38,671 (16,112 ) 997,623 Financial investments 357,452 27,428 21,143 6,759 – 2,530 415,312 – treasury and other similar bills 80,320 3,818 1,957 1,455 – – 87,550 – debt securities 277,132 23,610 19,186 5,304 – 2,530 327,762 Assets held for sale 2,425 3,287 2,311 314 387 1,286 (718 ) 9,292 – disposal groups 2,033 1,118 1,789 268 118 82 (49 ) 5,359 – non-current assets held for sale 392 2,169 522 46 269 1,204 (669 ) 3,933 Other assets 9,679 6,007 13,845 1,759 231 462 31,983 – endorsements and acceptances 1,995 4,344 5,195 483 7 8 12,032 – accrued income and other 7,684 1,663 8,650 1,276 224 454 19,951 Total financial instruments 1,689,554 398,681 342,941 38,803 19,529 43,054 (16,887 ) 2,515,675 155 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (continued) Neither past due nor impaired Past due Impair- StrongUS$m GoodUS$m SatisfactoryUS$m Sub- standardUS$m but not impaired US$m ImpairedUS$m ment allowances10 US$m Total US$m At 31 December 2011 Cash and balances at central banks 126,926 2,678 263 35 129,902 Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,707 150 350 1 8,208 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 20,922 – – – 20,922 Trading assets11 231,594 37,182 39,171 1,502 309,449 – treasury and other eligible bills 33,199 538 564 8 34,309 – debt securities 103,163 8,497 18,188 639 130,487 – loans and advances:to banks 49,021 20,699 5,186 619 75,525 to customers 46,211 7,448 15,233 236 69,128 Financial assets designated at fair value11 7,176 4,728 830 192 12,926 – treasury and other eligible bills 123 – – – 123 – debt securities 6,148 4,728 767 191 11,834 – loans and advances:to banks 55 – 63 1 119 to customers 850 – – – 850 Derivatives11 279,557 45,858 18,627 2,337 346,379 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 609,081 245,352 194,661 28,210 20,009 41,739 (17,636 ) 1,121,416 – to banks 144,815 28,813 6,722 568 39 155 (125 ) 180,987 – to customers12 464,266 216,539 187,939 27,642 19,970 41,584 (17,511 ) 940,429 Financial investments 340,173 24,757 22,139 3,532 – 2,233 392,834 – treasury and other similar bills 58,627 3,348 3,144 104 – – 65,223 – debt securities 281,546 21,409 18,995 3,428 – 2,233 327,611 Assets held for sale 14,365 12,587 7,931 536 2,524 1,479 (1,614 ) 37,808 – disposal groups 14,317 12,587 7,931 536 2,522 1,467 (1,614 ) 37,746 – non-current assets held for sale 48 – – – 2 12 – 62 Other assets 11,956 6,526 12,379 1,193 421 517 32,992 – endorsements and acceptances 1,789 4,075 4,629 504 10 3 11,010 – accrued income and other 10,167 2,451 7,750 689 411 514 21,982 Total financial instruments 1,649,457 379,818 296,351 37,538 22,954 45,968 (19,250 ) 2,412,836 For footnotes, see page 249. Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments (Audited) Past due but not impaired loans are those in respect of which the customer is in the early stages of delinquency and has failed to make a payment or a partial payment in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement. This is typically when a loan is less than 90 days past due and there are no other indicators of impairment. Further examples of exposures past due but not impaired include individually assessed mortgages that are in arrears more than 90 days, but there are no other indicators of impairment and the value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal debt and all potential interest for at least one year, or short-term trade facilities past due more than 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in documentation but there is no concern over the creditworthiness of the counterparty. When groups of loans are collectively assessed for impairment, 156 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) collective impairment allowances are recognised for loans classified as past due but not impaired. At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of loans and advances held at amortised cost were classified as past due but not impaired (2011: US$20bn). The largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC Finance. The decrease in 2012 was primarily in North America in the CML portfolio, due to the reclassification of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ as well as the continued run-off of the lending balances. This was partly offset by increases in Rest of Asia-Pacific relating to a number of corporate exposures across the region. The rise in Latin America was mainly in Panama in the corporate and commercial sector across various industries. In Europe, the increase in past due but not impaired loans mainly related to business expansion in Turkey. In Hong Kong, the rise was mainly in overdrafts and term lending. Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by geographical region (Audited) EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 31 December 2012 Banks – – 10 – – – 10 Customers 2,339 1,311 2,964 975 7,721 3,591 18,901 Personal 1,416 638 1,961 248 5,806 2,198 12,267 Corporate and commercial 909 579 953 726 1,910 1,360 6,437 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 14 94 50 1 5 33 197 2,339 1,311 2,974 975 7,721 3,591 18,911 31 December 2011 Banks – 38 1 – – – 39 Customers 1,990 1,069 2,318 1,165 10,216 3,212 19,970 Personal 1,362 715 1,626 166 7,941 2,141 13951 Corporate and commercial 614 346 680 997 2,159 1,059 5855 Financial (non-bank financial institutions) 14 8 12 2 116 12 164 1,990 1,107 2,319 1,165 10,216 3,212 20,009 Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments (Audited) Up to 29daysUS$m 30-59daysUS$m 60-89daysUS$m 90-179daysUS$m 180 days and overUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 14,236 3,189 1,262 200 24 18,911 – to banks 10 – – – – 10 – to customers 14,226 3,189 1,262 200 24 18,901 Assets held for sale 251 84 48 2 2 387 – disposal groups 87 17 11 1 2 118 – non-current assets held for sale 164 67 37 1 – 269 Other assets 122 37 24 12 36 231 – endorsements and acceptances 6 1 – – – 7 – other 116 36 24 12 36 224 14,609 3,310 1,334 214 62 19,529 At 31 December 2011 Loans and advances held at amortised cost 14,239 3,680 1,727 223 140 20,009 – to banks 39 – – – – 39 – to customers 14,200 3,680 1,727 223 140 19,970 Assets held for sale 1,563 644 307 8 2 2,524 – disposal groups 1,563 644 307 7 1 2,522 – non-current assets held for sale – – – 1 1 2 Other assets 225 80 37 22 57 421 – endorsements and acceptances 7 2 – 1 – 10 – other 218 78 37 21 57 411 16,027 4,404 2,071 253 199 22,954 157 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Renegotiated loans and forbearance (Audited) Current policies and procedures regarding renegotiated loans and forbearance are described in the Appendix to Risk on page 254. The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons, which include changing market conditions, customer retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer. Loans are classified as ‘renegotiated loans’ when their contractual payment terms have been modified because we have significant concerns about the borrowers’ ability to meet contractual payments when due. For the purposes of this disclosure, the term ‘forbearance’ is synonymous with the renegotiation of loans for these reasons. The following tables show the gross carrying amounts of the Group’s holdings of renegotiated loans and advances to customers by industry sector, geography and credit quality classification. Renegotiated loans and advances to customers (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Neitherpast due norimpairedUS$m Past duebut notimpairedUS$m ImpairedUS$m TotalUS$m Neitherpast due norimpairedUS$m Past duebut notimpairedUS$m Impaired US$m Total US$m Personal 7,952 3,524 18,279 29,755 8,133 4,401 19,125 31,659 First lien residential mortgages 5,861 2,828 15,459 24,148 5,916 3,560 15,932 25,408 Other personal1 2,091 696 2,820 5,607 2,217 841 3,193 6,251 Corporate and commercial 4,608 295 6,892 11,795 6,338 472 6,756 13,566 Manufacturing and international trade services 2,381 154 3,012 5,547 2,396 255 2,755 5,406 Commercial real estate and other property-related 1,796 10 3,484 5,290 2,949 122 3,550 6,621 Governments 177 – – 177 113 2 132 247 Other commercial9 254 131 396 781 880 93 319 1,292 Financial 255 – 422 677 249 – 491 740 12,815 3,819 25,593 42,227 14,720 4,873 26,372 45,965 Total renegotiated loans and advances to customers as a percentage of total gross loans and advances to customers 4.2% 4.8% For footnotes, see page 249. Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region (Audited) EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 31 December 2012 Personal 2,817 245 248 190 25,474 781 29,755 First lien residential mortgages 1,896 68 78 112 21,896 98 24,148 Other personal1 921 177 170 78 3,578 683 5,607 Corporate and commercial 6,829 147 300 1,859 685 1,975 11,795 Manufacturing and international trade services 3,002 22 193 659 191 1,480 5,547 Commercial real estate and other property-related 3,641 25 37 899 486 202 5,290 Governments – – – 2 – 175 177 Other commercial9 186 100 70 299 8 118 781 Financial 328 – 4 340 3 2 677 9,974 392 552 2,389 26,162 2,758 42,227 Total impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 1,547 16 96 546 3,864 485 6,554 Individually assessed 1,545 15 63 543 39 213 2,418 Collectively assessed 2 1 33 3 3,825 272 4,136 158 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 31 December 2011 Personal 2,524 285 267 220 27,773 590 31,659 First lien residential mortgages 1,630 86 85 93 23,442 72 25,408 Other personal1 894 199 182 127 4,331 518 6,251 Corporate and commercial 8,453 157 181 2,198 700 1,877 13,566 Manufacturing and international trade services 3,013 32 104 887 174 1,196 5,406 Commercial real estate and other property-related 4,897 29 45 913 522 215 6,621 Governments – – – 5 – 242 247 Other commercial9 543 96 32 393 4 224 1,292 Financial 487 5 – 237 2 9 740 11,464 447 448 2,655 28,475 2,476 45,965 Total impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 1,821 20 64 300 5,017 448 7,670 Individually assessed 1,760 19 41 300 44 147 2,311 Collectively assessed 61 1 23 – 4,973 301 5,359 For footnotes, see page 249. 2012 compared with 2011 (Unaudited) Renegotiated loans totalled US$42bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$46bn). North America accounted for the largest volume of renegotiated loans which amounted to US$26bn or 62% of total renegotiated loans at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$28bn or 62%), most of which were first lien residential mortgages held by HSBC Finance. Of the total renegotiated loans in North America, US$17bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$18bn). The ratio of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 was 23% (2011: 28%). This decrease was driven by a reduction in both impaired loans and impairment allowances as we continued to run-off the CML portfolio. As the portfolio has been closed to new business since 2007, the volume of first time renegotiations has reduced significantly. In Europe, renegotiated loans at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$10bn (2011: US$11bn), constituting 24% of total renegotiated loans (2011: 25%). Of the total renegotiated loans in Europe, US$5.7bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$6.0bn), and the ratio of total impairment allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 was 27% (2011: 30%). This decline was driven by a reduction in both impaired loans and impairment allowances due to releases and write-offs of a number of non-performing loans as well as the sale of a number of exposures. The renegotiated loans in Europe largely consisted of commercial real estate and other property-related sector lending of 37% (2011: 43%) mainly in the UK, and manufacturing and international trade services sector lending of 30% (2011: 26%). Forbearance within Latin America (primarily in Mexico and Brazil) was predominantly undertaken in the manufacturing and international trade services sector. The largest increase in renegotiated loans compared with 2011 was in this sector in Mexico. In addition, renegotiation activity in the personal lending portfolios increased in Brazil, where a collections campaign led to a significant increase in both the refinancing and debt consolidation portfolios. In the Middle East and North Africa, renegotiated loans decreased compared with 2011, mainly in the corporate and commercial sector due to repayments and reduced exposures. Forbearance activity in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific remained insignificant. HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing (Unaudited) HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and re-age (‘loan renegotiation’) programmes in order to manage customer relationships, improve collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure. Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a significant portion of its loan portfolio has been subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of the customer relationship as a consequence of the economic conditions in the US and the nature of HSBC Finance’s customer base. 159 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The volume of loans that qualify for modification has reduced significantly in recent years. We expect this trend to continue as HSBC Finance believes the percentage of its customers with unmodified loans who would benefit from loan modification in a way that would avoid non-payment of future cash flows is decreasing. In addition, volumes of new loan modifications are expected to decrease due to gradual improvements in economic conditions, the cessation of new real estate secured and personal non-credit card receivables originations and the continued run-off of the CML portfolio. Types of loan renegotiation programme in HSBC Finance • A temporary modification is a change to the contractual terms of a loan that results in the giving up of a right to contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period. With a temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate charged, after the modification period. An example is reduced interest payments. A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications involve interest rate reductions. These modifications lower the amount of interest income HSBC Finance is contractually entitled to receive in future periods. Historically, modifications have generally been for six months, although extended modification periods are now more common. Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired with the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less than 60 days past due at the time of re-age. These remain classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against their original contracted terms for at least 12 months. • A permanent modification is a change to the contractual terms of a loan that results in giving up a right to contractual cash flows over the life of the loan. An example is a permanent reduction in the interest rate charged. Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for their full life. • The term ‘re-age’ describes a renegotiation by which the contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current after demonstrating payment performance. The overdue principal and/or interest is deferred and paid at a later date. Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable to make a small number of payments to have their loan delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score is not affected by the overdue balances. Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against the original contractual terms for at least 12 months. A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without any modification to its original terms and conditions. Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, subject to the qualifying criteria discussed below, the concession is deemed to have been made due to concern regarding the borrower’s ability to pay, and the loan is disclosed as impaired. The loan remains disclosed as impaired from that date forward until the borrower has demonstrated a history of repayment performance for the period of time required for either modifications or re-ages, as described above. Qualifying criteria For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must meet certain criteria. However, HSBC Finance retains the right to decline a renegotiation. The extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates accounts that are eligible under its existing policies will vary depending upon its view of prevailing economic conditions and other factors which may change from year to year. In addition, exceptions to policies and practices may be made in specific situations in response to legal or regulatory agreements or orders. Renegotiated real estate secured and personal lending receivables are not eligible for a subsequent renegotiation for twelve or six months, respectively, with a maximum of five renegotiations permitted within a five-year period. Borrowers must be approved for a modification and generally make two minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 days to activate a modification. In certain circumstances where the debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no payments may be required. Accounts whose borrowers are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged upon receipt of one qualifying payment, whereas accounts whose borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection may be re-aged upon receipt of a signed reaffirmation agreement. In addition, for some products, accounts may be re-aged without receipt of a payment in certain special circumstances (e.g. in the event of a natural disaster or a hardship programme). 2012 compared with 2011 At 31 December 2012, renegotiated real estate secured accounts in HSBC Finance represented 86% (2011: 86%) of North America’s total renegotiated loans; US$14bn (2011: US$16bn) of these renegotiated real estate secured loans were classified as impaired. This decline was mainly due to lower lending balances as we continued to run-off the CML portfolio. A significant portion of HSBC Finance’s renegotiated portfolio has received multiple renegotiations. Consequently, a significant proportion of loans included in the table below have undergone multiple re-ages or modifications. In this regard, multiple modifications have remained consistent at 75% to 80% of total modifications. Further details of HSBC Finance’s real estate secured accounts and renegotiation programmes are provided below. 160 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances (Unaudited) Re-aged US$m 13 Modified and re-agedUS$m ModifiedUS$m Total re- negotiated loansUS$m Total non- renegotiated loans US$m Total gross loansUS$m Total impair- ment allowancesUS$m Impair- ment allowances/ gross loans% 31 December 2012 9,640 11,660 1,121 22,421 16,261 38,743 4,481 12 31 December 2011 10,265 12,829 1,494 24,588 19,540 44,128 5,088 12 For footnote, see page 249. Movement in HSBC Finance renegotiated real estate balances (Unaudited) 2012 US$m At 1 January 24,588 Additions 1,221 Payments (1,133 ) Write-offs (1,796 ) Transfer to ‘Assets held for sale’ and ‘Other assets’ (459 ) At 31 December 22,421 Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio (Unaudited) Number of renegotiated loans (000s) Totalnumber ofloans (000s) Re-aged Modified and re-aged Modified Total 31 December 2012 117 107 11 235 427 31 December 2011 121 112 14 246 469 During 2012, the aggregate number of renegotiated loans reduced due to the run-off of the portfolio. Within the constraints of our Group credit policy, HSBC Finance’s policies allow for multiple renegotiations under certain circumstances, and a significant number of accounts received a second (or further) renegotiation during the year which does not appear in the statistics tabulated above because they present a loan as an addition to the volume of renegotiated loans on its first renegotiation only. At 31 December 2012, renegotiated loans were 58% (2011: 56%) of the total portfolio of HSBC Finance’s real estate secured accounts. Corporate and commercial forbearance (Unaudited) For the current policies and procedures regarding forbearance in the corporate and commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk on page 257. Renegotiated loan balances in the corporate and commercial sector decreased by US$1.8bn. The majority of the decrease was due to falling renegotiated loan balances in the commercial real estate and other property-related sector in 2012, which fell by US$1.3bn. This was primarily in Europe although the commercial real estate sector, particularly in the UK, continued to experience weaker property values, with fewer financial institutions financing commercial real estate lending, renegotiated loan balances fell as refinements in forbearance identification procedures reduced the renegotiated loan balances in UK commercial real estate and other property-related lending. Excluding the change in basis of reporting renegotiated loans, total renegotiated loans in the commercial real estate and other property-related sector remained broadly unchanged. Within the commercial real estate and other property-related loans, the balances classified as ‘impaired’ declined marginally compared with 2011. Balances classified as ‘past due but not impaired’ declined by US$112m, mainly in the Middle East and North Africa relating to a small number of exposures in the UAE. Balances classified as ‘neither past due nor impaired’ declined by 39%, mainly in Europe reflecting the reduction in balances in the commercial real estate sector described above. The commercial real estate mid-market sector continued to experience higher levels of renegotiation activity than larger corporates, where borrowers remained generally better capitalised with access to wider funding market opportunities. When considering acceptable restructuring terms for commercial real estate loans in Europe, we take into account the ability of the customer to service 161 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) the revised interest payments as a prerequisite. Similarly, for principal payment modifications, we require the customer to be capable of complying with the revised terms as a necessary pre-condition. When principal payments are modified and permanent forgiveness results, or when it is otherwise considered that there is no longer a realistic prospect of recovering outstanding principal, the affected balances are written off. When principal repayments are postponed, the customer is expected to be able to pay in line with the renegotiated terms, including meeting the postponed principal repayment if due from refinancing. In all cases, a loan renegotiation is only granted when it is expected that the customer will be able to meet the revised terms. Renegotiated loan balances in the manufacturing and international trade services sector increased in 2012, mainly in Latin America from the restructuring of a small number of loans in Mexico. In the Middle East and North Africa, renegotiated loan balances decreased, partly due to the repayment of a significant loan in the UAE. Impaired loans (Audited) Impaired loans and advances are those that meet any of the following criteria: • loans and advances classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10 (a description of our internal credit rating grades is provided on page 253); • retail exposures 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired; or • renegotiated loans and advances that have been subject to a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would not otherwise consider, and where it is probable that without the concession the borrower would be unable to meet its contractual payment obligations in full, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. Renegotiated loans remain classified as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment. For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence to support reclassification as no longer impaired typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, depending on the nature and volume of forbearance and the credit risk characteristics surrounding the renegotiation. For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis. In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority of HSBC’s loan forbearance activity occurs, the history of payment performance is assessed with reference to the original terms of the contract, reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of this portfolio. The payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. Further disclosure about loans subject to forbearance is provided on page 254. Renegotiated loans and forbearance disclosures are subject to evolving industry practice and regulatory guidance. 162 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Movement in impaired loans by geographical region (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m Impaired loans at 1 January 2012 11,819 608 1,070 2,445 22,758 3,039 41,739 Personal 2,797 190 388 428 21,094 1,646 26,543 Corporate and commercial 8,113 372 667 1,798 1,517 1,391 13,858 Financial2 909 46 15 219 147 2 1,338 Classified as impaired during the year 3,482 292 924 648 8,130 4,507 17,983 Personal 933 169 549 73 7,363 2,807 11,894 Corporate and commercial 2,481 123 375 531 739 1,696 5,945 Financial2 68 – – 44 28 4 144 Transferred from impaired to unimpaired during the year (1,164 ) (47 ) (85 ) (321 ) (4,223 ) (1,765 ) (7,605 ) Personal (279 ) (38 ) (69 ) (32 ) (4,124 ) (1,124 ) (5,666 ) Corporate and commercial (858 ) (5 ) (15 ) (289 ) (99 ) (640 ) (1,906 ) Financial2 (27 ) (4 ) (1 ) – – (1 ) (33 ) Amounts written off (1,891 ) (217 ) (564 ) (264 ) (3,514 ) (2,112 ) (8,562 ) Personal (632 ) (127 ) (373 ) (96 ) (3,227 ) (1,521 ) (5,976 ) Corporate and commercial (1,212 ) (90 ) (191 ) (143 ) (202 ) (590 ) (2,428 ) Financial2 (47 ) – – (25 ) (85 ) (1 ) (158 ) Net repayments and other (1,101 ) (159 ) (198 ) (34 ) (2,806 ) (481 ) (4,779 ) Personal (353 ) (22 ) (56 ) (5 ) (2,380 ) (228 ) (3,044 ) Corporate and commercial (466 ) (133 ) (136 ) (26 ) (363 ) (253 ) (1,377 ) Financial2 (282 ) (4 ) (6 ) (3 ) (63 ) – (358 ) At 31 December 2012 11,145 477 1,147 2,474 20,345 3,188 38,776 Personal 2,466 172 439 368 18,726 1,580 23,751 Corporate and commercial 8,058 267 700 1,872 1,592 1,604 14,093 Financial2 621 38 8 234 27 4 932 For footnote, see page 249. Collateral Collateral and other credit enhancements held (Audited) Loans and advances held at amortised cost Although collateral can be an important mitigant of credit risk, it is the Group’s practice to lend on the basis of the customer’s ability to meet their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than rely on the value of security offered. Depending on the customer’s standing and the type of product, facilities may be provided unsecured. However, for other lending a charge over collateral is obtained and considered in determining the credit decision and pricing. In the event of default, the bank may utilise the collateral as a source of repayment. Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure to credit risk. The tables below provide a quantification of the value of fixed charges we hold over a borrower’s specific asset (or assets) where we have a history of enforcing, and are able to enforce, the collateral in satisfying a debt in the event of the borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, and where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an established market. The collateral valuation in the tables below excludes any adjustments for obtaining and selling the collateral. We may also manage our risk by employing other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements, such as second charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation of such mitigants is less certain and their financial effect has not been quantified. In particular, loans shown in the tables below as not collateralised or partially collateralised may benefit from such credit mitigants. Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in portfolio management activities. While single name concentrations arise in portfolios managed by Global Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio level credit mitigants. Across Global Banking risk limits and utilisations, maturity profiles and risk quality are monitored and managed pro-actively. This process is key to the setting of risk appetite for these larger, more complex, geographically distributed customer groups. While the principal 163 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) form of risk management continues to be at the point of exposure origination, through the lending decision-making process, Global Banking also utilises loan sales and credit default swap (‘CDS’) hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk. These transactions are the responsibility of a dedicated Global Banking portfolio management team. Hedging activity is carried out within agreed credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits and a robust governance structure. CDS mitigants are held at portfolio level and are not reported in the presentation below. Personal lending Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Fully collateralised 141,673 53,478 43,662 2,106 59,799 5,193 305,911 Loan to value (‘LTV’) ratio: – less than 25% 11,733 8,090 4,438 125 3,703 319 28,408 – 25% to 50% 36,038 30,155 12,752 623 10,934 1,522 92,022 – 51% to 75% 60,395 12,770 19,625 1,001 26,582 2,295 122,668 – 76% to 90% 27,118 1,931 6,195 189 12,307 871 48,611 – 91% to 100% 6,389 532 652 168 6,273 186 14,200 Partially collateralised: – greater than 100% LTV 2,967 2 376 85 10,210 16 13,656 – collateral value 2,565 1 323 76 8,684 12 11,661 Total residential mortgages 144,640 53,480 44,038 2,191 70,009 5,209 319,567 At 31 December 2011 Fully collateralised 125,702 46,532 38,381 1,761 60,794 4,891 278,061 LTV ratio: – less than 25% 9,898 5,364 2,383 58 3,576 282 21,561 – 25% to 50% 31,601 19,643 9,978 336 10,593 1,350 73,501 – 51% to 75% 52,656 17,748 18,006 895 25,138 2,221 116,664 – 76% to 90% 23,919 2,884 7,624 304 13,590 876 49,197 – 91% to 100% 7,628 893 390 168 7,897 162 17,138 Partially collateralised: – greater than 100% LTV 3,275 484 295 174 12,503 102 16,833 – collateral value 2,821 466 37 135 10,566 24 14,049 Total residential mortgages 128,977 47,016 38,676 1,935 73,297 4,993 294,894 The above table shows residential mortgage lending including off-balance sheet loan commitments by level of collateral. Off-balance sheet commitments include loans that have been approved but which the customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such as the offset mortgage product. The collateral included in the table above consists of first charges on real estate. The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross on-balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any off-balance sheet loan commitment at the balance sheet date divided by the value of collateral. The methodologies for obtaining residential property collateral values vary throughout the Group, but are typically determined through a combination of professional appraisals, house price indices or statistical analysis. Valuations must be updated on a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals of every three years. Valuations are conducted more frequently when market conditions or portfolio performance are subject to significant change or when a loan is identified and assessed as impaired. The LTV ratio bandings are consistent with our internal risk management reporting. While we do have mortgages in the higher LTV bands, our appetite for such lending is restricted and the larger portion of our portfolio is concentrated in the lower risk LTV bandings of 75% and below. Other personal lending Other personal lending consists primarily of overdrafts, credit cards and second lien mortgage portfolios. Second lien lending is supported by collateral but the claim on the collateral is 164 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) subordinate to the first lien charge. The majority of our second lien portfolios were originated in North America where loss experience on defaulted second lien loans has typically approached 100%; consequently, we do not generally attach any significant financial value to this type of collateral. Credit cards and overdrafts are usually unsecured. Corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) lending Collateral held is analysed separately below for commercial real estate and for other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. This reflects the difference in collateral held on the portfolios. In each case, the analysis includes off-balance sheet loan commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines. Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7 Not collateralised 7,068 10,790 3,647 569 181 2,083 24,338 Fully collateralised 23,450 17,355 6,106 92 9,054 1,846 57,903 Partially collateralised (A) 3,088 1,476 1,150 33 1,063 903 7,713 – collateral value on A 2,780 1,179 464 29 401 423 5,276 33,606 29,621 10,903 694 10,298 4,832 89,954 Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 Not collateralised 418 – – 14 34 105 571 Fully collateralised 1,261 2 60 8 408 141 1,880 LTV ratio: – less than 25% 34 – 1 – 25 10 70 – 25% to 50% 119 1 55 7 86 8 276 – 51% to 75% 437 – 2 – 69 28 536 – 76% to 90% 501 – 1 – 58 63 623 – 91% to 100% 170 1 1 1 170 32 375 Partially collateralised (B) 1,585 – 51 204 377 24 2,241 – collateral value on B 938 – 15 111 265 13 1,342 3,264 2 111 226 819 270 4,692 Total commercial real estate loans and advances 36,870 29,623 11,014 920 11,117 5,102 94,646 At 31 December 2011 Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7 Not collateralised 5,730 12,552 2,973 631 97 2,136 24,119 Fully collateralised 24,547 11,734 6,929 65 8,506 1,706 53,487 Partially collateralised (C) 3,099 916 1,032 50 1,635 999 7,731 – collateral value on C 1,775 591 280 39 311 559 3,555 33,376 25,202 10,934 746 10,238 4,841 85,337 Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 Not collateralised 434 2 10 55 135 127 763 Fully collateralised 1,413 2 23 74 521 196 2,229 LTV ratio: – less than 25% 24 – – – 65 9 98 – 25% to 50% 140 2 – – 5 21 168 – 51% to 75% 935 – 1 – 217 28 1,181 – 76% to 90% 159 – 2 74 61 117 413 – 91% to 100% 155 – 20 – 173 21 369 Partially collateralised (D) 1,921 – 42 181 401 3 2,548 – collateral value on D 1,083 – 26 89 246 1 1,445 3,768 4 75 310 1,057 326 5,540 Total commercial real estate loans and advances 37,144 25,206 11,009 1,056 11,295 5,167 90,877 The collateral included in the table above consists of fixed first charges on real estate and charges over cash for commercial real estate. These facilities are disclosed as not collateralised if they are unsecured or benefit from credit risk mitigation from guarantees, which are not quantified for the 165 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) purposes of this disclosure. In Hong Kong, market practice is for lending to major property companies to be typically secured by guarantees or unsecured. In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are generally not secured by a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed as not collateralised. The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined through a combination of professional and internal valuations and physical inspection. Due to the complexity of valuing collateral for commercial real estate, local valuation policies determine the frequency of review based on local market conditions. Revaluations are sought with greater frequency when, as part of the regular credit assessment of the obligor, material concerns arise in relation to the transaction which may reflect on the underlying performance of the collateral, or in circumstances where an obligor’s credit quality has declined sufficiently to cause concern that the principal payment source may not fully meet the obligation (i.e. the obligor’s credit quality classification indicates it is at the lower end, that is sub-standard, or approaching impaired). Where such concerns exist the revaluation method selected will depend upon the loan-to-value relationship, the direction in which the local commercial real estate market has moved since the last valuation and, most importantly, the specific characteristics of the underlying commercial real estate which is of concern. Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 only (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest of Asia-Pacific US$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Not collateralised 5,110 260 572 1,186 533 1,023 8,684 Fully collateralised 1,463 82 146 132 478 284 2,585 LTV ratio: – less than 25% 77 3 11 – 11 68 170 – 25% to 50% 192 4 62 6 49 84 397 – 51% to 75% 290 39 31 33 131 61 585 – 76% to 90% 196 24 11 18 96 17 362 – 91% to 100% 708 12 31 75 191 54 1,071 Partially collateralised (A) 1,106 84 251 828 753 273 3,295 – collateral value on A 628 41 89 124 359 108 1,349 7,679 426 969 2,146 1,764 1,580 14,564 At 31 December 2011 Not collateralised 5,583 349 795 1,695 801 1,546 10,769 Fully collateralised 1,765 63 147 60 441 602 3,078 LTV ratio: – less than 25% 173 4 10 3 16 106 312 – 25% to 50% 274 47 29 3 38 74 465 – 51% to 75% 587 11 32 31 51 96 808 – 76% to 90% 153 – 32 20 128 21 354 – 91% to 100% 578 1 44 3 208 305 1,139 Partially collateralised (B) 1,367 100 156 498 1,206 390 3,717 – collateral value on B 558 55 76 103 541 214 1,547 8,715 512 1,098 2,253 2,448 2,538 17,564 The collateral used in the assessment of the above lending primarily includes first legal charges over real estate and charges over cash in the commercial and industrial sector, and charges over cash and marketable financial instruments in the financial sector. Government sector lending is generally unsecured. It should be noted that the table above excludes other types of collateral which are commonly taken for corporate and commercial lending such as unsupported guarantees and floating charges over the assets of a customer’s business. While such mitigants have value, often providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is insufficiently certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure purposes. As with commercial real estate, the value of real estate collateral included in the table above is 166 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) generally determined through a combination of professional and internal valuations and physical inspection. The frequency of revaluation is undertaken on a similar basis to commercial real estate loans and advances; however, for financing activities in corporate and commercial lending that are not predominantly commercial real estate-oriented, collateral value is not as strongly correlated to principal repayment performance. Collateral values will generally be refreshed when an obligor’s general credit performance deteriorates and it is necessary to assess the likely performance of secondary sources of repayment should reliance upon them prove necessary. For this reason, the table above reports values only for customers with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these loans and advances generally have valuations which are comparatively recent. For the table above, cash is valued at its nominal value and marketable securities at their fair value. The difference between the collateral value and the value of partially collateralised lending disclosed in the tables above cannot be directly compared with any impairment allowances recognised in respect of impaired loans, as the loans may be performing in accordance with their contractual terms. When loans are not performing in accordance with their contractual terms, the recovery of cash flows may be affected by other cash resources of the customer, or other credit risk enhancements not quantified for the tables above. The Group’s policy for determining impairment allowances, including the effect of collateral on these impairment allowances, is described on page 258. Loans and advances to banks The following table shows loans and advances to banks, including off-balance sheet loan commitments by level of collateral. Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by level of collateral (Audited) Europe US$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Not collateralised 36,043 24,622 40,694 7,290 9,050 12,838 130,537 Fully collateralised 25,496 2,294 5,667 – 811 3,691 37,959 Partially collateralised (A) 62 1,459 1,207 – – – 2,728 – collateral value on A 61 1,452 1,135 – – – 2,648 61,601 28,375 47,568 7,290 9,861 16,529 171,224 At 31 December 2011 Not collateralised 25,896 34,892 42,586 9,337 14,132 19,516 146,359 Fully collateralised 31,515 1,365 6,927 32 978 1,238 42,055 Partially collateralised (B) 146 50 445 – 784 114 1,539 – collateral value on B 104 50 207 – 702 88 1,151 57,557 36,307 49,958 9,369 15,894 20,868 189,953 The collateral used in the assessment of the above lending relates primarily to cash and marketable securities. Loans and advances to banks are typically unsecured. Certain products such as reverse repos and stock borrowing are effectively collateralised and have been included in the above as fully or partly collateralised. The fully collateralised loans and advances to banks for Europe in the table above consist primarily of reverse repo agreements and stock borrowing. Derivatives The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (‘ISDA’) Master Agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting derivatives activity. It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activity across a full range of over-the- counter (‘OTC’) products is conducted, and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or another pre-agreed termination event occurs. It is common, and our preferred practice, for the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement. Under a CSA, collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions. The majority of our CSAs are with financial institutional clients. We manage our counterparty exposure arising due to market risk on OTC derivative contracts through the use of collateral agreements with counterparties and netting agreements. We do not currently undertake active management of our 167 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) general OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit markets, although we may manage individual exposures in certain circumstances. A description of the derivative offset amount in the ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table is provided on page 145. Other credit risk exposures In addition to collateralised lending described above, other credit enhancements are employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from financial assets. These are described in more detail below. Securities issued by governments, banks and other financial institutions may benefit from additional credit enhancement, notably through government guarantees that reference these assets. Details of government guarantees are included in Notes 6, 10 and 12 on the Financial Statements. Corporate issued debt securities are primarily unsecured. Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions include ABSs and similar instruments, which are supported by underlying pools of financial assets. Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced through the purchase of CDS protection. Disclosure of the Group’s holdings of ABSs and associated CDS protection is provided on page 184. Trading assets include loans and advances held with trading intent, the majority of which consist of reverse repos and stock borrowing which, by their nature, are collateralised. Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to sell or repledge under these arrangements is described in Note 36 on the Financial Statements. Trading assets also include money market term placements, which are unsecured. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial guarantees and similar arrangements that we issue or enter into, and loan commitments that we are irrevocably committed to. Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we may have recourse to additional credit mitigation in the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults. Further information about these arrangements is provided in Note 40 on the Financial Statements. Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained (Audited) The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking possession of collateral held as security, or calling upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: Carrying amount at31 December 2012US$m 2011US$m Nature of assets Residential property 353 420 Commercial and industrial property 88 64 Other 3 17 444 501 The significant reduction in residential properties was due to the suspension of foreclosure activities at the end of 2011 and during the first half of 2012 (see page 151). We make repossessed properties available for sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness. If excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, they are made available to repay other secured lenders with lower priority or returned to the customer. We do not generally occupy repossessed properties for our business use. Impairment of loans and advances (Audited) A summary of our current policies and practices regarding impairment assessment is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 258. The tables below analyse by geographical region the impairment allowances recognised for impaired loans and advances that are either individually assessed or collectively assessed, and collective impairment allowances on loans and advances classified as not impaired. 168 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers by geographical region (Audited) Europe US$m Hong Kong US$m Rest of Asia- Pacific US$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m Total US$m At 31 December 2012 Gross loans and advances to customers Individually assessed impaired loans14 (A) 9,959 398 1,019 2,251 1,849 1,295 16,771 Collectively assessed15 (B) 458,802 173,688 137,846 27,629 144,523 54,476 996,964 Impaired loans14 1,121 79 128 197 18,482 1,893 21,900 Non-impaired loans16 457,681 173,609 137,718 27,432 126,041 52,583 975,064 Total (C) 468,761 174,086 138,865 29,880 146,372 55,771 1,013,735 Impairment allowances (C) 5,321 473 746 1,794 5,616 2,162 16,112 Individually assessed (A) 3,781 192 442 1,323 428 406 6,572 Collectively assessed (B) 1,540 281 304 471 5,188 1,756 9,540 Net loans and advances 463,440 173,613 138,119 28,086 140,756 53,609 997,623 % % % % % % % Allowances as a percentage of loans and advances: – individually assessed (A) 38.0 48.2 43.4 58.8 23.1 31.4 39.2 – collectively assessed (B) 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.7 3.6 3.2 1.0 – total (C) 1.1 0.3 0.5 6.0 3.8 3.9 1.6 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Gross loans and advances to customers Individually assessed impaired loans14 (E) 10,490 519 963 2,187 1,832 563 16,554 Collectively assessed15 (F) 429,088 157,727 123,687 25,402 148,096 57,386 941,386 Impaired loans14 1,261 85 106 238 20,864 2,476 25,030 Non-impaired loans16 427,827 157,642 123,581 25,164 127,232 54,910 916,356 Total (G) 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940 Impairment allowances (G) 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511 Individually assessed (E) 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324 6,537 Collectively assessed (F) 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687 10,974 Net loans and advances 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 940,429 % % % % % % % Allowances as a percentage of loans and advances: – individually assessed (E) 35.8 55.5 52.4 57.2 22.7 57.4 39.5 – collectively assessed (F) 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.8 4.6 2.9 1.2 – total (G) 1.2 0.4 0.6 6.2 4.8 3.5 1.8 For footnotes, see page 249. 169 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Individually assessed impairment allowances 1,387 (8 ) 97 205 258 200 2,139 New allowances 1,960 32 239 369 380 292 3,272 Release of allowances no longer required (516 ) (34 ) (117 ) (133 ) (85 ) (49 ) (934 ) Recoveries of amounts previously written off (57 ) (6 ) (25 ) (31 ) (37 ) (43 ) (199 ) Collectively assessed impairment allowances 487 92 243 50 3,204 1,945 6,021 New allowances net of allowance releases 839 117 368 94 3,296 2,254 6,968 Recoveries of amounts previously written off (352 ) (25 ) (125 ) (44 ) (92 ) (309 ) (947 ) Total charge for impairment losses 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 Customers 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 2011 Individually assessed impairment allowances 1,262 18 67 199 243 126 1,915 New allowances 1,670 79 207 328 398 222 2,904 Release of allowances no longer required (378 ) (41 ) (114 ) (80 ) (111 ) (74 ) (798 ) Recoveries of amounts previously written off (30 ) (20 ) (26 ) (49 ) (44 ) (22 ) (191 ) Collectively assessed impairment allowances 640 99 207 93 6,807 1,744 9,590 New allowances net of allowance releases 1,181 126 366 147 6,894 2,111 10,825 Recoveries of amounts previously written off (541 ) (27 ) (159 ) (54 ) (87 ) (367 ) (1,235 ) Total charge for impairment losses 1,902 117 274 292 7,050 1870 11,505 Banks (11 ) – – – (5 ) – (16 ) Customers 1,913 117 274 292 7,055 1,870 11,521 2012 compared with 2011 (Unaudited) The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. Loan impairment allowances were US$16.2bn, a decline of 9% compared with 2011, reflecting lower lending balances in our US CML portfolio which included the reclassification of impairment allowances on non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. Releases and recoveries of US$2.1bn were 3% lower, mainly in North America due to lower customer repayments in the corporate and commercial sector, as well as the non-recurrence of a number of releases and recoveries incurred in 2011 in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Impaired loans were 3% of total gross loans and advances at the end of 2012, compared with 4% at 31 December 2011. In Europe, new loan impairment allowances were US$2.8bn, broadly unchanged compared with 2011. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined by 28%, mainly in the UK personal lending book, as we focused our lending growth on higher quality assets and continued to pro-actively identify and monitor customers facing financial hardship. This resulted in lower delinquency rates across both the secured and unsecured lending portfolios. Individually assessed new loan impairment allowances increased by 21% across a range of sectors reflecting the challenging economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey. In addition, a rise in impairments in Turkey was due to strong balance sheet growth in customer loans and advances in RBWM, notably in credit cards and personal loans, driven by business expansion. Impaired loans of US$11.1bn were 9% lower than at 31 December 2011, mainly due to increased focus on higher quality loans, lower delinquency rates and the continued low interest rate environment. Releases and recoveries in Europe were US$925m, broadly unchanged on 2011. In Hong Kong, new individually assessed loan impairment allowances fell by 28% compared with 2011 due to lower specific impairment charges in CMB. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances also declined as delinquency rates continued to improve, reflecting stable loan growth and sound underlying economic conditions. Impaired loans declined by 22% from 31 December 2011, as a number of corporate loans in the international 170 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) trade sector were written off or upgraded following repayments, and delinquency rates reduced. Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were US$65m, 27% lower than at the end of 2011 when an allowance relating to a loan in GB&M that was no longer considered impaired was released. New loan impairment allowances in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased by 8% to US$607m. This reflected higher new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances, mainly from the growth in Singapore of RBWM’s credit card portfolio. New individually assessed loan impairment allowances also increased, as a result of the impairment of a corporate exposure in Australia and individual charges on a small number of corporate exposures in India. Impaired loans in the region increased by 4% to US$1.1bn in 2012 due to the downgrade of a number of customers in Australia and Taiwan, partly offset by the restructuring of a significant loan in Singapore following the renegotiation of terms, which is therefore regarded as no longer impaired. Releases and recoveries in the region decreased by 7%, mainly in India as the cards portfolio continued to run off, and in Thailand following the sale of the RBWM business. These were partly offset by an impairment allowance release in Singapore compared with a charge in 2011. In the Middle East and North Africa, new loan impairment allowances decreased by 2% to US$463m in 2012. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined, primarily in the UAE, due to the improvement in credit quality reflecting the repositioning of the book towards higher quality lending in previous years. New individually assessed loan impairment allowances rose due to significant loan impairment charges recorded for a small number of large exposures in GB&M. Impaired loans remained broadly unchanged compared with 31 December 2011. Releases and recoveries in the region increased by 14% to US$208m in 2012, mainly relating to a small number of exposures in UAE. In North America, new loan impairment allowances fell sharply, reducing by 50% to US$3.7bn. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined, largely in the CML portfolio due to the reclassification of impairment allowances on non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ as well as the continued run-off in the residential portfolios. This was partly offset by a portfolio risk factor adjustment of US$225m which was made to increase the collective loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage lending portfolios. The adjustment was made following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 2012 which concluded that the estimated average period of time from current status to write-off was ten months for real estate loans (previously a period of seven months was used). During 2013, this revised estimate will be incorporated into the statistical impairment allowance models. It was also partly offset by new loan impairment allowances by HSBC Bank Bermuda on a small number of exposures. Releases and recoveries in North America declined by 11% to US$214m. This reflected lower levels of impairments being booked due to improving market conditions within the corporate and commercial sector. Impaired loans decreased by 11% in 2012 to US$20.3bn, due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio which included the reclassification of certain non-real estate personal loan balances to held for sale. In Latin America, new loan impairment allowances increased by 23% to US$2.5bn. The increase in new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances was mainly in Brazil, driven by higher delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. Impaired loans were 9% higher than at the end of 2011, driven by past growth in the CMB portfolio in Brazil. Releases and recoveries in Latin America decreased by 2% from the end of 2011 to US$401m, mainly in Brazil. For an analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions by global business, see page 76. 171 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 2011 compared with 2010 (Unaudited) On a reported basis, loan impairment charges to the income statement of US$11.5bn in 2011 declined by 15% compared with 2010 and by 16% on a constant currency basis. During 2011, we revised our disclosure convention for impaired loans for regions with material levels of forbearance which resulted in an increase in the population of impaired loans. Impaired loan comparative data for 2010 has been restated to reflect the change in disclosure convention. On a reported basis our restated impaired loans were US$41.7bn, 11% lower than at 31 December 2010. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis. New loan impairment allowances were US$13.7bn, a decline of 12% compared with 2010, reflecting lower lending balances in our US consumer finance portfolios. Releases and recoveries of US$2.2bn were 17% higher, mainly in Europe and Latin America reflecting improvements in our collections operations. Impaired loans were 4% of total gross loans and advances at the end of 2011, in line with 31 December 2010. In Europe, new loan impairment allowances were US$2.9bn, 14% lower than 2010. Individually assessed new loan impairment allowances decreased, mainly in the UK, as the credit quality of our lending portfolio improved, partly offset by an increase in allowances in respect of a small number of CMB customers in Greece. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances also declined, mainly in the UK personal lending book, as a result of improved delinquency rates, reflecting improved quality in both the secured and unsecured portfolios, and a range of successful actions taken to mitigate credit risk within RBWM including a focus on monitoring and identifying customers facing financial difficulty at an earlier stage. In addition, lower new loan impairment allowances reflected a reduction in unsecured lending balances. Impaired loans of US$11.8bn were 5% higher than at 31 December 2010. Releases and recoveries in Europe were US$949m, an increase of 36% compared with the end of 2010 due to successful actions taken to mitigate credit risk as described above. In Hong Kong, new loan impairment allowances fell by 10% compared with 2010 driven by a reduction in new loan impairment allowances against specific exposures. This was partly offset by a rise in new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances following a more significant release of allowances in 2010, as well as strong growth in lending balances. Impaired loans declined by 9% from 31 December 2010, reflecting loans whose performance improved following the renegotiation of terms and are therefore regarded as no longer impaired. Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were US$88m, 4% lower than at the end of 2010. New loan impairment allowances in Rest of Asia-Pacific decreased by 22% to US$573m. The decline reflected lower new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances, mainly in India, where lending balances fell as certain higher risk unsecured portfolios were managed down. New individually assessed loan impairment allowances also decreased, mainly in Singapore, due to lower new loan impairment allowances raised against a single GB&M customer compared with 2010. Impaired loans in the region decreased by 16% from the end of 2010 to US$1.1bn at the end of 2011, mainly in India due to the repayment or write-off of previously impaired loans. Releases and recoveries in the region increased by 5%, mainly due to the increased release of individually assessed allowances, principally in Australia and India. In the Middle East and North Africa, new loan impairment allowances declined by 35% to US$475m in 2011. New individually assessed loan impairment allowances fell, as charges in 2011 were restricted to a small number of corporate exposures and significant charges recorded in 2010 following the restructuring of corporate exposures in the UAE did not recur. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances also declined, primarily in the UAE, due to lower delinquencies reflecting a repositioning of the loan book to reduce our exposure to unsecured lending and focus on higher quality customers. Impaired loans declined by 4% from 31 December 2010 due to improved delinquency in line with stricter credit criteria, as referred to above. Releases and recoveries in the region increased by 63% to US$183m in 2011 due to improved economic conditions. In North America, new loan impairment allowances declined markedly, reducing by 16% to US$7.3bn. New collectively assessed loan impairment allowances declined, mainly in the CML portfolio, reflecting continued run-off and, in our Card and Retail Services business, lower balances, 171a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) as well as improved delinquency rates as overall credit quality improved. This was partly offset by additional new loan impairment allowances related to the effects of the delays in foreclosure activity. Releases and recoveries in North America declined by 36% to US$242m. This reflected both the improvement in economic conditions in 2010, which enabled a high volume of customers who were in financial difficulty to make repayments, and the continued reductions in outstanding balances in 2011 as the CML portfolio continued to run off. Impaired loans decreased by 18% from the end of 2010 to US$22.8bn, due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio and the reclassification of balances relating to the pending sale of our Card and Retail Services business. This was partly offset by the effects of the delays in foreclosure processing which slowed the rate at which lending balances were transferred to foreclosed. In Latin America, new loan impairment allowances increased by 21% to US$2.3bn. The increase in new loan impairment allowances was primarily in Brazil reflecting strong lending growth in RBWM and CMB, as well as a rise in delinquency rates, notably in the second half of 2011. This was partly offset by lower new collectively assessed loan impairment allowances in Mexico, driven by the managed decline of the riskier elements of the credit cards portfolio. Impaired loans were 8% higher than at the end of 2010 driven by increased delinquency observed during the year. Releases and recoveries in Latin America increased by 36% from the end of 2010 to US$463m, largely reflecting an increase in the volume of accounts that are delinquent. For an analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions by global business, see page 76. 171b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Further analysis of impairment Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region (Unaudited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m Impairment allowances at 1 January 2012 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 Amounts written off (2,375 ) (219 ) (540 ) (305 ) (4,181 ) (2,192 ) (9,812 ) Personal (828 ) (128 ) (347 ) (126 ) (3,862 ) (1,614 ) (6,905 ) – first lien residential mortgages (28 ) – (7 ) (2 ) (1,952 ) (70 ) (2,059 ) – other personal1 (800 ) (128 ) (340 ) (124 ) (1,910 ) (1,544 ) (4,846 ) Corporate and commercial (1,428 ) (91 ) (193 ) (154 ) (234 ) (577 ) (2,677 ) – manufacturing and international trade and services (661 ) (91 ) (164 ) (137 ) (59 ) (498 ) (1,610 ) – commercial real estate and other property-related (377 ) – (8 ) (6 ) (97 ) (18 ) (506 ) – other commercial9 (390 ) – (21 ) (11 ) (78 ) (61 ) (561 ) Financial2 (119 ) – – (25 ) (85 ) (1 ) (230 ) Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 409 31 150 75 129 352 1,146 Personal 354 30 132 50 88 312 966 – first lien residential mortgages 34 4 2 5 46 49 140 – other personal1 320 26 130 45 42 263 826 Corporate and commercial 51 1 18 25 38 39 172 – manufacturing and international trade and services 16 1 5 2 7 28 59 – commercial real estate and other property-related 9 – 11 – 19 2 41 – other commercial9 26 – 2 23 12 9 72 Financial2 4 – – – 3 1 8 Charge to income statement 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 Personal 348 96 234 57 3,228 1,399 5,362 – first lien residential mortgages (56 ) (11 ) 14 7 1,986 (30 ) 1,910 – other personal1 404 107 220 50 1,242 1,429 3,452 Corporate and commercial 1,547 (14 ) 102 169 252 746 2,802 – manufacturing and international trade and services 670 (12 ) 32 80 62 625 1,457 – commercial real estate and other property-related 444 7 55 62 94 28 690 – other commercial9 433 (9 ) 15 27 96 93 655 Financial2 (21 ) 2 4 29 (18 ) – (4 ) Exchange and other movements18 161 (4 ) 14 55 (1,033 ) (154 ) (961 ) At 31 December 2012 5,361 473 746 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169 Impairment allowances against banks: – individually assessed 40 – – 17 – – 57 Impairment allowances against customers: – individually assessed 3,781 192 442 1,323 428 406 6,572 – collectively assessed17 1,540 281 304 471 5,188 1,756 9,540 At 31 December 2012 5,361 473 746 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169 172 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m Impairment allowances at 1 January 2011 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 Amounts written off (2,781 ) (210 ) (554 ) (187 ) (6,830 ) (1,918 ) (12,480 ) Personal (1,685 ) (116 ) (391 ) (172 ) (6,591 ) (1,476 ) (10,431 ) – first lien residential mortgages (25 ) – (6 ) (2 ) (2,545 ) (84 ) (2,662 ) – other personal1 (1,660 ) (116 ) (385 ) (170 ) (4,046 ) (1,392 ) (7,769 ) Corporate and commercial (1,066 ) (94 ) (161 ) (15 ) (233 ) (440 ) (2,009 ) – manufacturing and international trade and services (554 ) (64 ) (120 ) (4 ) (100 ) (295 ) (1,137 ) – commercial real estate and other property-related (265 ) (6 ) (13 ) (10 ) (83 ) (15 ) (392 ) – other commercial9 (247 ) (24 ) (28 ) (1 ) (50 ) (130 ) (480 ) Financial2 (30 ) – (2 ) – (6 ) (2 ) (40 ) Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 572 47 185 102 132 388 1,426 Personal 525 31 168 53 101 297 1,175 – first lien residential mortgages 21 4 3 – 39 19 86 – other personal1 504 27 165 53 62 278 1,089 Corporate and commercial 44 16 12 49 30 91 242 – manufacturing and international trade and services 19 16 8 2 8 82 135 – commercial real estate and other property-related 7 – 1 – 8 4 20 – other commercial9 18 – 3 47 14 5 87 Financial2 3 – 5 – 1 – 9 Charge to income statement 1,902 117 274 292 7,050 1,870 11,505 Personal 610 77 215 124 6,887 1,405 9,318 – first lien residential mortgages 98 (10 ) 5 42 3,899 69 4,103 – other personal1 512 87 210 82 2,988 1,336 5,215 Corporate and commercial 1,277 37 55 146 122 477 2,114 – manufacturing and international trade and services 416 57 35 25 42 326 901 – commercial real estate and other property-related 498 – 9 150 48 59 764 – other commercial9 363 (20 ) 11 (29 ) 32 92 449 Financial2 15 3 4 22 41 (12 ) 73 Exchange and other movements18 (141 ) (2 ) (82 ) (145 ) (2,347 ) (339 ) (3,056 ) At 31 December 2011 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 Impairment allowances against banks: – individually assessed 50 – – 17 58 – 125 Impairment allowances against customers: – individually assessed 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324 6,537 – collectively assessed17 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687 10,974 At 31 December 2011 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 For footnotes, see page 249. 173 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector (Unaudited) 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m 2009US$m 2008US$m Impairment allowances at 1 January 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 Amounts written off (9,812 ) (12,480 ) (19,300 ) (24,840 ) (17,955 ) Personal (6,905 ) (10,431 ) (16,458 ) (22,703 ) (16,625 ) – first lien residential mortgages (2,059 ) (2,662 ) (4,163 ) (4,704 ) (2,110 ) – other personal1 (4,846 ) (7,769 ) (12,295 ) (17,999 ) (14,515 ) Corporate and commercial (2,677 ) (2,009 ) (2,789 ) (1,984 ) (1,294 ) – manufacturing and international trade and services (1,610 ) (1,137 ) (1,050 ) (1,093 ) (789 ) – commercial real estate and other property-related (506 ) (392 ) (1,280 ) (327 ) (115 ) – other commercial9 (561 ) (480 ) (459 ) (564 ) (390 ) Financial2 (230 ) (40 ) (53 ) (153 ) (36 ) Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 1,146 1,426 1,020 890 834 Personal 966 1,175 846 712 686 – first lien residential mortgages 140 86 93 61 19 – other personal1 826 1,089 753 651 667 Corporate and commercial 172 242 156 170 142 – manufacturing and international trade and services 59 135 92 123 76 – commercial real estate and other property-related 41 20 21 9 6 – other commercial9 72 87 43 38 60 Financial2 8 9 18 8 6 Charge to income statement 8,160 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 Personal 5,362 9,318 11,187 19,781 20,950 – first lien residential mortgages 1,910 4,103 3,461 4,185 5,000 – other personal1 3,452 5,215 7,726 15,596 15,950 Corporate and commercial 2,802 2,114 2,198 4,711 2,879 – manufacturing and international trade and services 1,457 901 909 2,392 1,573 – commercial real estate and other property-related 690 764 660 1,492 755 – other commercial9 655 449 629 827 551 Financial2 (4 ) 73 163 450 302 Exchange and other movements18 (961 ) (3,056 ) (676 ) 685 (2,250 ) At 31 December 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 Impairment allowances against banks: – individually assessed 57 125 158 107 63 Impairment allowances against customers: – individually assessed 6,572 6,537 6,457 6,494 3,284 – collectively assessed 9,540 10,974 13,626 19,048 20,625 At 31 December 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 For footnotes, see page 249. 174 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks (Audited) Banks individually assessedUS$m Customers IndividuallyassessedUS$m CollectivelyassessedUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 At 1 January 125 6,537 10,974 17,636 Amounts written off (70 ) (2,361 ) (7,381 ) (9,812 ) Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off – 199 947 1,146 Charge to income statement – 2,139 6,021 8,160 Exchange and other movements18 2 58 (1,021 ) (961 ) At 31 December 57 6,572 9,540 16,169 Impairment allowances on loans; and advances to customers 6,572 9,540 16,112 – personal 685 7,527 8,212 – corporate and commercial 5,407 1,939 7,346 – financial 480 74 554 % % % % As a percentage of loans and advances19,20 0.05 0.67 0.98 1.48 US$m US$m US$m US$m 2011 At 1 January 158 6,457 13,626 20,241 Amounts written off (16 ) (1,633 ) (10,831 ) (12,480 ) Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off – 191 1,235 1,426 Charge to income statement (16 ) 1,931 9,590 11,505 Exchange and other movements18 (1 ) (409 ) (2,646 ) (3,056 ) At 31 December 125 6,537 10,974 17,636 Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers 6,537 10,974 17,511 – personal 694 9,066 9,760 – corporate and commercial 5,231 1,820 7,051 – financial 612 88 700 % % % % As a percentage of loans and advances19,20 0.09 0.71 1.20 1.67 For footnotes, see page 249. Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector (Unaudited) 2012 2011 Individuallyassessed US$m Collectivelyassessed US$m Total US$m Individuallyassessed US$m Collectivelyassessed US$m Total US$m Banks – – – (16 ) – (16 ) Personal 96 5,266 5,362 141 9,177 9,318 First lien residential mortgages 40 1,870 1,910 104 3,999 4,103 Other personal1 56 3,396 3,452 37 5,178 5,215 Corporate and commercial 2,029 773 2,802 1,703 411 2,114 Manufacturing and international trade and services 910 547 1,457 572 329 901 Commercial real estate and other property-related 604 86 690 768 (4 ) 764 Other commercial9 515 140 655 363 86 449 Financial 14 (18 ) (4 ) 87 2 89 Total charge to income statement 2,139 6,021 8,160 1,915 9,590 11,505 For footnotes, see page 249. 175 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Net loan impairment charge to the income statement (Unaudited) 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2009 US$m 2008 US$m Individually assessed impairment allowances 2,139 1,915 2,625 4,458 2,064 New allowances 3,272 2,904 3,617 5,173 2,742 Release of allowances no longer required (934 ) (798 ) (847 ) (581 ) (565 ) Recoveries of amounts previously written off (199 ) (191 ) (145 ) (134 ) (113 ) Collectively assessed impairment allowances 6,021 9,590 10,923 20,484 22,067 New allowances net of allowance releases 6,968 10,825 11,798 21,240 22,788 Recoveries of amounts previously written off (947 ) (1,235 ) (875 ) (756 ) (721 ) Total charge for impairment losses 8,160 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 Banks – (16 ) 12 70 54 Customers 8,160 11,521 13,536 24,872 24,077 At 31 December Impaired loans 38,776 41,739 47,064 30,845 25,422 Impairment allowances 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region (Unaudited) Europe % HongKong % Rest ofAsia- Pacific % MENA % NorthAmerica % LatinAmerica % Total % 2012 New allowances net of allowance releases 0.58 0.07 0.37 1.16 2.31 4.36 1.00 Recoveries (0.10 ) (0.02 ) (0.11 ) (0.26 ) (0.08 ) (0.62 ) (0.12 ) Total charge for impairment losses 0.48 0.05 0.26 0.90 2.23 3.74 0.88 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.50 0.11 0.30 0.81 2.57 3.21 0.93 2011 New allowances net of allowance releases 0.59 0.11 0.38 1.46 4.01 3.54 1.34 Recoveries (0.14 ) (0.03 ) (0.15 ) (0.38 ) (0.07 ) (0.61 ) (0.15 ) Total charge for impairment losses 0.45 0.08 0.23 1.08 3.94 2.93 1.19 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.52 0.11 0.31 0.32 3.74 2.39 1.14 176 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers (Unaudited) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 % % % % % New allowances net of allowance releases 1.00 1.34 1.65 2.92 2.54 Recoveries (0.12 ) (0.15 ) (0.12 ) (0.10 ) (0.09 ) Total charge for impairment losses 0.88 1.19 1.53 2.82 2.45 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.93 1.14 2.08 2.71 1.75 Loans and advances to customers are excluded from average balances when reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’. Including these loans and advances to customers, the total new allowances net of allowance releases would be 1.00%, recoveries 0.12%, and amounts written off net of recoveries 0.93%. Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes by geographical region (Unaudited) 31 Dec 11 as reported Currency translation adjustment 21 31 Dec 11at 31 Dec 12exchangerates Movementon aconstantcurrencybasis 31 Dec 12 as reported Reported change 22 Constant currency change 22 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Impaired loans Europe 11,819 451 12,270 (1,125 ) 11,145 (6 ) (9 ) Hong Kong 608 1 609 (132 ) 477 (22 ) (22 ) Rest of Asia-Pacific 1,070 27 1,097 50 1,147 7 5 Middle East and North Africa 2,445 (6 ) 2,439 35 2,474 1 1 North America 22,758 17 22,775 (2,430 ) 20,345 (11 ) (11 ) Latin America 3,039 (108 ) 2,931 257 3,188 5 9 41,739 382 42,121 (3,345 ) 38,776 (7 ) (8 ) Impairment allowances Europe 5,292 203 5,495 (134 ) 5,361 1 (2 ) Hong Kong 581 2 583 (110 ) 473 (19 ) (19 ) Rest of Asia-Pacific 782 17 799 (53 ) 746 (5 ) (7 ) Middle East and North Africa 1,731 (5 ) 1,726 85 1,811 5 5 North America 7,239 14 7,253 (1,637 ) 5,616 (22 ) (23 ) Latin America 2,011 (114 ) 1,897 265 2,162 8 13 17,636 117 17,753 (1,584 ) 16,169 (8 ) (9 ) For footnotes, see page 249. 177 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impairment charge to the income statement (Unaudited) 31 Dec 11 as reported Currency translation adjustment 21 31 Dec 11at 31 Dec 12exchangerates Movementon aconstantcurrencybasis 31 Dec 12 as reported Reported change 22 Constant currency change 22 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Europe Charge for impairment losses 1,902 (47 ) 1,855 19 1,874 (1 ) 1 New allowances 3,033 (82 ) 2,951 92 3,043 0 3 Releases (560 ) 29 (531 ) (229 ) (760 ) 36 43 Recoveries (571 ) 6 (565 ) 156 (409 ) (28 ) (28 ) Hong Kong Charge for impairment losses 117 – 117 (33 ) 84 (28 ) (28 ) New allowances 268 – 268 (44 ) 224 (16 ) (16 ) Releases (104 ) – (104 ) (5 ) (109 ) 5 5 Recoveries (47 ) – (47 ) 16 (31 ) (34 ) (34 ) Rest of Asia-Pacific Charge for impairment losses 274 (1 ) 273 67 340 24 25 New allowances 681 (17 ) 664 13 677 (1 ) 2 Releases (222 ) 10 (212 ) 25 (187 ) (16 ) (12 ) Recoveries (185 ) 6 (179 ) 29 (150 ) (19 ) (16 ) MENA Charge for impairment losses 292 – 292 (37 ) 255 (13 ) (13 ) New allowances 630 – 630 (50 ) 580 (8 ) (8 ) Releases (235 ) – (235 ) (15 ) (250 ) 6 6 Recoveries (103 ) – (103 ) 28 (75 ) (27 ) (27 ) North America Charge for impairment losses 7,050 – 7,050 (3,588 ) 3,462 (51 ) (51 ) New allowances 7,566 – 7,566 (3,677 ) 3,889 (49 ) (49 ) Releases (385 ) – (385 ) 87 (298 ) (23 ) (23 ) Recoveries (131 ) – (131 ) 2 (129 ) (2 ) (2 ) Latin America Charge for impairment losses 1,870 (217 ) 1,653 492 2,145 15 30 New allowances 2,421 (239 ) 2,182 399 2,581 7 18 Releases (162 ) (24 ) (186 ) 102 (84 ) (48 ) (55 ) Recoveries (389 ) 46 (343 ) (9 ) (352 ) (10 ) 3 Total Charge for impairment losses 11,505 (265 ) 11,240 (3,080 ) 8,160 (29 ) (27 ) New allowances 14,599 (338 ) 14,261 (3,267 ) 10,994 (25 ) (23 ) Releases (1,668 ) 15 (1,653 ) (35 ) (1,688 ) 1 2 Recoveries (1,426 ) 58 (1,368 ) 222 (1,146 ) (20 ) (16 ) Concentration of exposure (Unaudited) Concentrations of credit risk are described in the Appendix to Risk on page 259. An analysis of credit quality is provided on page 154. The diversification of our lending portfolio across the regions, together with our broad range of global businesses and products, ensured that we were not overly dependent on a few countries or markets to generate income and growth in 2012. Our geographical diversification also supported our strategies for growth in faster-growing markets and those with international connectivity. Trading assets (Unaudited) 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Trading securities23 213 186 Loans and advances to banks 78 76 Loans and advances to customers 118 69 409 331 For footnote, see page 249. The largest concentration of securities held-for-trading within trading assets was in government and government agency debt securities. We had significant exposures to US Treasury and government agency securities (US$28bn) and 178 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) UK (US$12bn) and Hong Kong (US$6bn) government securities. For an analysis of securities held for trading, see Note 14 on the Financial Statements. Financial investments Our holdings of available-for-sale government and government agency debt securities, corporate debt securities, ABSs and other securities were spread across a wide range of issuers and geographical regions, with 14% invested in securities issued by banks and other financial institutions. We also hold assets backing insurance and investment contracts. For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 20 on the Financial Statements. Derivatives Derivative assets were US$357bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$346bn), of which the largest concentrations were interest rate and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange derivatives. Our exposure to derivatives increased, mainly due to a rise in the fair value of interest rate contracts following the downward movements in yield curves in major currencies, largely in Europe. However, this was partly offset by a rise in netting from an increase in trading through clearing houses coupled with the rise in fair values. For an analysis of derivatives, see Note 19 on the Financial Statements. Loans and advances Gross loans and advances to customers (excluding the financial sector) of US$932bn increased by US$61bn or 7% at 31 December 2012 compared with 2011, or 5% on a constant currency basis. The following tables analyse loans by industry sector and by the location of the principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch. Gross loans and advances by industry sector (Unaudited) 2012 Currencyeffect Move-ment 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Personal 415,093 7,741 13,727 393,625 425,320 434,206 440,227 First lien residential mortgages24 301,862 6,776 16,123 278,963 268,681 260,669 243,337 Other personal1 113,231 965 (2,396 ) 114,662 156,639 173,537 196,890 Corporate and commercial 513,493 8,376 32,301 472,816 445,512 383,090 407,474 Manufacturing 112,149 1,392 14,703 96,054 91,121 80,487 81,103 International trade and services 169,389 2,727 13,953 152,709 146,573 115,641 128,737 Commercial real estate 76,760 1,544 1,275 73,941 71,880 69,389 70,969 Other property-related 40,532 406 587 39,539 34,838 30,520 30,739 Government 10,785 184 (478 ) 11,079 8,594 6,689 6,544 Other commercial9 103,878 2,123 2,261 99,494 92,506 80,364 89,382 Financial 81,258 1,963 (6,924 ) 86,219 101,725 96,650 101,085 Non-bank financial institutions 79,817 1,966 (7,424 ) 85,275 100,163 95,237 99,536 Settlement accounts 1,441 (3 ) 500 944 1,562 1,413 1,549 Asset-backed securities reclassified 3,891 208 (1,597 ) 5,280 5,892 7,827 7,991 Total gross loans and advances to customers 1,013,735 18,288 37,507 957,940 978,449 921,773 956,777 Gross loans and advances to banks 152,603 1,439 (29,948 ) 181,112 208,429 179,888 153,829 Total gross loans and advances (A) 1,166,338 19,727 7,559 1,139,052 1,186,878 1,101,661 1,110,606 Impaired loans and advances 38,671 379 (3,292 ) 41,584 46,871 30,606 25,352 – as a percentage of A 3.3% 4.3% 4.8% 3.3% 2.6% Impairment allowances on loans and advances 16,112 114 (1,513 ) 17,511 20,083 25,542 23,909 – as a percentage of A 1.4% 1.8% 2.1% 2.8% 2.5% 179 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Gross loans and advances by industry sector (continued) Year ended 31 December 2012 Currencyeffect Move-ment 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Charge for impairment losses 8,160 1,558 (4,903 ) 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 New allowances net of allowance releases 9,306 1,500 (5,125 ) 12,931 14,568 25,832 24,965 Recoveries (1,146 ) 58 222 (1,426 ) (1,020 ) (890 ) (834 ) For footnotes, see page 249. The following commentary is on a constant currency basis (see page 179): Personal lending was 41% of gross lending to customers at 31 December 2012. Personal lending balances of US$415bn were 3% higher than at 31 December 2011 for reasons explained under ‘Personal lending’ (see page 24-25). First lien residential mortgage lending continued to represent the Group’s largest concentration in a single exposure type, the most significant balances being in the UK (42%), Hong Kong (17%) and the US (16%). Corporate and commercial lending was 51% of gross lending to customers at 31 December 2012, representing our largest lending category. International trade and services was the biggest portion of the corporate and commercial lending category, which increased by 9% compared with 31 December 2011, mainly in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific as we focused on corporate and commercial customers that trade internationally as well as in the UK, despite muted demand for credit. The most significant concentrations of international trade and services lending were in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Our concentration in respect of the manufacturing sector increased, mainly driven by higher lending balances in Europe, due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances and corresponding customer accounts which did not meet netting criteria under accounting rules. Commercial real estate lending represented 8% of total gross lending to customers. Lending increased marginally, as the demand for funds in property investment and development remained strong in Hong Kong. The main concentrations of commercial real estate lending were in the UK and Hong Kong. Lending to non-bank financial institutions was US$81bn, a decrease of 8% compared with 31 December 2011 due to a decline in reverse repo balances, mainly in Europe. Our exposure was spread across a range of institutions, with the most significant concentration in the UK, France and the US. Loans and advances to banks were widely distributed across many countries and decreased by 16% in 2012 as reverse repo balances declined, reflecting redeployment of liquidity to central banks, mainly in Europe. The tables that follow provide information on loans and advances by geographical region and by country. The commentary on these loans and advances can be found in the ‘Personal lending’ and ‘Wholesale lending’ sections on pages 147 to 152. 180 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region (Audited) Gross loans and advances to customers Europe Hong Kong Rest ofAsia- Pacific MENA NorthAmerica LatinAmerica Total As a %of total gross US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m loans At 31 December 2012 Personal 186,274 70,341 49,305 6,232 84,354 18,587 415,093 41.0 First lien residential mortgages24 135,172 52,296 36,906 2,144 70,133 5,211 301,862 29.8 Other personal1 51,102 18,045 12,399 4,088 14,221 13,376 113,231 11.2 Corporate and commercial 223,061 99,199 85,305 22,452 47,886 35,590 513,493 50.6 Manufacturing 56,690 10,354 19,213 3,373 9,731 12,788 112,149 11.1 International trade and services 70,954 33,832 32,317 9,115 13,419 9,752 169,389 16.6 Commercial real estate 33,279 23,384 9,286 865 6,572 3,374 76,760 7.6 Other property-related 7,402 16,399 6,641 2,103 7,607 380 40,532 4.0 Government 2,393 2,838 1,136 1,662 774 1,982 10,785 1.1 Other commercial9 52,343 12,392 16,712 5,334 9,783 7,314 103,878 10.2 Financial 55,732 4,546 4,255 1,196 13,935 1,594 81,258 8.0 Non-bank financial institutions 55,262 4,070 3,843 1,194 13,935 1,513 79,817 7.9 Settlement accounts 470 476 412 2 – 81 1,441 0.1 Asset-backed securities reclassified 3,694 – – – 197 – 3,891 0.4 Total gross loans and advances to customers (A) 468,761 174,086 138,865 29,880 146,372 55,771 1,013,735 100.0 Percentage of A by geographical region 46.3% 17.2% 13.7% 2.9% 14.4% 5.5% 100.0% Impaired loans 11,080 477 1,147 2,448 20,331 3,188 38,671 – as a percentage of A 2.4% 0.3% 0.8% 8.2% 13.9% 5.7% 3.8% Total impairment allowances 5,321 473 746 1,794 5,616 2,162 16,112 – as a percentage of A 1.1% 0.3% 0.5% 6.0% 3.8% 3.9% 1.6% At 31 December 2011 Personal 166,147 63,181 43,580 5,269 95,336 20,112 393,625 41.1 First lien residential mortgages24 119,902 46,817 32,136 1,837 73,278 4,993 278,963 29.1 Other personal1 46,245 16,364 11,444 3,432 22,058 15,119 114,662 12.0 Corporate and commercial 204,984 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,271 35,930 472,816 49.3 Manufacturing 45,632 9,004 16,909 3,517 7,888 13,104 96,054 10.0 International trade and services 64,604 29,066 29,605 8,664 10,710 10,060 152,709 15.9 Commercial real estate 32,099 20,828 9,537 1,002 7,069 3,406 73,941 7.7 Other property-related 7,595 17,367 6,396 1,770 5,729 682 39,539 4.1 Government 3,143 2,918 962 1,563 656 1,837 11,079 1.2 Other commercial9 51,911 12,409 14,478 4,636 9,219 6,841 99,494 10.4 Financial 63,671 3,473 3,183 1,168 12,817 1,907 86,219 9.0 Non-bank financial institutions 63,313 3,192 2,937 1,162 12,817 1,854 85,275 8.9 Settlement accounts 358 281 246 6 – 53 944 0.1 Asset-backed securities reclassified 4,776 – – – 504 – 5,280 0.6 Total gross loans and advances to customers (B) 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940 100.0 Percentage of B by geographical region 45.9% 16.5% 13.0% 2.9% 15.7% 6.0% 100.0% Impaired loans 11,751 604 1,069 2,425 22,696 3,039 41,584 – as a percentage of B 2.7% 0.4% 0.9% 8.8% 15.1% 5.2% 4.3% Total impairment allowances 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511 – as a percentage of B 1.2% 0.4% 0.6% 6.2% 4.8% 3.5% 1.8% For footnotes, see page 249. 181 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Loans and advances to banks by geographical region (Unaudited) Europe Hong Kong Rest ofAsia- Pacific MENA NorthAmerica LatinAmerica Loans andadvancesto banks Impair- ment allowances 25 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 45,320 23,500 44,592 9,198 13,465 16,528 152,603 (57 ) At 31 December 2011 54,406 35,159 47,309 8,571 14,831 20,836 181,112 (125 ) At 31 December 2010 78,239 33,585 40,437 9,335 19,479 27,354 208,429 (158 ) At 31 December 2009 65,614 36,197 35,648 8,435 15,386 18,608 179,888 (107 ) At 31 December 2008 62,012 29,646 28,665 7,476 11,458 14,572 153,829 (63 ) For footnote, see page 249. Gross loans and advances to customers by country (Unaudited) First lienresidentialmortgagesUS$m OtherpersonalUS$m Property-relatedUS$m Commercial,internationaltrade and otherUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Europe 135,172 51,102 40,681 241,806 468,761 UK 127,024 23,446 30,342 179,799 360,611 France 2,643 10,960 8,465 42,891 64,959 Germany 9 284 126 5,212 5,631 Malta 1,821 563 454 1,631 4,469 Switzerland 298 9,403 66 191 9,958 Turkey 1,062 4,084 317 3,356 8,819 Other 2,315 2,362 911 8,726 14,314 Hong Kong 52,296 18,045 39,783 63,962 174,086 Rest of Asia-Pacific 36,906 12,399 15,927 73,633 138,865 Australia 10,037 1,490 2,311 7,208 21,046 India 1,000 394 521 5,389 7,304 Indonesia 83 508 95 5,349 6,035 Mainland China 3,539 302 5,078 19,083 28,002 Malaysia 5,025 2,175 1,813 5,880 14,893 Singapore 10,123 4,812 3,938 9,854 28,727 Taiwan 3,323 597 120 5,180 9,220 Vietnam 50 252 60 1,710 2,072 Other 3,726 1,869 1,991 13,980 21,566 Middle East and North Africa(excluding Saudi Arabia) 2,144 4,088 2,968 20,680 29,880 Egypt 2 479 124 2,600 3,205 Qatar 11 385 484 1,082 1,962 UAE 1,743 1,822 1,533 12,264 17,362 Other 388 1,402 827 4,734 7,351 North America 70,133 14,221 14,179 47,839 146,372 US 49,417 7,382 9,449 29,315 95,563 Canada 19,040 6,444 4,136 17,369 46,989 Bermuda 1,676 395 594 1,155 3,820 Latin America 5,211 13,376 3,754 33,430 55,771 Argentina 28 1,532 85 2,465 4,110 Brazil 1,745 8,042 1,287 18,022 29,096 Mexico 1,989 2,756 1,280 9,447 15,472 Panama 1,402 1,023 1,049 2,405 5,879 Other 47 23 53 1,091 1,214 301,862 113,231 117,292 481,350 1,013,735 182 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) First lienresidentialmortgagesUS$m OtherpersonalUS$m Property-relatedUS$m Commercial,internationaltrade and otherUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2011 Europe 119,902 46,245 39,694 233,737 439,578 UK 111,224 22,218 29,191 160,236 322,869 France 3,353 9,305 8,160 49,572 70,390 Germany 10 343 112 4,518 4,983 Malta 1,708 567 520 1,591 4,386 Switzerland 1,803 10,684 156 1,918 14,561 Turkey 767 2,797 255 3,652 7,471 Other 1,037 331 1,300 12,250 14,918 Hong Kong 46,817 16,364 38,195 56,870 158,246 Rest of Asia-Pacific 32,136 11,444 15,933 65,137 124,650 Australia 9,251 1,327 2,357 6,073 19,008 India 830 461 809 3,914 6,014 Indonesia 81 463 97 4,577 5,218 Mainland China 2,769 317 5,078 15,665 23,829 Malaysia 4,329 2,166 1,351 5,898 13,744 Singapore 7,919 4,108 3,690 9,433 25,150 Taiwan 3,062 550 139 4,555 8,306 Vietnam 42 184 42 1,397 1,665 Other 3,853 1,868 2,370 13,625 21,716 Middle East and North Africa(excluding Saudi Arabia) 1,837 3,432 2,772 19,548 27,589 Egypt 2 441 100 2,775 3,318 Qatar 9 445 354 1,098 1,906 UAE 1,520 1,882 1,464 12,070 16,936 Other 306 664 854 3,605 5,429 North America 73,278 22,058 12,798 41,794 149,928 US 52,484 14,087 7,850 27,307 101,728 Canada 19,045 7,518 4,391 13,600 44,554 Bermuda 1,749 453 557 887 3,646 Latin America 4,993 15,119 4,088 33,749 57,949 Argentina 32 1,379 114 2,331 3,856 Brazil 1,657 9,802 1,660 18,638 31,757 Mexico 1,847 2,261 1,284 8,210 13,602 Panama 1,240 1,014 923 2,537 5,714 Other 217 663 107 2,033 3,020 278,963 114,662 113,480 450,835 957,940 183 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Country distribution of outstandings and cross-border exposures (Unaudited) We control the risk associated with cross-border lending through a centralised structure of internal country limits. Exposures to individual countries and cross-border exposure in the aggregate are kept under continual review. The following table summarises the aggregate of our in-country foreign currency and cross-border outstandings by type of borrower to countries which individually represent in excess of 0.75% of our total assets. The classification is based on the country of residence of the borrower but also recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of third-party guarantees, eligible collateral held and residence of the head office when the borrower is a branch. In accordance with the Bank of England Country Exposure Report (‘Form CE’) guidelines, outstandings comprise loans and advances (excluding settlement accounts), amounts receivable under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, certificates of deposit (‘CD’s) and debt and equity securities (net of short positions), and exclude accrued interest and intra-HSBC exposures. In-country foreign currency and cross-border amounts outstanding (Unaudited) Banks Governmentand officialinstitutions Other Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2012 US 5.9 37.9 14.7 58.5 UK 18.0 2.8 34.7 55.5 Mainland China 23.4 3.3 16.0 42.7 Germany 11.6 15.9 10.2 37.7 France 12.8 11.3 13.2 37.3 Hong Kong 8.3 1.0 21.3 30.6 Japan76 6.7 16.8 1.6 25.1 Ireland76 0.8 0.1 19.5 20.4 At 31 December 2011 UK 9.5 4.5 53.7 67.7 US 8.1 40.8 16.7 65.6 Mainland China 25.4 7.6 13.3 46.3 Japan 8.6 25.8 0.9 35.3 France 11.0 11.3 10.0 32.3 Hong Kong 7.2 1.2 17.7 26.1 Germany 9.7 7.2 5.0 21.9 Ireland 1.7 0.1 17.5 19.3 At 31 December 2010 UK 27.6 6.3 51.6 85.5 US 13.6 37.6 17.6 68.8 France 23.8 11.1 11.2 46.1 Hong Kong 15.4 1.6 17.2 34.2 Mainland China 21.5 1.2 9.1 31.8 Japan 14.0 16.2 1.3 31.5 Germany 17.8 4.2 9.4 31.4 Ireland 2.1 0.1 8.2 10.4 For footnote, see page 249. 183a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) HSBC Holdings (Audited) Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’). The major risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk and market risk (in the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk), of which the most significant is credit risk. Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of their business. These risks are reviewed and managed within regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our Global Risk function, which provides high-level centralised oversight and management of our credit risks worldwide. HSBC Holdings’ maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2012 is shown below. Its financial assets principally represent claims on Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America. All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC undertakings which are banking counterparties (2011: 100%) and for which HSBC Holdings has in place master netting arrangements. From 2012, the credit risk exposure has been managed on a net basis and the remaining net exposure specifically collateralised in the form of cash. HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Maximumexposure Offset Exposureto creditrisk (net) Maximumexposure Offset Exposure tocredit risk(net) US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 353 – 353 316 – 316 Derivatives 3,768 (3,768 ) – 3,568 – 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 41,675 – 41,675 28,048 – 28,048 Financial investments 1,208 – 1,208 1,078 – 1,078 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 49,402 – 49,402 49,402 – 49,402 Loan and other credit-related commitments 1,200 – 1,200 1,810 – 1,810 97,606 (3,768 ) 93,838 84,222 – 84,222 The credit quality of the loans and advances to HSBC undertakings is assessed as ‘strong’ or ‘good’, with 100% of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired (2011: 100%). The financial investments held by HSBC Holdings were rated by Standard and Poor’s (‘S&P’) at A– (2011: within the range of A to A–). Securitisation exposures and other structured products (Audited) This section contains information about our exposure to the following: • asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s), including mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) and related collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s); • direct lending at fair value through profit or loss; • monoline insurance companies (‘monolines’); • leveraged finance transactions; and • representations and warranties related to mortgage sales and securitisation activities. Within the above is included information on the GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of Solitaire, the securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s), the ABSs trading portfolios and derivative transactions with monolines. Further information in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is provided in Note 42 on the Financial Statements. Accounting policies Our accounting policies for the classification and measurement of financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, as described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and estimates in respect of the valuation of financial instruments is described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements. 184 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Business model (Unaudited) Balance Sheet Management (see page 222) holds ABSs primarily issued by government agency and sponsored enterprises as part of our investment portfolios. Our investment portfolios include SICs and money market funds. We also originate leveraged finance loans for the purpose of syndicating or selling them down to generate trading profit or holding them to earn interest margin over their lives. Exposure in 2012 (Audited) 2012 saw an improvement in the US housing market with home prices rising during the year. This improvement coincided with decreasing concerns around sovereign credit, particularly in the second half of the year, and gave rise to price appreciation across this range of ABS asset classes. Unrealised losses in our available-for-sale portfolios reduced in the year from US$5.1bn to US$2.2bn, mainly as a result of price appreciation. Within the following table are assets held in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying value of US$31.6bn (2011: US$35.4bn). A summary of the nature of HSBC’s exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 259. Overall exposure of HSBC (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amount 26 Including sub-primeand Alt-A Carrying amount 26 Includingsub-primeand Alt-A US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Asset-backed securities 59.0 7.0 65.6 6.9 – fair value through profit or loss 3.4 0.2 3.0 0.2 – available for sale27 49.6 6.1 54.6 5.7 – held to maturity27 1.6 0.1 2.0 0.2 – loans and receivables 4.4 0.6 6.0 0.8 Direct lending at fair value through profit or loss 1.0 0.6 1.2 0.8 Total asset-backed securities and direct lending at fair value through profit or loss 60.0 7.6 66.8 7.7 Less securities subject to risk mitigation from credit derivatives with monolines and other financial institutions (1.9 ) (0.2 ) (1.9 ) (0.2 ) 58.1 7.4 64.9 7.5 Leveraged finance loans 2.8 – 3.6 – – fair value through profit or loss – – 0.2 – – loans and receivables 2.8 – 3.4 – 60.9 7.4 68.5 7.5 Exposure including securities subject to risk mitigation from credit derivatives with monolines and other financial institutions 62.8 7.6 70.4 7.7 For footnotes, see page 249. ABSs classified as available for sale Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs are in GB&M through special purpose entities (‘SPE’s), which were established from the outset with the benefit of external investor first loss protection support, together with positions held directly and by Solitaire, where we provide first loss protection of US$1.2bn through credit enhancement and a liquidity facility. 185 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Movement in the available-for-sale reserve (Audited) 2012 2011 Directly held/ Solitaire 28 SPEs Total Directly held/ Solitaire 28 SPEs Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Available-for-sale reserve at 1 January (3,085 ) (2,061 ) (5,146 ) (4,102 ) (2,306 ) (6,408 ) Increase/(decrease) in fair value of securities 1,195 914 2,109 622 (137 ) 485 Effect of impairments29 339 394 733 383 339 722 Repayment of capital 164 174 338 162 183 345 Other movements (86 ) (141 ) (227 ) (150 ) (140 ) (290 ) Available-for-sale reserve at 31 December (1,473 ) (720 ) (2,193 ) (3,085 ) (2,061 ) (5,146 ) For footnotes, see page 249. Securities investment conduits (Unaudited) The total carrying amount of ABSs held through SPEs in the above table represents holdings in which significant first loss protection is provided through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding Solitaire. At each reporting date, we assess whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of the ABSs held by SPEs. Impairment charges incurred on these assets are offset by a credit to the impairment line for the amount of the loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to the carrying amount of the capital notes being sufficient to offset the loss. During the year impairment charges in one SPE, Mazarin Funding Ltd (‘Mazarin’), exceeded the carrying value of the capital notes liability and a charge of US$119m (2011: US$26m) was borne by HSBC as shown in the table below. In respect of the SICs, the capital notes held by third parties are expected to absorb the cash losses in the vehicles. Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire (Unaudited) SICs excluding Solitaire at 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m Available-for-sale reserve (787 ) (2,701 ) – related to asset-backed securities (720 ) (2,061 ) Economic first loss protection 2,286 2,286 Carrying amount of capital notes liability 249 154 Impairment charge for the year: – borne by HSBC 119 26 – allocated to capital note holders – 313 Impairment methodologies (Audited) The accounting policy for impairment and indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2 on the Financial Statements. A summary of our impairment methodologies is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 260. Analysis of exposures and significant movements (Audited) Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets The assets in the table below included US$2.2bn (2011: US$2.4bn) relating to US-originated assets and US$1.3bn (2011: US$1.0bn) relating to UK non-conforming residential mortgage-related assets. At 31 December 2012, 13% (US$0.5bn) of our sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets were rated AA or AAA (2011: 25% (US$0.9bn)). 186 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss26 (Audited) Trading Availablefor sale Held tomaturity Designatedat fair valuethroughprofit or loss Loans andreceivables Total Of whichheld throughconsolidated SPEs Gross principal exposure 30 Credit default swap protection 31 Net principal exposure 32 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 698 2,455 – – 435 3,588 2,723 5,483 130 5,353 Direct lending 566 – – – – 566 482 1,221 – 1,221 MBSs and MBS CDOs 132 2,455 – – 435 3,022 2,241 4,262 130 4,132 US Alt-A residential 157 3,658 118 – 157 4,090 2,994 6,992 100 6,892 Direct lending 71 – – – – 71 – 77 – 77 MBSs 86 3,658 118 – 157 4,019 2,994 6,915 100 6,815 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 369 23,341 1,455 – – 25,165 – 23,438 – 23,438 Other residential 695 2,084 – – 499 3,278 1,459 3,888 87 3,801 Direct lending 322 – – – – 322 – 322 – 322 MBSs 373 2,084 – – 499 2,956 1,459 3,566 87 3,479 Commercial property MBSs and MBS CDOs 164 6,995 – 109 1,319 8,587 5,959 9,489 – 9,489 2,083 38,533 1,573 109 2,410 44,708 13,135 49,290 317 48,973 Leveraged finance-related assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 450 5,330 – – 284 6,064 4,303 6,726 717 6,009 Student loan-related assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 179 4,219 – – 156 4,554 3,722 5,826 199 5,627 Other assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 1,511 1,553 – 49 1,537 4,650 1,140 5,769 1,318 4,451 4,223 49,635 1,573 158 4,387 59,976 22,300 67,611 2,551 65,060 187 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss26 (continued) Trading Availablefor sale Held tomaturity Designatedat fair valuethroughprofit or loss Loans andreceivables Total Of whichheld throughconsolidated SPEs Gross principal exposure 30 Credit default swap protection 31 Net principal exposure 32 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 896 2,134 – – 598 3,628 2,367 6,222 275 5,947 Direct lending 733 – – – – 733 487 1,684 – 1,684 MBSs and MBS CDOs 163 2,134 – – 598 2,895 1,880 4,538 275 4,263 US Alt-A residential 190 3,516 166 – 243 4,115 2,827 8,610 100 8,510 Direct lending 114 – – – – 114 – 119 – 119 MBSs 76 3,516 166 – 243 4,001 2,827 8,491 100 8,391 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 38 26,152 1,813 – – 28,003 – 26,498 – 26,498 Other residential 670 3,286 – – 978 4,934 2,098 5,702 – 5,702 Direct lending 314 – – – – 314 – 309 – 309 MBSs 356 3,286 – – 978 4,620 2,098 5,393 – 5,393 Commercial property MBSs and MBS CDOs 300 7,240 – 107 1,816 9,463 5,795 11,222 – 11,222 2,094 42,328 1,979 107 3,635 50,143 13,087 58,254 375 57,879 Leveraged finance-related assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 362 5,566 – – 347 6,275 4,324 7,112 782 6,330 Student loan-related assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 179 4,665 – – 153 4,997 4,114 6,681 199 6,482 Other assets: ABSs and ABS CDOs 1,477 2,044 – 94 1,818 5,433 1,473 7,539 1,391 6,148 4,112 54,603 1,979 201 5,953 66,848 22,998 79,586 2,747 76,839 For footnotes, see page 249. The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 190. 188 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Of the non-high grade assets held of US$3.1bn (2011: US$2.7bn), US$1.4bn (2011: US$1.2bn) related to US-originated assets. There was an increase in market prices for sub-prime assets during the course of 2012. Write-backs of US$44m on assets were recognised in 2012 (2011: impairments of US$42m). Of the above write-backs, there were US$67m of write-backs (2011: US$5m of write-backs) in the SICs, of which US$27m (2011: US$5m) were attributed to capital noteholders. US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets In respect of US Alt-A securities, there were write-backs of US$19m (2011: impairments of US$687m). Despite the overall write-backs, impairments of US$190m (2011: US$344m) occurred in the SICs, of which US$32m (2011: US$318m) was borne by the capital noteholders. At 31 December 2012, 5% (US$0.2bn) of these assets were rated AA or AAA (2011: 9% (US$0.4bn)). Commercial property mortgage-related assets Of our total of US$8.6bn (2011: US$9.5bn) of commercial property mortgage-related assets, US$4.1bn related to US-originated assets (2011: US$4.9bn). Spreads tightened on both US and non-US commercial property mortgage-related assets during 2012. Impairments of US$125m were recognised in 2012 (2011: US$36m). Transactions with monoline insurers (Audited) HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monolines Our principal exposure to monolines is through a number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly CDSs. We entered into these CDSs primarily to purchase credit protection against securities held at the time within the trading portfolio. During 2012, our overall credit exposure to monolines decreased, primarily as a result of the tightening of credit spreads which reduced the fair value of the derivatives. The table below sets out the fair value, essentially the replacement cost, of the remaining derivative transactions at 31 December 2012, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective because, for example, the monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations. In order to further analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased is shown subdivided between those monolines that were rated by S&P at ‘BBB- or above’ at 31 December 2012, and those that were ‘below BBB–’ (BBB– is the S&P cut-off for an investment grade classification). The ‘Credit valuation adjustment’ column indicates the valuation adjustment taken against the net exposures, and reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of value on purchased protection arising from the deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines. These valuation adjustments, which reflect a measure of the irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have been charged to the income statement. HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers (Audited) Notional amount Net exposure before credit valuation adjustment 33 Credit valuation adjustment 34 Net exposure after credit valuation adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) 4,191 606 (121 ) 485 Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) 957 303 (158 ) 145 5,148 909 (279 ) 630 At 31 December 2011 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) 4,936 873 (87 ) 786 Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) 1,552 370 (217 ) 153 6,488 1,243 (304 ) 939 For footnotes, see page 249. 189 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market prices are generally not readily available for CDSs, so they are valued on the basis of market prices of the referenced securities. As described on page 56, during 2012 we amended our methodology for the calculation of credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation adjustments to reflect evolving market practice. As a result, our monoline credit and debit valuation adjustment calculations utilise a methodology based on CDS spreads with no adjustments being made based on the credit rating of the monoline. Credit valuation adjustments for monolines For monolines, the standard credit valuation adjustment methodology (as described on page 56) applies, with the exception that the future exposure profile is deemed to be constant (equal to the current market value) over the weighted average life of the referenced security. HSBC’s exposure to debt securities which benefit from guarantees provided by monolines Within both the trading and available-for-sale portfolios, we hold bonds that are ‘wrapped’ with a credit enhancement from a monoline. As the bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities at 31 December 2012. For wrapped bonds held in our trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected through the income statement. For wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected in equity unless there is objective evidence of impairment, in which case the impairment loss is reflected in the income statement. No wrapped bonds were included in the reclassification of financial assets described in Note 17 on the Financial Statements. Leveraged finance transactions (Audited) Leveraged finance transactions include sub-investment grade acquisition or event-driven financing. The following table shows our exposure to leveraged finance transactions arising from primary transactions. Our additional exposure to leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs from our trading and investment activities is shown in the table on page 187. We held leveraged finance commitments of US$2.8bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$3.7bn), of which US$2.6bn (2011: US$3.3bn) was funded. At 31 December 2012, our principal exposures were to companies in two sectors: US$0.7bn to data processing (2011: US$1.3bn) and US$1.8bn to communications and infrastructure (2011: US$1.9bn). HSBC’s exposure to leveraged finance transactions (Audited) Exposures at 31 December 2012 Exposures at 31 December 2011 Funded 35 Unfunded 36 Total Funded 35 Unfunded 36 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Europe 2,108 162 2,270 2,795 253 3,048 North America 414 92 506 445 126 571 2,522 254 2,776 3,240 379 3,619 Held within: – loans and receivables 2,522 252 2,774 3,120 328 3,448 – fair value through profit or loss – 2 2 120 51 171 For footnotes, see page 249. 190 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Representations and warranties related to mortgage sales and securitisation activities (Unaudited) We have been involved in various activities related to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages which are not recognised on our balance sheet. These activities include: • the purchase of US$24bn of third-party originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and the securitisation of these by HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (‘HSI’) between 2005 and 2007; • HSI acting as underwriter for third-party issuance of private label MBSs with an original issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were sub-prime; and • the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to government sponsored entities. In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, various representations and warranties regarding the loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage loans and MBSs. In respect of the purchase and securitisation of third party originated mortgages and the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of loan level representations and warranties resides predominantly with the organisation that originated the loan. Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries which have been directed at groups within the US mortgage market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations. Further information is provided in Note 43 on the Financial Statements. At 31 December 2012, a liability of US$219m was recognised in respect of various representations and warranties relating to the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to government sponsored entities (2011: US$237m). These relate to, among other things, the ownership of the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection and origination process and compliance with the origination criteria established by the agencies. In the event of a breach of our representations and warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to repurchase the loans with identified defects or to indemnify the buyers. The liability is estimated based on the level of outstanding repurchase demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan files and estimated future demands in respect of mortgages sold to date which are either two or more payments delinquent or expected to become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. Repurchase demands of US$89m were outstanding at 2012 (2011: US$113m). 191 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Upon receipt of a repurchase demand, we perform a detailed evaluation of the request. In many cases, we ultimately are not required to repurchase a loan as we are able to resolve the purported defect. From initial inquiry to ultimate resolution, a typical case takes roughly 12 months. Acceptance of a repurchase demand will involve either a) repurchase of the loan at the unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest or b) reimbursement for any realised loss on the sale of a property (‘make-whole’ payment). To date, repurchase demands we have received primarily relate to prime loans sourced during 2004 through 2008 from the legacy broker channel which we exited from in late 2008. Loans sold to GSEs and other third parties originated in 2004 through 2008 subject to representations and warranties for which we may be liable had an outstanding principal balance of approximately US$15.1bn at 31 December 2012, including US$9.6bn of loans sourced from our legacy broker channel. The trend in repurchase demands received on loans sold to GSEs and other third parties by loan origination vintage, outstanding repurchase demands and movement in repurchase liabilities are as follows: Trend in repurchase demands received by loans sold to GSEs and other third parties by origination vintage 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Pre-2004 7 5 2004 21 13 2005 28 24 2006 80 56 2007 209 146 2008 123 98 Post-2008 18 68 Total repurchase demands received 486 410 Outstanding repurchase demands received from GSEs and other third parties At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m GSEs 86 78 Others 3 35 Total 89 113 Movement in repurchase liability for loans sold to GSEs and other third parties 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 1 January 237 262 Increase in liability recorded through earnings 134 92 Realised losses (152 ) (117 ) At 31 December 219 237 Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses are dependent upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external risk factors such as housing market trends that may change, the estimate of the liability for a mortgage loan repurchase requires significant judgement. Because these estimates are influenced by factors outside our control, there is uncertainty inherent in them, making it reasonably possible that the estimates could change. Risk elements in the loan portfolio (Unaudited) The disclosure of credit risk elements in this section reflects US accounting practice and classifications. The purpose of the disclosure is to present within the US disclosure framework those elements of the loan portfolios with a greater risk of loss. The three main classifications of credit risk elements presented are: • impaired loans; • unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal; and 191a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • troubled debt restructurings not included in the above. Interest forgone on impaired and restructured loans Interest income that would have been recognised under the original terms of impaired and restructured loans amounted to approximately US$2.9bn in 2012 (2011: US$3.6bn). The table below analyses this by geographic region. 2012 2011 US$m US$m Europe 215 266 Hong Kong 29 62 Rest of Asia-Pacific 78 109 Middle East and North Africa 118 140 North America 1,817 2,498 Latin America 610 545 2,867 3,620 Interest income from such loans of approximately US$1.7bn was recorded in 2012 (2011: US$1.9bn). The table below analyses this by geographic region. 2012 2011 US$m US$m Europe 41 69 Hong Kong 7 6 Rest of Asia-Pacific 29 49 Middle East and North Africa 29 33 North America 1,110 1,310 Latin America 491 391 1,707 1,858 Impaired loans In the following tables, we present information on our impaired loans and advances in accordance with the classification approach described on page 162. A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated. In accordance with IFRSs, we recognise interest income on assets after they have been written down as a result of an impairment loss. The balance of impaired loans at 31 December 2012 was US$3.0bn lower than at 31 December 2011. This reduction occurred primarily in North America due to the continued run-off of the CML portfolio which included the reclassification of certain impaired non-real estate personal loan balances to held for sale. In addition, impaired loans declined in Europe due to releases and write-offs of a number of non-performing loans, increased focus on higher quality loans, lower delinquency rates and the continued low interest rate environment. Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more Examples of unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more include individually assessed mortgages that are in arrears more than 90 days where there are no other indicators of impairment, but where the value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal debt and all potential interest for at least one year; and short-term trade facilities past due more than 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in documentation, but where there is no concern over the creditworthiness of the counterparty. The amount of unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more at 31 December 2012 was US$224m, US$139m lower than at 31 December 2011. The decrease was primarily in the Middle East and North Africa due to the repayment of a significant loan relating to an individual customer. Troubled debt restructurings Under US GAAP, a troubled debt restructuring (‘TDR’) is a loan the terms of which have been modified for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower’s financial difficulties to grant a concession to the borrower that the lender would not otherwise consider. A modification which results in a delay in payment that is considered insignificant is not regarded as a concession for the purposes of this disclosure. The SEC requires separate disclosure of any loans which meet the definition of a TDR that are not included in the previous two loan categories. These are classified as TDR’s in the table on page 191d. Loans that have been identified as a TDR under the US guidance retain this designation until they are repaid or are derecognised. This treatment differs from the Group’s impaired loans disclosure convention under IFRS under which a loan may return to unimpaired status after demonstrating a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows. As a result reported TDRs include those loans that have returned to unimpaired status under the Group’s disclosure convention for renegotiated loans. The amount of TDRs at 31 December 2012 was US$2.2bn higher than at 31 December 2011. The increase was mainly in North America, and to a lesser extent in Europe. Renegotiated loans meeting the TDR definition which have ceased to be classified as impaired loans after the demonstration of a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash-flows continue to be classified in the TDR category until they are either repaid or written 191b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) off. The TDR balances have continued to increase in 2012, reflecting renegotiated loans that have demonstrated continued payment performance and are no longer disclosed as impaired. Potential problem loans Potential problem loans are loans where information on possible credit problems among borrowers causes management to seriously doubt their ability to comply with the loan repayment terms. There are no potential problem loans other than those identified in the table of risk elements on page 191d. The following concentrations of credit risk have a higher risk of containing potential problem loans. ‘Mortgage lending’ on page 148 includes disclosure about certain homogeneous groups of loans which are collectively assessed for impairment, which may represent exposures to potential problem loans, including interest-only mortgages and affordability mortgages, including ARMs. Collectively assessed loans and advances, as set out on page 169, although not classified as impaired until more than 90 days past due, are assessed collectively for losses that have been incurred but have not yet been individually identified. This policy is further described on pages 258 and 389. ‘Renegotiated loans and forbearance’ on page 158 includes disclosure about the credit quality of loans whose contractual terms have been changed at some point in the life of the loan because of significant concerns about the borrower’s ability to make contractual payments when due. Where renegotiated loans are not classified as impaired, this is because they exhibit a lower risk of non-payment of future cash flows than those presented as impaired. However, some of these loans may have a higher risk of becoming delinquent in the future, and may therefore be potential problem loans. ‘Areas of special interest’ on page 128 includes information on refinancing risk which is a focus of scrutiny in key commercial real estate markets. Where a loan which is due to be repaid through refinancing over the short term cannot, at maturity, be refinanced by HSBC or other banks on current market terms this will either lead to the loan being treated as impaired due to repayment default or, if refinanced within HSBC, may result in it being treated as a renegotiated loan because of the degree of forbearance required. Therefore loans in portfolios subject to refinancing risk may include potential problem loans. 191c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Analysis of risk elements in the loan portfolio by geographical region (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2009 US$m 2008 US$m Impaired loans Europe 11,145 11,819 11,500 10,873 6,844 Hong Kong 477 608 665 846 852 Rest of Asia-Pacific 1,147 1,070 1,324 1,201 835 Middle East and North Africa 2,474 2,445 2,549 1,666 279 North America 20,345 22,758 27,902 13,308 14,285 Latin America 3,188 3,039 3,124 2,951 2,327 38,776 41,739 47,064 30,845 25,422 Unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest Europe 33 41 65 57 635 Hong Kong 4 3 7 4 43 Rest of Asia-Pacific 10 21 40 36 84 Middle East and North Africa 108 214 263 215 190 North America 69 74 265 217 108 Latin America – 10 3 40 21 224 363 643 569 1,081 Troubled debt restructurings (not included in the classifications above) Europe 1,306 753 591 436 366 Hong Kong 134 108 205 236 165 Rest of Asia-Pacific 102 122 198 135 90 Middle East and North Africa 593 444 141 103 29 North America 3,813 2,300 1,970 9,613 5,618 Latin America 1,001 1,037 1,274 1,518 1,067 6,949 4,764 4,379 12,041 7,335 Trading loans classified as in default North America 166 230 412 798 561 Risk elements on loans77 Europe 12,484 12,613 12,157 11,366 7,845 Hong Kong 615 719 877 1,086 1,060 Rest of Asia-Pacific 1,259 1,213 1,562 1,372 1,009 Middle East and North Africa 3,175 3,103 2,953 1,984 498 North America 24,393 25,362 30,549 23,936 20,572 Latin America 4,189 4,086 4,401 4,509 3,415 46,115 47,096 52,499 44,253 34,399 Assets held for resale78 Europe 51 60 47 52 81 Hong Kong 5 4 2 10 26 Rest of Asia-Pacific 14 10 5 8 11 Middle East and North Africa – – 2 2 2 North America 319 359 1,084 707 1,758 Latin America 55 69 121 153 113 444 502 1,261 932 1,991 Total risk elements Europe 12,535 12,673 12,204 11,418 7,926 Hong Kong 620 723 879 1,096 1,086 Rest of Asia-Pacific 1,273 1,223 1,567 1,380 1,020 Middle East and North Africa 3,175 3,103 2,955 1,986 500 North America 24,712 25,721 31,633 24,643 22,330 Latin America 4,244 4,155 4,522 4,662 3,528 46,559 47,598 53,760 45,185 36,390 % % % % % Loan impairment allowances as a percentage of risk elements on loans79 35.2 37.6 38.9 59.0 70.8 For footnotes, see page 249. 191d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Eurozone exposures (Unaudited) Page Tables Page Exposures to countries in the eurozone 192 Basis of preparation 192 Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet 193 Summary of exposures to eurozone countries 193 Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries 194 Exposures to Spain 194 Exposures to Ireland 195 Exposures to Italy 196 Exposures to Greece 197 Exposures to Portugal 198 Commentary on exposures 199 Exposures to other eurozone countries 200 Summary of exposures to other eurozone countries 200 Redenomination risk 201 In-country funding exposure 202 Exposures to countries in the eurozone (Audited) The tables in this section summarise our exposures to selected eurozone countries, including: • governments and central banks along with quasi government agencies; • banks; • other financial institutions and corporates; and • personal lending. Exposures to banks, other financial institutions, other corporates and personal lending are based upon the counterparty’s country of domicile. Basis of preparation The gross exposure represents the on-balance sheet carrying amounts recorded in accordance with IFRSs and off-balance sheet exposures. The net exposure is stated after taking into account mitigating offsets that are incorporated into the risk management view of the exposure but do not meet accounting offset requirements. These risk mitigating offsets include: • short positions managed together with trading assets; • derivative liabilities for which a legally enforceable right of offset with derivative assets exists; and • collateral received on derivative assets. Short positions managed together with trading assets mitigate risk to which HSBC is exposed at the balance sheet date when, in the event of default, the trading asset and related short position crystallise gains and losses simultaneously. When such relationships exist, an element of the risk will remain where the short and long positions do not match exactly, for example, the maturity of the short position is less than the trading asset or the short position does not represent an identical security. The remaining risk is reflected in the gross balance sheet exposure shown before risk mitigation. However, as the net position best reflects the effects of a credit event should it occur at the balance sheet date, we consider that this measure is a key view of risk at that date. Credit risk mitigation includes derivative liabilities with the same counterparty when a master netting arrangement is in place and the credit risk exposure is managed on a net basis or the position is specifically collateralised, normally in the form of cash. These amounts do not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes as settlement may not actually be made on a net basis, though we consider the net presentation more accurately reflects the risk exposure. The effect of the transfer of risk to policyholders under unit linked insurance contracts, as well as trading assets which represent collateral to support associated liabilities, are separately disclosed in the detailed peripheral country exposures, but are not deducted from the total net exposure. CDSs reported in the detailed peripheral eurozone country tables are not included in the derivative exposure line as they are typically transacted with counterparties incorporated or domiciled outside the country whose exposure they reference. 192 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet exposures The CDSs were transacted with banks with investment grade credit ratings, and would pay out in the event of the default of the referenced security and certain other credit events. CDS contracts disclosed in the tables below were principally entered into for customer facilitation with banks and financial institutions where their terms are typically drawn up in accordance with the guidance set out in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives Definitions and the 2009 Supplement. The credit events that trigger the payout of CDSs may differ as they are based on the terms of each agreement between the counterparties. Such credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, restructuring and repudiation or moratoria. Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to commitments to lend and the amounts shown in the tables represent the amounts that could be drawn down by the counterparties. In some instances, limitations are imposed on a counterparty’s ability to draw down on a facility. These limitations are governed by the documentation, which differs from counterparty to counterparty. In the majority of cases, we are bound to fulfil commitments made to third parties. Summary of exposures to eurozone countries (Unaudited) On-balance sheet exposures Off-balance sheet exposures Total gross exposures Risk mitigation Total net exposure US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2012 Spain 15.3 3.2 18.5 (6.4 ) 12.1 Ireland 20.7 1.3 22.0 (12.1 ) 9.9 Italy 12.6 3.0 15.6 (6.0 ) 9.6 Greece 5.9 0.7 6.6 (0.8 ) 5.8 Portugal 1.1 0.3 1.4 (0.4 ) 1.0 Cyprus 0.3 0.1 0.4 – 0.4 France 158.3 28.0 186.3 (40.8 ) 145.5 Germany 112.4 11.6 124.0 (56.6 ) 67.4 The Netherlands 39.7 4.1 43.8 (14.4 ) 29.4 Others 38.0 4.9 42.9 (14.3 ) 28.6 404.3 57.2 461.5 (151.8 ) 309.7 At 31 December 2011 Spain 15.7 2.0 17.7 (5.4 ) 12.3 Ireland 14.1 0.3 14.4 (8.6 ) 5.8 Italy 16.4 1.4 17.8 (9.4 ) 8.4 Greece 6.6 1.6 8.2 (0.6 ) 7.6 Portugal 1.7 – 1.7 (0.6 ) 1.1 Cyprus 0.2 0.2 0.4 – 0.4 France 154.8 26.5 181.3 (31.3 ) 150.0 Germany 86.3 10.1 96.4 (38.0 ) 58.4 The Netherlands 70.1 1.8 71.9 (6.2 ) 65.7 Others 36.1 4.0 40.1 (14.0 ) 26.1 402.0 47.9 449.9 (114.1 ) 335.8 193 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries Exposures to Spain (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions and corporates Personal Total Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions andcorporates Personal Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Cash and balances at central banks – – – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 Loans and advances – 0.1 5.0 – 5.1 – 0.2 5.6 – 5.8 – gross – 0.1 5.1 – 5.2 – 0.2 5.7 – 5.9 – impairment allowances – – (0.1 ) – (0.1 ) – – (0.1 ) – (0.1 ) Financial investments available for sale37 0.4 0.3 0.1 – 0.8 0.9 0.4 0.1 – 1.4 – amortised cost 0.2 0.4 0.1 – 0.7 0.9 0.4 0.1 – 1.4 Trading assets 1.4 1.9 0.1 – 3.4 1.8 2.4 0.2 – 4.4 Derivative assets 0.1 4.8 1.1 – 6.0 0.2 3.6 0.2 – 4.0 Gross balance sheet exposure before risk mitigation 1.9 7.1 6.3 – 15.3 3.0 6.6 6.1 – 15.7 Risk mitigation (0.9 ) (4.6 ) (0.9 ) – (6.4 ) (1.8 ) (3.5 ) (0.1 ) – (5.4 ) – short trading positions (0.9 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) – (1.1 ) (1.7 ) (0.4 ) (0.1 ) – (2.2 ) – collateral and derivative liabilities – (4.5 ) (0.8 ) – (5.3 ) (0.1 ) (3.1 ) – – (3.2 ) Net on-balance sheet exposure 1.0 2.5 5.4 – 8.9 1.2 3.1 6.0 – 10.3 Off-balance sheet exposures – 0.3 2.9 – 3.2 1.0 0.4 0.6 – 2.0 – commitments – – 2.3 – 2.3 1.0 – 0.1 – 1.1 – guarantees and other – 0.3 0.6 – 0.9 – 0.4 0.5 – 0.9 Total net exposure 1.0 2.8 8.3 – 12.1 2.2 3.5 6.6 – 12.3 Of which: – net trading assets representing cash collateral posted – 1.5 – – 1.5 0.1 1.3 – – 1.4 – on-balance sheet exposures held to meet DPF insurance liabilities 0.2 0.3 0.1 – 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.1 – 0.9 Total credit default swaps – CDS bought positions 0.4 – – – 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 – 0.6 – CDS sold positions (0.3 ) – – – (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) – (0.6 ) – CDS bought notionals 6.8 2.8 1.2 – 10.8 3.3 1.5 1.4 – 6.2 – CDS sold notionals 6.4 2.7 1.2 – 10.3 3.5 1.4 1.3 – 6.2 For footnote, see page 249. For commentary, see page 199. 194 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to Ireland (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions and corporates Personal Total Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions andcorporates Personal Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Loans and advances – 0.1 2.5 0.1 2.7 – 0.1 2.1 0.1 2.3 – gross – 0.1 2.5 0.2 2.8 – 0.1 2.1 0.2 2.4 – impairment allowances – – – (0.1 ) (0.1 ) – – – (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Financial investments held to maturity – 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2 – – 0.2 – fair value – 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2 – – 0.2 Financial investments available for sale 0.1 – 2.3 – 2.4 0.1 0.4 0.3 – 0.8 – amortised cost 0.1 – 2.5 – 2.6 0.1 0.4 0.4 – 0.9 – available-for-sale reserve – – (0.2 ) – (0.2 ) – – (0.1 ) – (0.1 ) Trading assets 0.3 1.5 0.8 – 2.6 0.3 0.9 0.3 – 1.5 Derivative assets 0.7 11.1 1.0 – 12.8 0.3 8.3 0.7 – 9.3 Gross balance sheet exposure before risk mitigation 1.1 12.9 6.6 0.1 20.7 0.7 9.9 3.4 0.1 14.1 Risk mitigation (0.7 ) (11.1 ) (0.3 ) – (12.1 ) (0.4 ) (8.0 ) (0.2 ) – (8.6 ) – short trading positions (0.1 ) – – – (0.1 ) (0.1 ) – – – (0.1 ) – collateral and derivative liabilities (0.6 ) (11.1 ) (0.3 ) – (12.0 ) (0.3 ) (8.0 ) (0.2 ) – (8.5 ) Net on-balance sheet exposure 0.4 1.8 6.3 0.1 8.6 0.3 1.9 3.2 0.1 5.5 Off-balance sheet exposures – – 1.3 – 1.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3 – commitments – – 1.1 – 1.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1 – guarantees and others – – 0.2 – 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2 Total net exposure 0.4 1.8 7.6 0.1 9.9 0.3 1.9 3.5 0.1 5.8 Of which: – net trading assets representing cash collateral posted 0.1 1.5 – – 1.6 0.1 0.6 – – 0.7 – on-balance sheet exposures held to meet DPF insurance liabilities 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 Total credit default swaps – CDS bought positions – – – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 – CDS sold positions – – – – – (0.2 ) – – – (0.2 ) – CDS bought notionals 1.5 – 0.5 – 2.0 0.9 – 0.3 – 1.2 – CDS sold notionals 1.5 – 0.2 – 1.7 0.9 – 0.3 – 1.2 For commentary, see page 199. 195 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to Italy (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions and corporates Personal Total Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions andcorporates Personal Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Loans and advances – 0.1 1.2 0.1 1.4 – 0.5 1.4 0.1 2.0 – gross – 0.1 1.2 0.1 1.4 – 0.5 1.4 0.1 2.0 Financial investments held to maturity 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 – fair value 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 Financial investments available for sale37 0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4 0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4 – amortised cost 0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4 0.8 0.3 0.2 – 1.3 Financial assets designated at fair value – – 0.1 – 0.1 – – – – – Trading assets 5.2 0.7 0.1 – 6.0 8.3 0.6 0.2 – 9.1 Derivative assets 0.5 1.7 1.2 – 3.4 0.7 1.9 1.0 – 3.6 Gross balance sheet exposure before risk mitigation 6.6 3.0 2.9 0.1 12.6 9.9 3.5 2.9 0.1 16.4 Risk mitigation (3.9 ) (1.6 ) (0.5 ) – (6.0 ) (7.6 ) (1.5 ) (0.3 ) – (9.4 ) – short trading positions (3.9 ) – – – (3.9 ) (6.9 ) – – – (6.9 ) – collateral and derivative liabilities – (1.6 ) (0.5 ) – (2.1 ) (0.7 ) (1.5 ) (0.3 ) – (2.5 ) Net on-balance sheet exposure 2.7 1.4 2.4 0.1 6.6 2.3 2.0 2.6 0.1 7.0 Off-balance sheet exposures – 0.2 2.8 – 3.0 – 0.1 1.3 – 1.4 – commitments – – 1.8 – 1.8 – – 0.9 – 0.9 – guarantees and others – 0.2 1.0 – 1.2 – 0.1 0.4 – 0.5 Total net exposure 2.7 1.6 5.2 0.1 9.6 2.3 2.1 3.9 0.1 8.4 Of which: – net trading assets representing cash collateral posted – 0.6 – – 0.6 – 0.5 – – 0.5 – on-balance sheet exposures held to meet DPF insurance liabilities 0.3 0.4 0.2 – 0.9 0.3 0.4 0.2 – 0.9 Total credit default swaps – CDS bought positions 0.6 0.1 0.1 – 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.3 – 1.4 – CDS sold positions (0.5 ) (0.1 ) – – (0.6 ) (0.6 ) (0.5 ) (0.2 ) – (1.3 ) – CDS bought notionals 9.9 6.1 3.6 – 19.6 3.9 3.5 3.7 – 11.1 – CDS sold notionals 10.3 6.1 3.6 – 20.0 3.8 3.5 3.5 – 10.8 For footnote, see page 249. For commentary, see page 199. 196 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to Greece (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions and corporates Personal Total Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions andcorporates Personal Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Loans and advances 0.1 – 3.4 1.0 4.5 – 0.1 3.8 1.0 4.9 – gross 0.1 – 3.4 1.0 4.5 – 0.1 4.0 1.0 5.1 – impairment allowances – – – – – – – (0.2 ) – (0.2 ) Financial investments available for sale – – – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 – cumulative impairment – – – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 Trading assets – 0.6 – – 0.6 0.4 0.4 – – 0.8 Derivative assets – 0.8 – – 0.8 – 0.7 0.1 – 0.8 Gross balance sheet exposure before risk mitigation 0.1 1.4 3.4 1.0 5.9 0.5 1.2 3.9 1.0 6.6 Risk mitigation – (0.8 ) – – (0.8 ) (0.1 ) (0.5 ) – – (0.6 ) – short trading positions – – – – – (0.1 ) – – – (0.1 ) – collateral and derivative liabilities – (0.8 ) – – (0.8 ) – (0.5 ) – – (0.5 ) Net on-balance sheet exposure 0.1 0.6 3.4 1.0 5.1 0.4 0.7 3.9 1.0 6.0 Off-balance sheet exposures – – 0.7 – 0.7 0.2 1.4 – 1.6 – commitments – – 0.2 – 0.2 – – 0.8 – 0.8 – guarantees and others – – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.2 0.6 – 0.8 Total net exposure 0.1 0.6 4.1 1.0 5.8 0.4 0.9 5.3 1.0 7.6 Total credit default swaps – CDS bought positions – – – – – 1.2 – 0.1 – 1.3 – CDS sold positions – – – – – (0.7 ) – (0.1 ) – (0.8 ) – CDS bought notionals – – 0.4 – 0.4 1.8 – 0.2 – 2.0 – CDS sold notionals – – 0.4 – 0.4 1.0 – 0.3 – 1.3 For commentary, see page 199. 197 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to Portugal (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions and corporates Personal Total Sovereign and agencies Banks Other financial institutions andcorporates Personal Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Loans and advances – 0.3 0.2 – 0.5 – 0.3 – – 0.3 – gross – 0.3 0.2 – 0.5 – 0.3 – – 0.3 Financial investments available for sale 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 – cumulative impairment – – – – – – – – – – – amortised cost 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 – available-for-sale reserve – – – – – – – – – – Trading assets 0.3 – – – 0.3 0.6 0.1 – – 0.7 Derivative assets – 0.2 – – 0.2 0.3 0.2 – – 0.5 Gross balance sheet exposure before risk mitigation 0.4 0.5 0.2 – 1.1 1.0 0.6 0.1 – 1.7 Risk mitigation (0.2 ) (0.2 ) – – (0.4 ) (0.5 ) (0.1 ) – – (0.6 ) – short trading positions (0.2 ) – – – (0.2 ) (0.2 ) – – – (0.2 ) – collateral and derivative liabilities – (0.2 ) – – (0.2 ) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) – – (0.4 ) Net on-balance sheet exposure 0.2 0.3 0.2 – 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.1 – 1.1 Off-balance sheet exposures – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3 – – – – – – commitments – – 0.2 – 0.2 – – – – – – guarantees and others – 0.1 – – 0.1 – – – – – Total net exposure 0.2 0.4 0.4 – 1.0 0.5 0.5 0.1 – 1.1 Of which: – net trading assets representing cash collateral posted – – – – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – on-balance sheet exposures held to meet DPF insurance liabilities 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 Total credit default swaps – CDS bought positions 0.1 – – – 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 – 0.6 – CDS sold positions (0.1 ) – – – (0.1 ) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) – (0.5 ) – CDS bought notionals 1.6 0.9 0.8 – 3.3 1.2 0.6 0.6 – 2.4 – CDS sold notionals 1.5 0.9 0.8 – 3.2 1.2 0.5 0.7 – 2.4 For commentary, see page 199. 198 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Commentary on exposures Spain At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Spain was US$12.1bn, US$0.2bn lower than at the end of 2011. Our total net exposure to Spanish sovereign and agencies was US$1.0bn, US$1.2bn lower than at the end of 2011. The reduction was primarily due to lower off-balance sheet positions. Our total net exposure to Spanish banks was US$2.8bn, US$0.7bn lower than at the end of 2011. The reduced exposure was due to increased risk mitigation. Our total net exposure to Spanish other financial institutions and corporates was US$8.3bn, an increase of US$1.7bn primarily due to higher off-balance sheet commitments. Our exposure to Spanish other financial institutions and corporates mainly comprised large multinational companies and other financial institutions with significant operations outside Spain, which mitigated the risk. Exposure to the commercial real estate sector in Spain remained insignificant. Ireland At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Ireland was US$9.9bn, US$4.1bn higher than at the end of 2011. This increase was in respect of exposures to other financial institutions and corporates. Our total net exposure to Irish other financial institutions and corporates was US$7.6bn, US$4.1bn higher than at the end of 2011. The increase was primarily in financial investments available for sale for which the underlying risk is not predominantly Irish. A significant portion of our exposure related to foreign-owned entities incorporated in Ireland. Italy At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Italy was US$9.6bn, US$1.2bn higher than at the end of 2011. Our total net exposure to Italian sovereign agencies was US$2.7bn, US$0.4bn higher than at the end of 2011. This was due to a decrease in risk mitigation. Our total net exposure to Italian banks was US$1.6bn, US$0.5bn lower than at the end of 2011. The reduced exposure was primarily due to lower amounts of loans and advances. Our total net exposure to other financial institutions and corporates at 31 December 2012 was US$5.2bn, an increase of US$1.3bn. Our exposure to Italian other financial institutions and corporates mainly comprised large multinational companies and other financial institutions with significant operations outside Italy, which mitigated the risk. Greece At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Greece was US$5.8bn, US$1.8bn lower than at the end of 2011. Although there was a reduction in exposure levels to all Greek counterparties in the first half of 2012, the majority of the reduction was in respect of exposures to other financial institutions and corporates. Our total net exposure to Greek sovereign and agencies was US$0.1bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the end of 2011. Our Greek sovereign exposure decreased as a result of the debt restructuring in March 2012 and the associated settlement of CDS contracts. Our total net exposure to Greek banks was US$0.6bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the end of 2011. The decrease was primarily due to lower off-balance sheet positions. Our total net exposure to Greek other financial institutions and corporates was US$4.1bn, US$1.2bn lower than at the end of 2011. The reduction was primarily due to lower level of off-balance sheet positions. At 31 December 2012, our exposure to Greek shipping companies amounted to US$2.2bn. We believe the industry is less sensitive to the Greek economy as it is mainly dependent on international trade. Portugal At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Portugal was US$1.0bn, similar to the end of 2011. Our total net exposure to Portuguese other financial institutions and corporates was US$0.4bn, US$0.3bn higher than at the end of 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher off-balance sheet commitments, which were in support of internationally active corporates with significant operations outside Portugal, which reduced the risk. Cyprus Our gross on-balance sheet exposure to Cyprus of US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn) consisted primarily of loans and advances to other financial institutions and corporates of US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn). We have also provided off-balance sheet commitments and guarantees to other financial institutions and corporates of US$0.1bn (2011: US$0.1bn). 199 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Exposures to other eurozone countries Summary of exposures to other eurozone countries (Unaudited) Sovereign and agencies US$bn Banks US$bn Other financial institutions and corporates US$bn Personal US$bn Total US$bn At 31 December 2012 France On-balance sheet exposure 44.1 55.0 43.7 15.5 158.3 Off-balance sheet exposure 0.2 1.7 25.3 0.8 28.0 Total gross exposure 44.3 56.7 69.0 16.3 186.3 Risk mitigation (11.3 ) (26.2 ) (3.3 ) – (40.8 ) Total net exposure 33.0 30.5 65.7 16.3 145.5 Germany On-balance sheet exposure 40.8 56.5 14.8 0.3 112.4 Off-balance sheet exposure – 0.2 11.1 0.3 11.6 Total gross exposure 40.8 56.7 25.9 0.6 124.0 Risk mitigation (13.4 ) (42.4 ) (0.8 ) – (56.6 ) Total net exposure 27.4 14.3 25.1 0.6 67.4 The Netherlands On-balance sheet exposure 14.4 10.4 14.8 0.1 39.7 Off-balance sheet exposure – 0.1 4.0 – 4.1 Total gross exposure 14.4 10.5 18.8 0.1 43.8 Risk mitigation (4.4 ) (5.2 ) (4.8 ) – (14.4 ) Total net exposure 10.0 5.3 14.0 0.1 29.4 Others On-balance sheet exposure 13.0 14.0 8.4 2.6 38.0 Off-balance sheet exposure – 0.3 4.0 0.6 4.9 Total gross exposure 13.0 14.3 12.4 3.2 42.9 Risk mitigation (3.2 ) (10.7 ) (0.4 ) – (14.3 ) Total net exposure 9.8 3.6 12.0 3.2 28.6 At 31 December 2011 France On-balance sheet exposure 36.7 67.0 37.1 14.0 154.8 Off-balance sheet exposure 1.9 1.8 21.7 1.1 26.5 Total gross exposure 38.6 68.8 58.8 15.1 181.3 Risk mitigation (9.5 ) (19.9 ) (1.7 ) (0.2 ) (31.3 ) Total net exposure 29.1 48.9 57.1 14.9 150.0 Germany On-balance sheet exposure 31.0 47.6 7.4 0.3 86.3 Off-balance sheet exposure – 1.5 8.2 0.4 10.1 Total gross exposure 31.0 49.1 15.6 0.7 96.4 Risk mitigation (11.0 ) (26.4 ) (0.6 ) – (38.0 ) Total net exposure 20.0 22.7 15.0 0.7 58.4 The Netherlands On-balance sheet exposure 43.3 16.3 10.4 0.1 70.1 Off-balance sheet exposure – 0.2 1.6 – 1.8 Total gross exposure 43.3 16.5 12.0 0.1 71.9 Risk mitigation (3.3 ) (1.3 ) (1.6 ) – (6.2 ) Total net exposure 40.0 15.2 10.4 0.1 65.7 Others On-balance sheet exposure 10.3 14.3 9.2 2.3 36.1 Off-balance sheet exposure – 0.3 2.9 0.8 4.0 Total gross exposure 10.3 14.6 12.1 3.1 40.1 Risk mitigation (3.0 ) (10.7 ) (0.3 ) – (14.0 ) Total net exposure 7.3 3.9 11.8 3.1 26.1 200 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet exposure to France, Germany and the Netherlands was US$199bn, US$37bn lower than at the end of 2011. Our net on-balance sheet exposure to the sovereign and agency debt of France, Germany and the Netherlands was US$70bn, US$17bn lower than at the end of 2011. Our exposure to France and Germany was commensurate with the size of our operations in these countries. In 2012, cash balances held with the Dutch Central Bank were reduced and redirected to the French Central Bank to align more closely with our underlying operations. The cash placements continued to be put into the euro clearing system managed by the ECB. At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet exposure to the bank debt of France, Germany, and the Netherlands was US$48bn, US$35bn lower than at the end of 2011. The decrease reflected our ongoing efforts to reduce exposure to counterparties domiciled in these countries with exposures to sovereigns and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten the counterparties’ on-going viability in the event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current crisis. At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet exposure to the corporate and other financial institution debt of France, Germany and the Netherlands was US$64bn, US$13bn higher than at the end of 2011. Off-balance sheet exposures increased by US$3.6bn in France. Our exposure in Germany and France was commensurate with the size of our operations and was well diversified across portfolios, sectors and products. Our relationships in these countries are mostly with large global entities that have significant operations outside their respective domestic markets. This mitigates our risk as these corporates have diversified the sources of their revenue and, more importantly, their ability to raise finance internationally should their domestic markets become strained. In France, our net exposure to personal lending at 31 December 2012 was US$16bn, US$1bn higher than at the end of 2011. The exposure was mainly in residential mortgages, loans secured by a national guarantee scheme and unsecured personal loans, and both delinquency and impairment charges remained low. Exposure to other eurozone countries In addition to the countries disclosed above, HSBC had net on-balance sheet exposures of US$24bn , US$1.6bn higher than in 2011 to eurozone countries that were not significant to the Group. Of these, the largest exposure was represented by our retail and corporate banking operations in Malta, which had a net on-balance sheet exposure of US$5.8bn, US$0.2bn lower than in 2011. Our second largest exposure was in Finland with US$4.3bn of net on-balance sheet exposure to sovereign, agencies and banks (of which US$2.6bn was cash collateral held in respect of derivative liabilities). We also had US$3.3bn of net on-balance sheet exposure to sovereigns, agencies and banks in Belgium (of which US$1.4bn was fully collateralised) and US$1.2bn to other financial institutions and corporates. Our remaining net on-balance sheet exposure to the eurozone was less than 5% of the Group’s total equity. Redenomination risk (Unaudited) As the peripheral eurozone countries continue to exhibit distress, there is continuing possibility of a member state exiting from the eurozone. There remains no established legal framework within the European treaties to facilitate such an event; consequently, it is not possible to accurately predict the course of events and legal consequences that would ensue. Our current view is that there would be a greater impact on HSBC from a euro exit of Greece, Italy or Spain than from Ireland, Portugal or Cyprus. Key risks associated with an exit by a eurozone member include: Foreign exchange losses: an exit would probably be accompanied by the passing of laws in the country concerned establishing a new local currency and providing for a redenomination of euro-denominated assets into the new local currency. The value of assets and liabilities in the country would immediately fall assuming the value of the redenominated currency is less than the original euros when translated into the carrying amounts. It is not possible to predict what the total consequential loss might be as it is uncertain which assets and liabilities would be legally re-denominated or what the extent of the devaluation would be. However, in order to provide an indication of one part of the possible exposure, the table below identifies assets and liabilities booked in our banking operations in Greece, Italy and Spain (described as ‘in-country’). These assets and liabilities predominantly comprise loans and deposits arising from our commercial banking operations in these countries. The net assets represent our net funding exposure to those countries which we consider most likely to be affected by a redenomination event. The table also identifies in-country off-balance sheet exposures as these are at risk of redenomination should they be called, giving 201 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) rise to a balance sheet exposure. It is to be noted that this analysis can only be an indication as it does not include euro-denominated exposures booked by HSBC outside the countries at risk which are connected with those countries (see ‘external contracts’ below). External contracts redenomination risk: contracts entered into between HSBC businesses based outside a country exiting the euro with in-country counterparties or those otherwise closely connected with the relevant country, may be affected by redenomination. The effect remains subject to a high level of uncertainty. Factors such as the country law under which the contract is documented, the HSBC entity involved and the payment mechanism may all be relevant to this assessment, as will the precise exit scenario as the consequences for external contracts of a disorderly exit or one sanctioned under EU law may be different. In addition, capital controls could be introduced which may affect the ability to repatriate funds including currencies not affected by the redenomination event. We continue to identify and monitor potential redenomination risks and, where possible, take steps to mitigate them and/or reduce our overall exposure to losses that might arise in the event of a redenomination. We continue to emphasise, however, that a euro exit could take different forms in a number of different scenarios. These give rise to distinct legal consequences which could significantly alter the potential effectiveness of any steps taken, and it is accordingly not possible to predict how effective particular measures may be until they are tested against the precise circumstances of a redenomination event. In-country funding exposure (Unaudited) Denominated in: euros US$bn US dollarsUS$bn other currenciesUS$bn Total US$bn At 31 December 2012 Greece In-country assets 2.1 0.1 – 2.2 In-country liabilities (1.5 ) (0.8 ) (0.1 ) (2.4 ) Net in-country funding exposure 0.6 (0.7 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Off-balance sheet exposure (0.3 ) 0.2 0.2 0.1 Italy In-country assets 1.0 – – 1.0 In-country liabilities38 (2.0 ) – – (2.0 ) Net in-country funding exposure (1.0 ) – – (1.0 ) Off-balance sheet exposure 0.8 – – 0.8 Spain In-country assets 2.4 0.8 – 3.2 In-country liabilities (1.7 ) (0.1 ) – (1.8 ) Net in-country funding exposure 0.7 0.7 – 1.4 Off-balance sheet exposure 0.7 0.2 – 0.9 At 31 December 2011 Greece In-country assets 2.9 2.2 0.1 5.2 In-country liabilities (2.1 ) (1.6 ) (0.1 ) (3.8 ) Net in-country funding exposure 0.8 0.6 – 1.4 Off-balance sheet exposure 0.2 – – 0.2 Italy In-country assets 2.1 – – 2.1 In-country liabilities38 (2.6 ) – – (2.6 ) Net in-country funding exposure (0.5 ) – – (0.5 ) Off-balance sheet exposure 0.8 – – 0.8 Spain In-country assets 4.4 0.6 0.1 5.1 In-country liabilities (1.7 ) (0.1 ) – (1.8 ) Net in-country funding exposure 2.7 0.5 0.1 3.3 Off-balance sheet exposure 2.4 0.5 – 2.9 For footnote, see page 249. 202 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Liquidity and funding Page App 1 Tables Page Liquidity and funding 261 Primary sources of funding 261 Liquidity and funding in 2012 204 Customer deposit markets 204 Wholesale funding market 205 Management of liquidity and funding risk 205 261 Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 261 Core deposits 262 Advances to core funding ratio 205 262 Advances to core funding ratios 205 Stressed coverage ratios 205 262 Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios 206 Stressed scenario analysis 262 Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating entities 206 263 Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal entities 207 Net contractual cash flows 207 Net cash flows for intrabank loans and intragroup deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions 208 Wholesale debt monitoring 264 Liquidity behaviouralisation 264 Contingent liquidity risk arising from committed lending facilities 208 265 Group’s contractual undrawn exposures monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure 209 Sources of funding 209 261 Funding sources and uses 210 Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 210 Funding of HSBC Finance 211 Encumbered and unencumbered assets 211 Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) 211 The effect of active collateral management 212 Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged for reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions 212 Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral received and pledged for derivative transactions 212 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets 212 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets 213 Additional contractual obligations 213 Additional information 214 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 214 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 215 Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk 265 HSBC Holdings 215 265 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 216 Liquidity regulation 216 1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices 203 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive cost. The risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows. There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of liquidity and funding risks in 2012. A summary of our current policies and practices regarding liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 261. Our liquidity and funding risk management framework The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to withstand very severe liquidity stresses. It is designed to be adaptable to changing business models, markets and regulations. Our liquidity and funding risk management framework requires: • liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a stand-alone basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or central banks; • all operating entities to comply with their limits for the advances to core funding ratio; and • all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash flow position out to three months under prescribed Group stress scenarios. Further details of the metrics are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 261. Liquidity and funding in 2012 (Unaudited) The liquidity position of the Group strengthened in 2012, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows of customer deposits and maintained good access to wholesale markets. During 2012, customer accounts grew by 7% (US$86bn) while loans and advances to customers increased by 6% (US$57bn), leading to a small decrease in our advances to deposits ratio to 74% (2011: 75%). HSBC UK (see footnote 40 on page 249) recorded an increase in its advances to core funding ratio to 106% at 31 December 2012 (2011: 100%). During 2012, HSBC UK continued to fund the majority of its growth in advances with growth in core deposits and remained within its advances to core funding limit. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (see footnote 41 on page 249) recorded a decrease in its advances to core funding ratio to 73% at 31 December 2012 (2011: 75%), mainly as a result of its core deposits increasing more than advances. The completion of the sale of the US cards business and branch network during 2012 improved the liquidity and funding position of both HSBC Finance and HSBC USA (see footnote 42 on page 249), the latter recording a decrease in its advances to core funding ratio to 78% as at 31 December 2012 (2011: 86%). Customer deposit markets Customer accounts increased by 7% year on year. After excluding repo balances, the year-on-year increase was 7%. Retail Banking and Wealth Management We continued to grow our RBWM customer accounts, which increased by 6%, by providing differentiated products and services to different segments. The growth in retail deposits benefited from the wider macroeconomic trend of expanded money supply, customer deleveraging and weak loan growth, which partially offset the competitive pressure in some of our key markets for retail deposits and savers’ reluctance to place funds into low-rate deposits. Global Private Banking As economic conditions remained subdued and interest rates continued to fall, part of the GPB customer base realigned its risk appetite and made use of the wide range of products available, with some asset reallocation to higher yielding off-balance sheet products including equities, funds and bonds. As a result, customer accounts decreased by 5% year on year. Commercial Banking Customer accounts increased by 11% year on year, with the majority of this increase resulting from increases in Payments and Cash Management accounts. The growth in these customer accounts and the strong growth in payment volumes demonstrated a funding source that is correlated to the operational services that HSBC provides to the CMB customer base. 204 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Global Banking and Markets Customer accounts increased by 8% year on year. After excluding repo balances with customers, GB&M deposits increased by 10% year on year, with the majority of this rise resulting from increases in Payments and Cash Management accounts. The growth in these customer accounts and the strong growth in payment volumes demonstrated a funding source that is strongly linked to the operational services that HSBC provides to the GB&M customer base. Wholesale funding markets Wholesale funding markets gradually improved during 2012, although the volume of term debt issued by banks was low by recent standards, influenced to a significant extent by reduced bank funding requirements. Globally, market conditions across public wholesale funding markets were predominantly driven by sovereign-related and more general events in the eurozone. HSBC continued to have good access to debt capital markets throughout 2012 with Group entities issuing US$10.5bn of public transactions of which US$9.8bn was senior unsecured debt. In January 2013 the Group repaid €5bn (US$6.6bn) of funding raised through the ECB’s Long Term Repo Operations (‘LTRO’), leaving only €473m (US$624m) outstanding. Management of liquidity and funding risk (Audited) Our liquidity and funding risk management framework (‘LFRF’) employs two key measures to define, monitor and control the liquidity and funding risk of each of our operating entities. The advances to core funding ratio is used to monitor the structural long-term funding position, and the stressed coverage ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress scenarios, is used to monitor the resilience to severe liquidity stresses. The three principal entities listed in the tables below represented 62% (2011: 61%) of the Group’s customer accounts (excluding repos). Including other principal entities, the percentage was 94% (2011: 96%). Advances to core funding ratio The table below shows the extent to which loans and advances to customers in our principal banking entities were financed by reliable and stable sources of funding. Advances to core funding limits set for operating entities at 31 December 2012 ranged between 70% and 115%, except for one operating entity reported within the total of HSBC’s other principal entities which operated with a limit of 125% during 2012. This limit has been reduced to 115% for 2013. Advances to core funding ratios39 (Audited) At 31 December 2012 % 2011 % HSBC UK40 Year-end 106 100 Maximum 106 103 Minimum 100 98 Average 103 101 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation41 Year-end 73 75 Maximum 75 79 Minimum 71 70 Average 73 76 HSBC USA42 Year-end 78 86 Maximum 86 90 Minimum 68 80 Average 78 85 Total of HSBC’s other principal entities43 Year-end 91 86 Maximum 92 90 Minimum 85 86 Average 88 89 For footnotes, see page 249. Stressed coverage ratios The stressed coverage ratios tabulated below express stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over both one-month and three-month time horizons. Operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months. Inflows included in the numerator of the stressed coverage ratio are those that are assumed to be generated from liquid assets net of assumed haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets contractually maturing within the time period. In general, customer advances are assumed to be renewed and as a result do not generate a cash inflow. 205 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios39 (Audited) Stressed one-month coverage ratios at 31 December Stressed three-month coverage Ratios at 31 December HSBC UK40 2012 % 2011 % 2012 % 2011 % Year-end 114 116 103 102 Maximum 117 118 103 102 Minimum 108 109 101 99 Average 112 113 102 100 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation41 Year-end 129 123 126 118 Maximum 134 145 126 126 Minimum 123 116 118 110 Average 129 124 123 116 HSBC USA42 Year-end 126 118 119 113 Maximum 137 128 130 122 Minimum 115 109 113 105 Average 127 119 123 116 Total of HSBC’s other principal entities43 Year-end 127 118 117 108 Maximum 127 120 117 113 Minimum 117 116 108 107 Average 121 118 111 109 For footnotes, see page 249. The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC UK remained broadly unchanged. The stressed coverage ratios for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation improved as the increase in core deposits exceeded the increase in loans and advances to customers. The resulting surplus was deployed in liquid assets, thereby improving the stressed coverage ratios. The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC USA improved as a result of the net effect of selling the US Card and Retail Services business and non-strategic branches during 2012, which resulted in a reduction in core deposits that was lower than the reduction in loans and advances to customers. The resulting surplus was deployed in liquid assets, thereby improving the stressed coverage ratios. The three-month stressed coverage ratio for the total of HSBC’s other principal entities remained broadly unchanged. The one-month stressed coverage ratio improved as a result of an increase in contractual maturities between one month and three months. Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating entities The table below shows the estimated liquidity value (before assumed haircuts) of assets categorised as liquid used for the purposes of calculating the three-month stressed coverage ratios, as defined under the LFRF. Any unencumbered asset held as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time period and unsecured interbank loans maturing within three months are not included in liquid assets, as these assets are reflected as contractual cash inflows. Liquid assets are held and managed on a standalone operating entity basis. Most of the liquid assets shown are held directly by each operating entity’s Balance Sheet Management function, primarily for the purpose of managing liquidity risk, in line with the LFRF. Liquid assets also include any unencumbered liquid assets held outside Balance Sheet Management for any other purpose. The LFRF gives ultimate control of all unencumbered assets and sources of liquidity to Balance Sheet Management. 206 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal entities Estimated liquidity value44 31 Dec 2012 Audited US$m 30 Jun 2012 Unaudited US$m 31 Dec 2011 Audited US$m HSBC UK40 Level 1 138,812 120,690 114,596 Level 2 374 475 344 Level 3 27,656 9,320 – Non-government assets – – 23,007 166,842 130,485 137,947 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation41 Level 1 112,167 104,943 107,056 Level 2 5,740 5,929 Level 3 3,968 4,889 – Non-government assets – – 2,151 121,875 115,761 109,207 HSBC USA42 Level 1 60,981 62,966 86,060 Level 2 15,609 16,511 1,369 Level 3 5,350 8,405 – Other 6,521 6,238 – Non-government assets – – 19,093 88,461 94,120 106,522 Total of HSBC’s other principal entities43 Level 1 154,445 118,616 138,085 Level 2 18,048 36,713 2,827 Level 3 6,468 11,205 – Other 2,447 – – Non-government assets – – 23,584 181,408 166,534 164,496 For footnotes, see page 249. Our liquid asset policy was refined at 1 January 2012 to apply a more granular classification of liquid assets, as described in the Appendix to Risk on page 261. Under the previous framework, liquid assets were classified into two categories: central government, central bank and US agency MBS exposures; and all other non-government exposures. Central government, central bank and US agency MBS exposures qualify as Level 1 or Level 2 under the new policy and are shown as such in the comparatives. All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio are unencumbered. Liquid assets held by HSBC UK increased as a result of a rise in customer accounts, which led to an increase in the level of non-core deposits and, consequently, liquid assets. Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation also rose as a result of an increase in customer accounts. As the growth in core deposits exceeded the increases in loans and advances to customers, the difference was deployed into liquid assets and the level of liquid assets held grew accordingly. Liquid assets held by HSBC USA decreased as a result of the sale of the US Card and Retail Services business and non-strategic branches during 2012. Net contractual cash flows The following table quantifies the contractual cash flows from interbank and intergroup loans and deposits, and reverse repo, repo (including intergroup transactions) and short positions for the principal entities shown. These contractual cash inflows and outflows are reflected gross in the numerator and denominator, respectively, of the one and three-month stressed coverage ratios and should be considered alongside the level of liquid assets. Outflows included in the denominator of the stressed coverage ratios include the principal outflows associated with the contractual maturity of wholesale debt securities reported in the table headed ‘Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities’ on page 210. 207 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Net cash inflows/(outflows) for interbank and intragroup loans and deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions (Audited) At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Cash flows within one month US$m Cash flows from one to three monthsUS$m Cash flows within one month US$m Cash flows from one to three monthsUS$m Interbank and intragroup loans and deposits HSBC UK40 (16,464 ) (1,429 ) (12,832 ) 446 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation41 4,402 9,685 8,715 9,246 HSBC USA42 (30,269 ) (473 ) (32,154 ) 213 Total of HSBC’s other principal entities43 5,419 10,511 14,053 2,589 Reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short positions (including intragroup) HSBC UK40 (4,184 ) (13,776 ) (558 ) (171 ) The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation41 13,672 2,501 7,393 (487 ) HSBC USA42 (4,003 ) 62 (3,872 ) (377 ) Total of HSBC’s other principal entities43 (31,951 ) (231 ) (6,597 ) 10,162 For footnotes, see page 249. Net cash flow arising from interbank and intragroup loans and deposits Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three months arising from interbank and intragroup loans and deposits will give rise to a lower liquid asset requirement. Conversely, a net cash outflow within three months arising from interbank and intragroup loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid assets requirement. Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short positions (including intragroup) A net cash inflow represents additional liquid resources, in addition to liquid assets, because any unencumbered asset held as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time period is not reflected as a liquid asset. The impact of net cash outflow depends on whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a result will qualify as a liquid asset when released at the maturity of the repo. The majority of the Group’s repo transactions are collateralised by liquid assets and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from the liquid asset table above. Contingent liquidity risk arising from committed lending facilities (Audited) The Group’s operating entities provide commitments to various counterparts. In terms of liquidity risk, the most significant risk relates to committed lending facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to contingent liquidity risk, as these could be drawn during a period of liquidity stress. Commitments are given to customers and committed lending facilities are provided to consolidated multi-seller conduits, established to enable clients to access a flexible market-based source of finance (see page 209), consolidated securities investment conduits and third-party sponsored conduits. The consolidated securities investment conduits primarily represent Solitaire and Mazarin (see pages 186). These conduits issue asset-backed commercial paper secured against the portfolio of securities held by these conduits. At 31 December 2012, HSBC UK had undrawn committed lending facilities to these conduits of US$18bn (2011: US$22bn, of which Solitaire represented US$13bn (2011: US$16bn) and the remaining US$5.1bn (2011: US$6.2bn) pertained to Mazarin. At 31 December 2012, the commercial paper issued by Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC 208 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) UK. Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio of securities held by these conduits, no contingent liquidity risk exposure arises as a result of these undrawn committed lending facilities. The table below shows the level of undrawn commitments to customers outstanding for the five largest single facilities and the largest market sector, and the extent to which they are undrawn. The Group’s contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure (Audited) HSBC UK HSBC USA HSBC Canada The Hongkong andShanghai BankingCorporation 2012US$bn 2011US$bn 2012US$bn 2011US$bn 2012US$bn 2011US$bn 2012US$bn 2011US$bn Commitments to conduits Consolidated multi-seller conduits – total lines 7.8 11.4 2.3 0.9 1.0 0.7 – – – largest individual lines 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.5 – – Consolidated securities investment conduits – total lines 18.1 22.1 – – – – – – Third party conduits – total lines – – 0.8 1.4 – – – – Commitments to customers – five largest45 6.0 3.4 6.0 5.7 1.7 1.8 2.1 1.9 – largest market sector46 11.0 7.5 7.5 6.5 4.5 3.8 2.4 2.5 For footnotes, see page 249. Sources of funding (Audited) Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice. We issue wholesale securities (secured and unsecured) to supplement our customer deposits and change the currency mix, maturity profile or location of our liabilities. The funding sources and uses table, which provides a consolidated view of how our balance sheet is funded, should be read in the light of the LFRF, which requires operating entities to manage liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone basis. The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet according to the assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the sources of funding primarily supporting these activities. The assets and liabilities that do not arise from operating activities are presented as a net balancing source or deployment of funds. The level of customer accounts continued to exceed the level of loans and advances to customers. Excluding the effect of repos from customer accounts and reverse repos from loans and advances to customers, the adjusted advances to deposits ratio at 31 December 2012 was 73.4% (2011: 73.5%). The positive funding gap was predominantly deployed into liquid assets; cash and balances with central banks and financial investments, as required by the LFRF. Loans and other receivables due from banks continued to exceed deposits taken from banks. The Group remained a net unsecured lender to the banking sector. 209 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Funding sources and uses (Audited) 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Sources Customer accounts 1,340,014 1,253,925 – repos 28,618 30,785 – cash deposits 1,311,396 1,223,140 Deposits by banks 107,429 112,822 – repos 11,949 17,617 – cash deposits 95,480 95,205 Debt securities issued 119,461 131,013 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 5,018 22,200 Subordinated liabilities 29,479 30,606 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 87,720 85,724 Liabilities under insurance contracts 68,195 61,259 Trading liabilities 304,563 265,192 – repos 130,223 86,838 – stock lending 6,818 4,595 – other trading liabilities 167,522 173,759 Total equity 183,129 166,093 2,245,008 2,128,834 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Uses Loans and advances to customers 997,623 940,429 – reverse repos 34,651 41,419 – loans or other receivables 962,972 899,010 Loans and advances to banks 152,546 180,987 – reverse repos 35,461 41,909 – loans or other receivables 117,085 139,078 Assets held for sale 19,269 39,558 Trading assets 408,811 330,451 – reverse repos 118,681 79,848 – stock borrowing 16,071 9,459 – other trading assets 274,059 241,144 Financial investments 421,101 400,044 Cash and balances with central banks 141,532 129,902 Net deployment in other balance sheet assets and liabilities 104,126 107,463 2,245,008 2,128,834 Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities (Unaudited) On demand US$m Due within 3 monthsUS$m Due within 3 to 12monthsUS$m Total due within 1 yearUS$m Due between 1 and 5 years US$m Due after 5 years US$m Total US$m At 31 December 2012 Debt securities issued 2,419 41,139 50,697 94,255 97,198 31,217 222,670 Unsecured CDs and CP – 22,158 10,125 32,283 5,344 – 37,627 Unsecured senior MTNs 1 6,306 33,363 39,670 68,949 23,478 132,097 Unsecured senior structured notes 2,234 1,329 3,978 7,541 6,942 5,325 19,808 Secured covered bonds – 51 2,467 2,518 8,840 542 11,900 Secured ABCP – 10,358 – 10,358 – – 10,358 Secured ABS 16 782 646 1,444 4,557 707 6,708 Others 168 155 118 441 2,566 1,165 4,172 Subordinated liabilities 7 838 1,864 2,709 14,641 77,930 95,280 Subordinated debt securities 7 573 1,509 2,089 12,625 57,503 72,217 Preferred securities – 265 355 620 2,016 20,427 23,063 2,426 41,977 52,561 96,964 111,839 109,147 317,950 210 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) On demandUS$m Due within 3 monthsUS$m Due within 3 to 12monthsUS$m Total due within 1 yearUS$m Due between 1 and 5 yearsUS$m Due after 5 yearsUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2011 Debt securities issued 1,907 49,923 39,011 90,841 104,689 37,028 232,558 Unsecured CDs and CP 280 28,918 8,143 37,341 9,713 26 47,080 Unsecured senior MTNs 122 3,704 26,541 30,367 80,884 29,081 140,332 Unsecured senior structured notes 1,505 575 1,858 3,938 1,878 1,156 6,972 Secured covered bonds – 607 1,549 2,156 7,649 3,694 13,499 Secured ABCP – 10,446 – 10,446 – – 10,446 Secured ABS – 326 546 872 3,071 1,779 5,722 Others – 5,347 374 5,721 1,494 1,292 8,507 Subordinated liabilities 6 913 6,004 6,923 15,134 78,569 100,626 Subordinated debt securities 6 694 5,552 6,252 12,908 58,051 77,211 Preferred securities – 219 452 671 2,226 20,518 23,415 1,913 50,836 45,015 97,764 119,823 115,597 333,184 The balances in the table above will not agree directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments. Funding of HSBC Finance We do not expect the professional markets to be a source of funding for HSBC Finance in the future in view of the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and the run-off of its remaining portfolio. HSBC Finance expects to meet future funding needs by asset sales and affiliate funding. As a consequence, no new external third-party funding, including commercial paper, is being originated by HSBC Finance. Encumbered and unencumbered assets (Unaudited) The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate an understanding of available and unrestricted assets that could be used to support potential future funding and collateral needs. An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result is no longer available to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding requirement. An asset is therefore categorised as unencumbered if it has not been pledged against an existing liability. Unencumbered assets are then further analysed into four separate sub-categories; ‘readily realisable assets’, ‘other realisable assets’, ‘reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets’ and ‘cannot be pledged as collateral’. The disclosure is not designed to identify assets which would be available to meet the claims of creditors or to predict assets that would be available to creditors in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy. The table below summarises the total on and off-balance sheet assets that are capable of supporting future funding and collateral needs and shows the extent to which these assets are currently pledged for this purpose. Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) (Unaudited) 2012 US$bn Total on-balance sheet assets 2,693 Less: Reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets 562 Other assets that cannot be pledged as collateral 247 Total on-balance sheet assets that can support funding and collateral needs 1,884 Add off-balance sheet assets: Fair value of collateral received from reverse repo/stock borrowing that is available to sell or repledge 296 Fair value of collateral received from derivatives that is available to sell or repledge 6 Total assets that can support funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) 2,186 Less: On-balance sheet assets pledged 233 Off-balance sheet collateral received from reverse repo/stock borrowing which has been repledged or sold 203 Off-balance sheet collateral received from derivative transactions which has been repledged or sold 1 Assets available to support funding and collateral needs 1,749 211 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) At 31 December 2012, the Group held US$1,749bn of unencumbered assets that could be used to support potential future funding and collateral needs, representing 80% of the total assets that can support funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet). Of this amount, US$764bn (US$666bn on-balance sheet) were assessed to be readily realisable. The effect of active collateral management Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, consistent with the operating entity management of liquidity and funding. The available collateral held by each operating entity is managed as a single collateral pool. In managing this collateral and deciding which collateral to pledge, each operating entity will seek to optimise the use of the available collateral pool, within the confines of the LFRF, irrespective of whether the collateral pledged is recognised on-balance sheet or was received in respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivative transactions. As a result of managing collateral in this manner, in terms of asset encumbrance presentation, we may encumber on-balance sheet holdings while maintaining available unencumbered off-balance sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings pledged. In quantifying the level of encumbrance of negotiable securities, the encumbrance has been analysed on an individual security basis. In doing so where a particular security has been encumbered and HSBC has holdings of the security both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet with the right to repledge, it is assumed for the purpose of this disclosure that the off-balance sheet holding is encumbered ahead of the on-balance sheet holding. An on balance-sheet encumbered and off-balance sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for example, if we receive a specific security as a result of a reverse repo/stock borrow transaction, but finance the cash lent by pledging a generic collateral basket, even if the security received is eligible for the collateral basket pledged. This will also occur if we receive a generic collateral basket as a result of a reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by pledging specific securities, even if the securities pledged are eligible for the collateral basket. Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged for reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was US$296bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$302bn). The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$203bn (2011: US$189bn). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions. The fair value of collateral received and repledged in relation to reverse repo and stock borrowing are reported on a gross basis. The related balance sheet receivables and payables are reported on a net basis where required under IFRS netting criteria. As a result of reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions where the collateral received can be sold or re-pledged, but has not been sold or re-pledged, we held US$93bn of unencumbered collateral available to support potential future funding and collateral needs at 31 December 2012. Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral received and pledged for derivative transactions The fair value of assets accepted as collateral related to derivative transactions that we are permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was US$6.0bn. The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$0.8bn. We are obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to derivative transactions. Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets The table on page 213 presents an analysis of on-balance sheet holdings only, and shows the amounts of balance sheet assets that are encumbered. The table therefore excludes any available off-balance sheet holdings received in respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivatives. 212 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets (Unaudited) Encumbered Unencumbered Unencumbered – cannot be pledged as collateral Assets pledged as collateral Readily realisable assets Other realisable assets Reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables & derivative assets Cannot be pledged as collateral Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Cash and balances at central banks – 139,963 220 – 1,349 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks – – – – 7,303 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness – – – – 22,743 22,743 Trading assets 143,019 116,395 10,330 134,752 4,315 408,811 – Treasury and other eligible bills 2,309 23,973 – – – 26,282 – debt securities 97,157 47,311 205 – 4 144,677 – equity securities 5,592 35,420 622 – – 41,634 – loans and advances to banks 20,588 1,909 2,582 50,376 2,816 78,271 – loans and advances to customers 17,373 7,782 6,921 84,376 1,495 117,947 Financial assets designated at fair value – 447 610 – 32,525 33,582 – Treasury and other eligible bills – 14 – – 40 54 – debt securities – 431 128 – 11,992 12,551 – equity securities – 2 482 – 20,384 20,868 – loans and advances to banks – – – – 55 55 – loans and advances to customers – – – – 54 54 Derivatives – – – 357,450 – 357,450 Loans and advances to banks 1,191 4,722 81,802 35,461 29,370 152,546 Loans and advances to customers 40,792 85,626 827,903 34,664 8,638 997,623 Financial investments 46,678 300,255 7,990 – 66,178 421,101 – Treasury and other eligible bills 2,024 84,991 156 – 379 87,550 – debt securities 44,654 214,545 4,112 – 64,451 327,762 – equity securities – 719 3,722 – 1,348 5,789 Assets held for sale – – 19,269 – – 19,269 Other assets 1,600 18,601 11,621 – 22,894 54,716 Current tax assets – – – – 515 515 Prepayments and accrued income – – – – 9,502 9,502 Interest in associates and joint ventures – – 17,480 – 354 17,834 Goodwill and intangible assets – – – – 29,853 29,853 Property, plant and equipment – – 6,772 – 3,816 10,588 Deferred tax – – – – 7,570 7,570 233,280 666,009 983,997 562,327 246,925 2,692,538 Cash collateral posted to satisfy margin requirements on derivatives, is reported as encumbered under trading assets within loans or advances to banks and loans and advances to customers. The US$41bn of loans and advances to customers reported in the table above as encumbered have been pledged predominantly to support the issuance of secured debt instruments, such as covered bonds and ABSs including asset-backed commercial paper issued by consolidated multi-seller conduits. It also includes those pledged in relation to any other form of secured borrowing. In total, the Group has pledged US$152bn of negotiable securities, predominantly as a result of market-making in securities financing to our clients. Additional contractual obligations Under the terms of our current collateral obligations under derivative contracts, we estimate based on the positions as at 31 December 2012 that HSBC could be required to post additional collateral of up to US$1.5bn (2011: US$3bn) in the event of a one notch downgrade in credit ratings, which would increase to US$2.5bn (2011: US$3.8bn) in the event of a two notch downgrade. 213 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Definitions of the categories included in the table ‘Analysis of encumbered and unencumbered assets’: • Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements. • Unencumbered – readily realisable assets are assets regarded by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes. • Unencumbered – other realisable assets are assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form. • Unencumbered – reverse repo/stock borrow receivables and derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions. These are shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged, but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet additional collateral requirements or be sold. • Unencumbered – cannot be pledged as collateral are assets that have not been pledged but which we have assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, for example assets held by the Group’s insurance subsidiaries that back liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these entities. Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after three months, even though they may currently be realisable. This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite not to place any reliance on central banks. In a few cases, we have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant. As a result, we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to customers and banks in the category ‘Other realisable assets’ as management would need to perform additional actions in order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable. Additional information The amount of such assets reported in Note 36 on the Financial Statements may be greater than the book value of assets reported as being encumbered in the table on page 213. Examples of where such differences will occur are: • ABSs and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued plus the required mandatory over-collateralisation is lower than the book value of assets pledged to the pool. Any difference is categorised in the table above as ‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets;’ • negotiable securities held by custodians or settlement agents, where a floating charge has been given over the entire holding to secure intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported as encumbered to the extent that we have a liability to the custodian or settlement agent at the reporting date, with the balance reported as ‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets;’ and • assets pre-positioned with central banks or government agencies are only reported as encumbered to the extent that we have secured funding with the collateral. The unutilised pre-positioned collateral is reported as ‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets.’ Contractual maturity of financial liabilities (Audited) The balances in the table below will not agree directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ time bucket and not by contractual maturity. A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue included in trading liabilities is presented on page 485. In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be called. 214 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities (Audited) On demand US$m Due within 3 months US$m Due between 3 and 12 months US$m Due between 1 and 5 years US$m Due after 5 years US$m At 31 December 2012 Deposits by banks 45,290 51,321 4,495 11,718 789 Customer accounts 1,035,636 229,642 62,650 17,508 720 Trading liabilities 304,564 – – – – Financial liabilities designated at fair value 7,778 1,211 7,825 42,683 62,279 Derivatives 351,367 355 995 4,785 1,855 Debt securities in issue 64 37,938 37,167 45,433 6,034 Subordinated liabilities 7 386 1,149 9,058 46,322 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale47 1,416 993 707 201 24 Other financial liabilities 26,963 31,557 5,381 3,467 829 1,773,085 353,403 120,369 134,853 118,852 Loan and other credit-related commitments 375,818 76,394 51,330 57,506 18,421 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 14,321 5,506 12,104 9,266 3,796 2,163,224 435,303 183,803 201,625 141,069 At 31 December 2011 Deposits by banks 47,659 59,096 3,578 11,048 997 Customer accounts 914,762 252,226 72,993 20,508 1,094 Trading liabilities 265,192 – – – – Financial liabilities designated at fair value 7,066 930 9,789 39,915 57,295 Derivatives 340,394 394 497 2,858 1,007 Debt securities in issue 117 48,465 27,520 57,507 7,019 Subordinated liabilities 6 528 1,834 9,616 47,715 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale47 3,108 1,721 1,045 211 150 Other financial liabilities 25,452 28,137 5,845 2,023 1,377 1,603,756 391,497 123,101 143,686 116,654 Loan and other credit-related commitments 355,366 65,245 94,120 111,061 29,113 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 12,460 7,585 12,107 5,899 1,273 1,971,582 464,327 229,328 260,646 147,040 For footnote, see page 249. HSBC Holdings (Audited) During 2012, HSBC Holdings issued US$2.0bn of senior debt (2011: US$5.3bn). The eligibility requirements for non-equity instruments under Basel III rules have not been clearly defined in the UK, so HSBC Holdings issued no debt instruments which qualified as capital in 2012 (2011: nil). The balances in the table below will not agree directly with those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their contractual maturities. Derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ time bucket. In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be called. 215 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities (Audited) On demand Due within 3 months Due between 3 and 12 months Due between 1 and 5 years Due after 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 3,032 604 1,096 1,918 7,570 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 269 807 5,345 31,970 Derivatives 760 – – – – Debt securities in issue – 36 107 1,946 1,487 Subordinated liabilities – 205 614 3,273 25,049 Other financial liabilities – 394 211 – – 3,792 1,508 2,835 12,482 66,076 Loan commitments 1,200 – – – – Financial guarantees and similar contracts 49,402 – – – – 54,394 1,508 2,835 12,482 66,076 At 31 December 2011 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings – 1,110 81 1,428 – Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 281 3,530 4,987 28,988 Derivatives 1,067 – – – – Debt securities in issue – 35 104 1,975 1,490 Subordinated liabilities – 216 649 3,461 27,558 Other financial liabilities – 1,252 208 – – 1,067 2,894 4,572 11,851 58,036 Loan commitments 1,810 – – – – Financial guarantees and similar contracts 49,402 – – – – 52,279 2,894 4,572 11,851 58,036 Liquidity regulation (Unaudited) In December 2010, the Basel Committee published the ‘International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring’. The framework comprises two liquidity metrics: the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and the net stable funding ratio (‘NSFR’). The ratios are subject to an observation period that began in 2011, and are expected to become established standards by 2015 and 2018, respectively. During the observation period, the standards are under review by the Basel Committee. In January 2013, the Basel Committee announced several changes to the calibration of the LCR which included reducing the outflow applied to non-operational non-financial corporate deposits from 75% to 40% and reducing the outflow applied to committed liquidity facilities from 100% to 30%. A significant level of interpretation is required applying the definitions as currently drafted, in particular, the definition of operational deposits. Uncertainty around LCR also arises from the fact that the implementation of the Basel LCR framework still requires EU endorsement. In addition, the final calibration of the NSFR is highly uncertain and is expected to remain so, with no announcement on this expected from the Basel Committee until 2014. 216 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk Page App1 Tables Page Market risk in 2012 218 Overview of market risk in global businesses 265 Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 265 Sensitivity analysis 266 Value at risk and stressed value at risk 266 Stress testing 267 Trading and non-trading portfolios 218 Types of risk by global business 218 Overview of risk reporting 218 Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet 219 Market risk reporting measures 218 Value at risk of the trading and non-trading portfolios 219 Trading and non-trading value at risk 219 Daily trading and non-trading VAR 219 Trading portfolios 220 268 Value at risk of the trading portfolios 220 Trading value at risk 220 Daily VAR (trading portfolios) 220 Daily revenue 220 Daily distribution of Global Markets’ trading and other trading revenues 220 VAR by risk type for trading activities 220 Stressed value at risk (1-day equivalent) 221 Stressed value at risk of the trading portfolio 221 Gap risk 268 ABS/MBS exposures 268 Non-trading portfolios 221 268 Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios 221 Non-trading value at risk 221 Daily VAR (non-trading portfolios) 221 Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt securities 221 268 Equity securities classified as available for sale 222 Fair value of equity securities 222 Structural foreign exchange exposures 222 268 Non-trading interest rate risk 222 Balance Sheet Management 222 Analysis of third party assets in Balance Sheet Management 223 Sensitivity of net interest income 223 269 Sensitivity of projected net interest income 223 Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 224 Defined benefit pension schemes 224 269 HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes 224 Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company 224 270 Foreign exchange risk 225 HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VAR 225 Sensitivity of net interest income 225 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements 225 Interest rate repricing gap table 226 Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings 226 1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 217 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our portfolios. There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of market risk in 2012. A summary of our current policies and practices regarding market risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 265. Exposure to market risk Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: • Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions. • Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations (see page 239). Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite. We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures, including: • sensitivity measures include sensitivity of net interest income and sensitivity for structural foreign exchange, which are used to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type; • value at risk (‘VAR’) is a technique that estimates the potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence; and • in recognition of VAR’s limitations we augment VAR with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. Examples of scenarios reflecting current market concerns are the slowdown of mainland China and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects. Market risk in 2012 (Audited) Some credit spread and interest rate exposures to sovereign borrowers were managed down during 2012 against the backdrop of continued concerns around eurozone sovereigns and financial institutions, the global economic slowdown and uncertainty about fiscal policy in the US. The second half of the year was characterised by improved market sentiment, primarily because the ECB pledged to support the euro. This led to a more benign market environment and generally subdued volatilities of credit spreads and other market risk factors. Trading and non-trading portfolios (Audited) The following tables provide an overview of the types of risks within the different global businesses. Types of risk by global business Risk types Global businesses Trading risk GB&M including Balance – Foreign exchange and commodities Sheet Management (‘BSM’) – Interest rate – Equities – Credit spread Non-trading risk GB&M including BSM, – Foreign exchange (structural) RBWM, CMB and GPB – Interest rate – Credit spread The market risk for insurance operations is reported separately on page 239. Market risk reporting measures The following table provides an overview of the reporting of risks within this section: Overview of risk reporting Portfolio Trading Non-trading Risk type Foreign exchange and commodity VAR VAR Interest rate VAR VAR/Sensitivity Equity VAR Sensitivity Credit spread VAR VAR Structural foreign exchange n/a Sensitivity Structural foreign exchange risk is monitored using sensitivity analysis (see page 268). The reporting of commodity risk is consolidated with foreign exchange risk. There is no commodity risk in the non-trading portfolios. The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VAR. The management of this risk is described on page 270. 218 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet Trading assets and liabilities The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in substantially all cases originated by GB&M. As described on page 393, the assets and liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. These assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are linked to other non-trading related activities such as loan origination. Financial assets designated at fair value Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are predominantly held within the Insurance entities. The majority of these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either unit-linked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF. Further information in respect of these assets is given on page 393. The risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on a non-trading basis. Market risk for insurance operations is covered on page 239. Financial liabilities designated at fair value Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for funding purposes. As described on page 393, an accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities were accounted for at amortised cost because the derivatives which economically hedge market risks on the securities would be accounted for at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement. The market risks of these liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the principal risks being interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks. We also incur liabilities to customers under investment contracts, where the liabilities on unit-linked contracts are based on the fair value of assets within the unit-linked funds. The exposures on these funds are treated as non-traded risk and the principal risks are those of the underlying assets in the funds. Derivative assets and liabilities As described in Note 19 on the Financial Statements HSBC undertakes derivative activity for three primary purposes; to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks. Most of HSBC’s derivative exposures arise from sales and trading activities within GB&M and are treated as traded risk for market risk management purposes. Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis and are treated as non-traded risk for VAR measurement purposes. These arise when the derivative was entered into in order to manage risk arising from non-traded exposures. These include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, and derivatives qualifying for fair value and cash flow hedge accounting. The use of non-qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest rate and foreign exchange exposure is described on page 397. Details of derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge accounting relationships are given in Note 19 on the Financial Statements. HSBC’s primary risks in respect of these instruments relate to interest rate and foreign exchange risks. Loans and advances to customers The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to customers is the credit risk of the borrower. The risk of these assets is treated as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes. Financial investments Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale and held-to-maturity basis. An analysis of the Group’s holdings of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is shown on page 457 and by business activity on page 20. The majority of these securities are mainly held within Balance Sheet Management in GB&M. The positions which are originated in order to manage structural interest rate and liquidity risk are treated as non-trading risk for the purposes of market risk management. Available-for-sale security holdings within insurance entities are treated as non-trading risk and are largely held to back non-linked insurance policyholder liabilities. Market risk for insurance operations is covered on page 239. The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the ABSs within GB&M’s legacy credit business, which are treated as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor. The Group’s held-to-maturity securities are principally held within the Insurance business. Risks of held-to-maturity assets are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes. Value at risk of the trading and non-trading portfolios Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was as tabulated below. For a description of HSBC’s fair value and price verification controls, see page 438. Trading and non-trading value at risk (Audited) 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 31 December 181.3 367.0 Average 244.4 301.6 Minimum 163.8 231.5 Maximum 383.9 404.3 Daily trading and non-trading VAR (US$m) (Unaudited) The decrease of Group trading and non-trading VAR during 2012 was driven primarily by the reduced effect of credit spreads, as a result of subdued volatilities and lower credit spread baselines utilised in the VAR calculations. 219 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) For a description of the parameters used in calculating VAR, see the ‘Appendix to Risk’ on page 266. Trading portfolios (Audited) Value at risk of the trading portfolios Our Group trading VAR was as shown below: Trading value at risk 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 31 December 78.8 118.3 Average 74.2 101.8 Minimum 47.3 62.2 Maximum 130.9 143.9 Almost all trading VAR resides within Global Markets. The VAR for trading activity at 31 December 2012 was lower than at 31 December 2011 due primarily to the reduced contribution of credit spread exposures to sovereigns. This reduction was driven by positions being managed down, together with the lower credit spread volatilities and baselines in the VAR calculations. We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers. We expect on average to see losses in excess of VAR 1% of the time over a one-year period. The actual number of losses in excess of VAR over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing. In 2012, there were no exceptions at the Group level. Daily VAR (trading portfolios) (US$m) Daily revenue (Unaudited) (Unaudited) 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Average daily revenue 31.8 27.3 Standard deviation48 22.8 32.3 Ranges of most frequent – daily revenues 20 to 30 20 to 30 days days – daily occurrences 60 41 Days of negative revenue 8 40 Daily distribution of Global Markets’ trading and other trading revenues49 (Unaudited) 2012 2011 Number of days Number of days Revenues (US$m) Revenues (US$m) n Profit and loss frequency n Profit and loss frequency For footnotes, see page 249. VAR by risk type for trading activities50 (Audited) Foreign exchange and commodity Interest rate Equity Credit spread Portfolio diversification51 Total52 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 20.5 37.5 17.7 16.1 (12.9 ) 78.8 Average 23.5 42.7 9.3 26.8 (28.1 ) 74.2 Minimum 6.9 29.5 2.7 12.2 – 47.3 Maximum 46.0 60.0 24.9 77.9 – 130.9 220 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Foreign exchange and commodity Interest rate Equity Credit spread Portfolio diversification51 Total52 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2011 18.6 49.4 7.4 75.2 (32.3 ) 118.3 Average 16.8 54.2 8.0 57.3 (34.4 ) 101.8 Minimum 7.6 30.1 2.5 34.7 – 62.2 Maximum 31.9 80.2 17.2 103.2 – 143.9 For footnotes, see page 249. Stressed value at risk of the trading portfolios (Unaudited) Stressed VAR is primarily used for regulatory capital purposes but is integrated into the risk management process to facilitate efficient capital management and to highlight potentially risky positions based on previous market volatility. Our Group stressed VAR for trading portfolios was as follows: Stressed value at risk (1-day equivalent) (Unaudited) 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 31 December 172.4 293.6 Stressed VAR for trading portfolios reduced primarily as a result of the de-risking of exposures to eurozone sovereigns and managing down of interest rate risks, together with the impact of lower credit spread levels on the VAR calculation. Non-trading portfolios (Audited) Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios Non-trading value at risk 2012 2011 US$m US$m At 31 December 119.2 310.9 Average 197.9 244.2 Minimum 118.1 182.2 Maximum 322.5 354.8 The daily levels of non-trading VAR over the course of 2012 are set out in the graph below. Daily VAR (non-trading portfolios) (US$m) (Unaudited) Most of the Group non-trading VAR relates to Balance Sheet Management (‘BSM’) or local treasury management functions. Contributions to Group non-trading VAR are driven by interest rates and credit spread risks arising from all global businesses as illustrated on page 265). The decrease of non-trading VAR during 2012 was due primarily to the reduced contribution of credit spread risks as a result of lower volatilities and credit spread baselines utilised in the VAR calculations. This movement includes the reduction in credit spread risks relating to the Group’s holdings of available for sale debt securities (excluding those held in insurance operations), which is discussed further in the following section. Non-trading VAR also includes the interest rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held by the global businesses and transferred into portfolios managed by Global Markets or local treasury functions. In measuring, monitoring and managing risk in our non-trading portfolios, VAR is just one of the tools used. The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is described further in ‘Non-trading interest rate risk’ below, including the role of Balance Sheet Management. Non-trading VAR excludes equity risk on available for sale securities, structural foreign exchange risk, and interest rate risk on fixed rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the management of which is described in the relevant sections below. These sections together describe the scope of HSBC’s management of market risks in non-trading books. Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt securities Credit spread VAR for available-for-sale debt securities, excluding those held in insurance operations, is included in the Group non-trading VAR. At 31 December 2012, the sensitivity of equity capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads on our available-for-sale debt securities, including the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within our balance sheet, based on credit spread VAR, was US$150m (2011: US$389m). This sensitivity was 221 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) calculated before taking into account losses which would have been absorbed by the capital note holders. Excluding the gross exposure for SICs consolidated in our balance sheet, this exposure reduced to US$119m (2011: US$325m). The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December 2012 compared with 31 December 2011 was due mainly to the effect of the lower volatility in credit spreads observed during 2012. At 31 December 2012, the capital note holders would absorb the first US$2.3bn (2011: US$2.3bn) of any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur any equity losses. Equity securities classified as available for sale Fair value of equity securities (Audited) 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Private equity holdings53 2.9 3.0 Funds invested for short-term cash management 0.2 0.2 Investment to facilitate ongoing business54 1.1 1.1 Other strategic investments 1.6 2.9 5.8 7.2 For footnotes, see page 249. The fair value of the constituents of equity securities classified as available for sale can fluctuate considerably. The table above sets out maximum possible loss on shareholder’s equity from available-for-sale equity securities. For details of the impairment incurred on available-for-sale equity securities, see ‘Securitisation exposures and other structured products’ on page 184. Structural foreign exchange exposures (Unaudited) Our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign exchange exposures are described on page 268. For details of structural foreign exchange exposures see Note 35 on the Financial Statements. Non-trading interest rate risk (Unaudited) Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) is responsible for measuring and controlling non-trading interest rate risk under the supervision of the Risk Management Meeting (‘RMM’). Its primary responsibilities are: • to define the rules governing the transfer of interest rate risk from the global businesses to BSM; • to ensure that all market interest rate risk that can be hedged is transferred from the global businesses to BSM; and • to define the rules and metrics for monitoring the residual interest rate risk in the global businesses. The different types of non-trading interest rate risk and the controls which we use to quantify and limit exposure to these risks can be categorised as follows: • risk which is transferred to BSM and managed by BSM within a defined risk mandate (see below); • risk which remains outside BSM because it cannot be hedged or which arises due to our behaviouralised transfer pricing assumptions. This risk is captured by our net interest income or Economic Value of Equity (‘EVE’) sensitivity and corresponding limits are part of our global and regional risk appetite statements for non-trading interest rate risk. A typical example would be margin compression created by unusually low rates in key currencies; • basis risk which is transferred to BSM when it can be hedged. Any residual basis risk remaining in the global businesses is reported to ALCO. A typical example would be a managed rate savings product transfer-priced using a Libor-based interest rate curve; and • model risks which cannot be captured by net interest income or EVE sensitivity, but are controlled by our stress testing framework. A typical example would be prepayment risk on residential mortgages or pipeline risk. Balance Sheet Management (Unaudited) Effective governance across BSM is supported by the dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M and to the Group Treasurer. In each operating entity, BSM is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local ALCO. It also manages the non-trading interest rate positions transferred to it within a Global Markets limit structure. BSM reinvests excess liquidity into highly rated liquid assets. The majority of the liquidity is invested in central bank deposits and government, supranational and agency securities with most of 222 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) the remainder held in short-term interbank and central bank loans. Analysis of third party assets in Balance Sheet Management (Unaudited) At 31 December2012 US$m Cash and balances at central banks 93,946 Trading assets 8,724 Financial assets designated at fair value 74 Loans and advances: – to banks 72,771 – to customers 22,052 Financial investments 293,421 Other 2,948 493,936 Central bank deposits are accounted for as cash balances. Interbank loans and loans to central banks are accounted for as loans and advances to banks. BSM’s holdings of securities are accounted for as available-for-sale or to a lesser extent, held to maturity assets. BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to manage interest rate risk. Derivative activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow hedging and fair value hedging relationships. Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited to short-term bank exposure created by interbank lending and exposure to central banks as well as high quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which constitute the majority of BSM’s liquidity portfolio. BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of any Group entity balance sheets. BSM is permitted to enter into single name and index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to manage credit risk on the exposure specific to its securities portfolio in limited circumstances only. The risk limits are extremely limited and closely monitored. At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 BSM had no open credit derivative index risk. VAR is calculated on both trading and non-trading positions held in BSM. It is calculated by applying the same methodology used for the Global Markets business and utilised as a tool for market risk control purposes. BSM holds trading portfolio instruments in only very limited circumstances. Positions and the associated VAR were not significant during 2012 and 2011. Sensitivity of net interest income (Unaudited) The table below sets out the effect on our future net interest income of an incremental 25 basis points parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2013. Assuming no management actions, a sequence of such rises would increase planned net interest income for 2013 by US$1,391m (2012: US$1,571m), while a sequence of such falls would decrease planned net interest income by US$1,471m (2012: US$1,909m). These figures incorporate the effect of any option features in the underlying exposures. Sensitivity of projected net interest income55 (Unaudited) US dollar bloc US$m Rest of Americas bloc US$m Hong Kong dollar bloc US$m Rest of Asia bloc US$m Sterling bloc US$m Euro bloc US$m Total US$m Change in 2013 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: +25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 133 64 246 237 679 44 1,403 –25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter (366 ) (52 ) (305 ) (168 ) (602 ) (57 ) (1,550 ) Change in 2012 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: +25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 209 62 263 232 729 76 1,571 –25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter (465 ) (59 ) (443 ) (166 ) (708 ) (68 ) (1,909 ) For footnote, see page 249. 223 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The interest rate sensitivities set out above are illustrative only and are based on simplified scenarios. The limitations of this analysis are discussed in the Appendix to Risk on page 269. The year-on-year change in the sensitivity of the Group’s net interest income to the change in rates shown in the table above is largely driven by lower implied yield curves, reducing the capacity to shock interest rates down. Net interest income and its associated sensitivity as reflected in the table above include the expense of internally funding trading assets, while related revenue is reported in ‘Net trading income’. We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by assessing the expected reduction in valuation of available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves. The table below describes the sensitivity of our reported reserves to these movements and the maximum and minimum month-end figures during the year: Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements (Unaudited) US$m Maximum impactUS$m Minimum impact US$m At 31 December 2012 + 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (5,602 ) (5,748 ) (5,166 ) As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (3.2% ) (3.3% ) (2.9 )%) – 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 4,996 5,418 4,734 As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity 2.9% 3.1% 2.7% At 31 December 2011 + 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (5,594 ) (6,178 ) (5,594 ) As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (3.5% ) (3.9% ) (3.5% ) – 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 5,397 6,411 5,397 As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity 3.4% 4.0% 3.4% The sensitivities above are illustrative only and are based on simplified scenarios. The table shows the potential sensitivity of reported reserves to valuation changes in available-for-sale portfolios and from cash flow hedges following the specified shifts in yield curves. These particular exposures form only a part of our overall interest rate exposures. The accounting treatment of our remaining interest rate exposures, while economically largely offsetting the exposures shown in the above table, does not require revaluation movements to go to reserves. Defined benefit pension schemes (Audited) Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes (Audited) 2012 2011 US$bn US$bn Liabilities (present value) 38.1 35.0 % % Assets: Equities 18 15 Debt securities 71 73 Other (including property) 11 12 100 100 For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension risk management, see page 269. Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company (Audited) The principal tools used in the management of market risk are VAR for foreign exchange rate risk, and the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest income to future changes in yield curves and interest rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate risk. 224 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Foreign exchange risk Total foreign exchange VAR arising within HSBC Holdings in 2012 was as follows: HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VAR (Audited) 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 31 December 69.9 47.7 Average 51.4 43.3 Minimum 39.2 38.2 Maximum 69.9 48.3 The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient and which are accounted for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings’ income statement. These loans, and most of the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis. Sensitivity of net interest income (Audited) HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk management appropriate to a financial services holding company. The table below sets out the effect on HSBC Holdings’ future net interest income over a 5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2013. Assuming no management actions, a sequence of such rises would increase planned net interest income for the next five years by US$532m (2011: decrease of US$269m), while a sequence of such falls would decrease planned net interest income by US$329m (2011: increase of US$248m). These figures incorporate the effect of any option features in the underlying exposures. Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest income to interest rate movements55 (Audited) US dollar bloc Sterling bloc Euro bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December arising from a shift in yield curves 2012 of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 83 (23 ) 4 64 2-3 years 303 (108 ) 37 232 4-5 years 319 (120 ) 37 236 of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year (34 ) 21 (2 ) (15 ) 2-3 years (139 ) 65 (17 ) (91 ) 4-5 years (306 ) 118 (35 ) (223 ) Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December arising from a shift in yield curves 2011 of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year (13 ) 11 4 2 2-3 years (161 ) 33 33 (95 ) 4-5 years (244 ) 21 47 (176 ) of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 14 (11 ) (4 ) (1 ) 2-3 years 127 (27 ) (27 ) 73 4-5 years 244 (21 ) (47 ) 176 For footnote, see page 249. The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above are illustrative only and are based on simplified scenarios. The figures represent hypothetical movements in net interest income based on our projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes to that profile during the next five years. The main driver of the change in the US dollar projected net interest income sensitivity was a change in the assumptions for projected capital funding. The change to the GBP projected net interest income sensitivity was caused by changes in the composition of HSBC Holdings’ investments. Changes to assumptions concerning the risk profile over the next five years can have a significant impact on the net interest income sensitivity for that period. However, the figures do not 225 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) take into account the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk. Interest rate repricing gap table The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis. The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches within HSBC Holdings’ balance sheet. Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings (Audited) Total Up to 1 year Between 1 and 5 years Between 5 and 10 years More than 10 years Non-interest bearing US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 353 312 – – – 41 Derivatives 3,768 – – – – 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 41,675 38,473 – 1,477 630 1,095 Financial investments 1,208 – 300 731 – 177 Investments in subsidiaries 92,234 – – – – 92,234 Other assets 246 – – – – 246 Total assets 139,484 38,785 300 2,208 630 97,561 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings (12,856 ) (12,259 ) – – – (597 ) Financial liabilities designated at fair values (23,195 ) (1,654 ) (6,334 ) (7,708 ) (4,301 ) (3,198 ) Derivatives (760 ) – – – – (760 ) Debt securities in issue (2,691 ) – (1,648 ) – (1,051 ) 8 Other liabilities (1,048 ) – – – – (1,048 ) Subordinated liabilities (11,907 ) – (808 ) (2,110 ) (8,828 ) (161 ) Total equity (87,027 ) – – – – (87,027 ) Total liabilities and equity (139,484 ) (13,913 ) (8,790 ) (9,818 ) (14,180 ) (92,783 ) Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity – (18,583 ) 6,348 7,341 4,325 569 Net interest rate risk gap – 6,289 (2,142 ) (269 ) (9,225 ) 5,347 Cumulative interest rate gap – 6,289 4,147 3,878 (5,347 ) – At 31 December 2011 Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 316 280 – – – 36 Derivatives 3,568 – – – – 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 28,048 25,373 1,175 279 603 618 Financial investments 1,078 – 300 731 – 47 Investments in subsidiaries 90,621 – – – – 90,621 Other assets 231 – – – – 231 Total assets 123,862 25,653 1,475 1,010 603 95,121 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings (2,479 ) (2,260 ) – – – (219 ) Financial liabilities designated at fair values (21,151 ) (2,694 ) (6,423 ) (6,157 ) (5,156 ) (721 ) Derivatives (1,067 ) – – – – (1,067 ) Debt securities in issue (2,613 ) – (1,617 ) – (1,006 ) 10 Other liabilities (1,919 ) – – – – (1,919 ) Subordinated liabilities (12,450 ) (776 ) (774 ) (2,070 ) (8,671 ) (159 ) Total equity (82,183 ) – – – – (82,183 ) Total liabilities and equity (123,862 ) (5,730 ) (8,814 ) (8,227 ) (14,833 ) (86,258 ) Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity – (17,945 ) 6,405 5,749 5,048 743 Net interest rate risk gap – 1,978 (934 ) (1,468 ) (9,182 ) (9,606 ) Cumulative interest rate gap – 1,978 1,044 (424 ) (9,606 ) – 226 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Operational risk (Unaudited) Page App1 Tables Page Operational risk 270 Operational risk management framework 227 Three lines of defence 227 Operational risk management framework 228 Operational risk in 2012 228 Frequency and amount of operational risk losses 229 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category 229 Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk category 230 Compliance risk 230 271 Legal risk 271 Global security and fraud risk 271 Systems risk 272 Vendor risk management 272 Fiduciary risk 231 273 1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of our business, and covers a wide spectrum of issues, in particular legal, compliance, security and fraud. Losses arising from breaches of regulation and law, unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or external events all fall within the definition of operational risk. We continued to enhance our operational risk management framework (‘ORMF’) policies and procedures in 2012, including the implementation of a top risk analysis process to improve the quantification and management of material risks through scenario analysis. This provides a top down, forward-looking view of risks to help determine whether they are being effectively managed within our risk appetite or whether further management action is required. Responsibility for minimising operational risk management lies with HSBC’s management and staff. Each regional, global business, country, business unit and functional head is required to maintain oversight over operational risk and internal control covering all business and operational activities for which they are responsible. A summary of our current policies and practices regarding operational risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 270. Operational risk management framework The Group Operational Risk function and the ORMF assist business management in discharging their responsibilities. The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, and the governance structure for operational risk and internal control across the Group. Inherent to the ORMF is a ‘three lines of defence’ model for the management of risk, as described below: Three lines of defence A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is presented below: 227 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Operational risk management framework • RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks. • KIs are linked to TRAs to help monitor the risks and controls in the operational risk system. • Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses. • External sources (e.g. Fitch and ORX databases) are used to inform the assessment of extreme TRAs. Operational risk in 2012 During 2012, our top and emerging risk profile was dominated by compliance and legal risks as referred to in the ‘Top and emerging risks’ section and Note 43 on the Financial Statements. A number of other material losses were realised in 2012, which related largely to events that occurred in previous years. These events included the possible historical mis-selling of PPI and interest rate protection products in the UK (see Note 32 on the Financial Statements). A number of mitigating actions continue to be taken to prevent future mis-selling incidents including enhanced new product approval processes. The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial service firms is increasing. Proposed changes relating to capital and liquidity requirements, remuneration and/or taxes could increase our cost of doing business, reducing future profitability. Various regulators and competition authorities around the world are also investigating and reviewing certain past submissions made by panel banks and the process for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. In response, we have undertaken a number of initiatives which seek to address the issues identified, including creating a new global management structure, enhancing our governance and oversight, increasing our compliance function resource, emphasising HSBC Values and designing and implementing new global standards as described on page 6. For further information, see Note 43 on the Financial Statements. Other significant operational risks included: • challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn: businesses and geographical regions have prioritised strategy and annual operating plans to reflect current economic conditions. Performance against plan is monitored through a number of means including the use of balanced scorecards and performance reporting at all relevant management committees; • internet crime and fraud: the threat of external fraud, especially in retail and commercial banking, may increase during adverse economic conditions. We have increased our defences through enhanced monitoring and have implemented additional controls, such as two-factor authentication, to mitigate the possibility of losses from fraud risks. We continually assess these threats as they evolve and adapt our controls to mitigate these risks; • level of change creating operational complexity: the Risk function is engaged with business management in business transformation initiatives to ensure robust internal controls are maintained, including through participation in all relevant management committees. For example, we undertake rigorous testing and review of all planned updates to our systems environment. All changes are risk assessed and 228 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) appropriate mitigating controls are required for any planned high risk changes; • information security: the security of our information and technology infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking applications and processes while protecting our customers and the HSBC brand. In common with other banks and multinational organisations, we face a growing threat of cyber attacks. A failure of our defences against such attacks could result in financial loss, loss of customer data and other sensitive information which could undermine both our reputation and our ability to retain the trust of our customers. We experienced a number of cyber attacks in 2012, none of which resulted in financial loss or the loss of customer data. Significant investment has already been made in enhancing controls, including increased training to raise staff awareness of the requirements, improved controls around data access and heightened monitoring of information flows. The threat from cyber attacks is a concern for our organisation and failure to protect our operations from internet crime or cyber attacks may result in financial loss, loss of customer data or other sensitive information which could undermine our reputation and our ability to attract and keep customers. This area will continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives to strengthen the control environment; • vendor risk management: this continues to evolve, with a project underway to accelerate the review of existing contracts, including those that support key economic functions, and a global project to manage the performance of critical outsourced vendors; and • compliance with regulatory agreements and orders: in relation to the Deferred Prosecution Agreements (‘DPA’s), the Group has committed to take or continue to adhere to a number of remedial measures. Breach of the DPAs at any time during its term may allow the DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office to prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DPAs. For further detail please see ‘Top and emerging risks’. Other operational risks are also monitored and managed through the use of the ORMF, including investments made to further improve the resilience of our payments infrastructure. Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 130. Frequency and amount of operational risk losses The profile of operational risk incidents and associated losses is summarised below, showing the distribution of operational risk incidents in terms of their frequency of occurrence and total loss amount in US dollars. The operational risk incident profile in 2012 comprised both high frequency, low impact events and high impact events that occurred much less frequently. For example, losses due to external fraud incidents such a credit card fraud occurred more often than other types of event, but the amounts involved were often small in value. Fraud incidents continued to account for over 50% of the total number of incidents but only 4% of operational risk losses. By contrast, operational risk incidents in the compliance category remained relatively low frequency events, but the total cost was significant. Compliance-related losses increased in 2012 to 79% of total operational risk losses due to significant historical events including the possible mis-selling of PPI and interest rate protection products in the UK and the incidence of regulatory matters described in Note 43 on the Financial Statements. Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category 229 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk category Compliance risk (Unaudited) Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice, and incur fines and penalties and suffer damage to our business as a consequence. All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of compliance risk as regulators and other agencies pursued investigations into historical activities and as we continued to work with them in relation to already identified issues. These included: • an appearance before the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and the DPAs reached with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, the US Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions laws, plus a related undertaking with the FSA; • investigations into the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivative products to SMEs in the UK; and • investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the process for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. As some HSBC entities are members of such panels, HSBC Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory demands for information. With a new senior leadership team and strategy in place since 2011, we have already taken steps to address these issues including making significant changes to strengthen compliance, risk management and culture. These steps, which will also enhance our compliance risk management capabilities, including the following: • the creation of a new global structure, which will make HSBC easier to manage and control; • simplifying our business through the ongoing implementation of our organisational effectiveness programme and our five economic filters strategy; • introducing a sixth global risk filter which will standardise the way we do business in high risk countries; • substantially increasing resources, doubling global expenditure and significantly strengthening Compliance as a control (rather than as an advisory) function; • continuing to roll out an HSBC Values programme that defines the way everyone in the Group should act; and • adopting and enforcing the most effective standards globally, including a globally consistent approach to knowing and retaining our customers. Additionally, we have substantially revised our governance framework in this area, appointing a new Chief Legal Officer with particular expertise and experience in US law and regulation, and creating and appointing experienced individuals to the new roles of Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Global Head of Regulatory Compliance. It is clear from both our own and wider industry experience that there is a significantly increased level of activity from regulators and law enforcement agencies in pursuing investigations in relation to possible breaches of regulation and that the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can be significant. Coupled with a substantial increase in the volume of new regulation, much of which has some level of extra-territorial effect, and the geographical spread of our businesses, we believe that the level of inherent compliance risk that we face will continue to remain high for the foreseeable future. 230 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Fiduciary risk (Unaudited) Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of breaching our fiduciary duties when we act in a fiduciary capacity as trustee or investment manager or as mandated by law or regulation. A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, manages, oversees or has responsibility for assets for a third party that involves a legal and/or regulatory duty to act with the highest standard of care and with utmost good faith. A fiduciary must make decisions and act in the best interests of the third party and must place the wants and needs of the client first, above the needs of the Group. We may be held liable for damages or other penalties caused by failure to act in accordance with those duties. Fiduciary duties may also arise in other circumstances, such as when we act as an agent for a principal, unless the fiduciary duties are specifically excluded (e.g. under the agency appointment contract). During 2012, our principal fiduciary businesses (the ‘designated businesses’) developed fiduciary risk appetite statements for their various fiduciary roles and a joint review was commissioned by Global Operational Risk and RBWM to identify businesses other than designated businesses conducting fiduciary activities to ensure that they were subject to adequate review and oversight. 231 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risk management of insurance operations (Audited) Page App1 Tables Page HSBC’s bancassurance model 233 Overview of insurance products 273 Nature and extent of risks 273 Insurance risk 274 Risk management of insurance operations in 2012 233 Insurance risk 233 Analysis of life insurance risk – liabilities to policyholders 234 Analysis of non-life insurance risk – net written insurance premiums 234 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 235 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries: – by type of contract 236 – by geographical region 237 Financial risks 238 275 Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 238 Market risk 239 275 Liabilities to policyholders 239 Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors 240 Credit risk 240 277 Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 240 Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts 242 Liquidity risk 242 277 Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities 242 Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities 243 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 243 Movements in PVIF and total equity of insurance operations 244 Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations 244 Economic assumptions 244 Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic assumptions 244 Non-economic assumptions 245 Sensitivity analysis 245 1 Appendix to Risk – policies and practices. 232 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The majority of the risk in our Insurance business derives from manufacturing activities and can be categorised as insurance risk and financial risk. Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of risks arising in the insurance operations, including the risks relating to different life and non-life products, during 2012. A summary of our policies and practices regarding the risk management of insurance operations, and the main contracts we manufacture, are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 273. HSBC’s bancassurance model We operate an integrated bancassurance model which provides wealth and protection insurance products principally for customers with whom we have a banking relationship. Insurance products are sold through all global businesses, predominantly by RBWM and CMB, through our branches and direct channels worldwide. The insurance contracts we sell largely relate to the underlying needs of our banking customers, which we can identify from our point-of-sale contacts and customer knowledge. The majority of sales are of savings and investment products and term and credit life contracts. By focusing largely on personal and SME lines of business we are able to optimise volumes and diversify individual insurance risks. Where we have operational scale and risk appetite, mostly in life insurance, these insurance products are manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and rewards associated with writing insurance contracts as part of the underwriting profit, investment income and distribution commission are kept within the Group. Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage through a handful of leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance products to our customers through our banking network and direct channels. These arrangements are generally structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a combination of commissions, fees and profit-share. We distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions. We have core life insurance manufacturing entities, the majority of which are direct subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in seven countries (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, UK, Hong Kong and Singapore). Our life insurance manufacturing entities in the US are held-for-sale at 31 December 2012. Risk management of insurance operations in 2012 This section provides disclosures on the risks arising from insurance manufacturing operations, including insurance risk and financial risks such as market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Risks in these operations are managed within the insurance entities using methodologies and processes appropriate to the insurance activities, but remain subject to oversight at Group level. The consolidated Group liquidity and market risk management disclosures exclude insurance operations. The assets of the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated Group credit risk disclosures. Operational and sustainability risks are covered by the Group’s overall respective risk management processes and are not included in this section. Insurance risk Insurance risk is principally measured in two ways: • liabilities to policyholders on life insurance contracts; and • net written insurance premiums for non-life contracts. The insurance risk profile of our life insurance manufacturing businesses did not change materially during 2012 despite the increase in liabilities to policyholders on these contracts to US$68bn (2011: US$60bn). This growth in liabilities largely resulted from market value gains on underlying financial assets in addition to new business generated during 2012. The insurance risk profile of our non-life insurance manufacturing businesses changed during the year as net written insurance premiums declined to US$656m (2011: US$993m). This was in line with our strategy to focus on the manufacturing of life insurance products, with non-life manufacturing entities or portfolios in Argentina, Hong Kong, Ireland and Singapore sold during 2012. A principal risk we continue to face is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. The cost of claims and benefits 233 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities. In respect of financial risks, subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are usually exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity prices to the extent that the market exposure cannot be managed by utilising any discretionary participation (or bonus) features (‘DPF’) within the policy contracts they issue. The following tables analyse our insurance risk exposures by geographical region and by type of business. The insurance risk profile and related exposures remained largely consistent with those observed at 31 December 2011. Analysis of life insurance risk – liabilities to policyholders56 (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m North America57US$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Life (non-linked) 1,319 25,615 1,587 – 2,163 30,684 Insurance contracts with DPF58 353 23,685 439 – – 24,477 Credit life 160 – 61 – – 221 Annuities 586 – 122 – 1,579 2,287 Term assurance and other long-term contracts 220 1,930 965 – 584 3,699 Life (linked) 3,249 3,786 594 – 5,427 13,056 Investment contracts with DPF58,59 24,370 – 4 – – 24,374 Insurance liabilities to policyholders 28,938 29,401 2,185 – 7,590 68,114 At 31 December 2011 Life (non-linked) 1,163 21,460 1,227 982 2,094 26,926 Insurance contracts with DPF58 335 20,109 338 – – 20,782 Credit life 219 – 58 34 – 311 Annuities 517 – 78 741 1,546 2,882 Term assurance and other long-term contracts 92 1,351 753 207 548 2,951 Life (linked) 2,508 3,393 476 – 4,833 11,210 Investment contracts with DPF58,59 21,477 – 11 – – 21,488 Insurance liabilities to policyholders 25,148 24,853 1,714 982 6,927 59,624 For footnotes, see page 249. Our most significant life insurance products are investment contracts with DPF issued in France, insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, Hong Kong and the UK. The decline in life insurance liabilities in North America reflects the classification of this business as held for sale at 31 December 2012. Analysis of non-life insurance risk – net written insurance premiums60 (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Accident and health 7 181 7 – 34 229 Motor – 14 20 – 161 195 Fire and other damage – 20 15 24 20 79 Liability – 15 4 – 1 20 Credit (non-life) – – – 36 1 37 Marine, aviation and transport – 7 4 – 13 24 Other non-life insurance contracts 5 33 1 3 30 72 Total net written insurance premiums 12 270 51 63 260 656 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (5 ) (117 ) (22 ) (24 ) (116 ) (284 ) 234 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m NorthAmericaUS$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m 2011 Accident and health 23 186 8 – 39 256 Motor – 17 25 – 328 370 Fire and other damage 5 29 13 30 29 106 Liability 1 16 5 – 1 23 Credit (non-life) 6 – – 48 1 55 Marine, aviation and transport – 10 3 – 25 38 Other non-life insurance contracts 7 39 1 7 91 145 Total net written insurance premiums 42 297 55 85 514 993 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders 56 (127 ) (26 ) (22 ) (231 ) (350 ) 2010 Accident and health 78 174 8 3 37 300 Motor – 15 28 – 267 310 Fire and other damage 38 29 11 16 22 116 Liability – 20 4 – 2 26 Credit (non-life) 25 – – 53 2 80 Marine, aviation and transport 3 10 4 – 18 35 Other non-life insurance contracts 20 39 1 9 84 153 Total net written insurance premiums 164 287 56 81 432 1,020 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (169 ) (117 ) (25 ) (13 ) (201 ) (525 ) For footnotes, see page 249. Our motor business was written predominantly in Argentina; this business was sold in May 2012. Our accident and health and fire and other damage to property contracts was written in all regions but mainly in Hong Kong; this business was sold in November 2012. Credit non-life insurance, which was historically originated in conjunction with the provision of loans but now in run-off, was concentrated in the US. Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries (Audited) A principal tool used to manage exposures to both financial and insurance risk, in particular for life insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching. In many markets in which we operate it is neither possible nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset and liability matching strategy. For long-dated non-linked contracts in particular, this results in a duration mismatch between assets and liabilities. We therefore structure portfolios to support projected liabilities from non-linked contracts. In the absence of insurable events occurring, unit-linked contracts match assets more directly with liabilities. This results in the policyholder bearing the majority of the financial risk exposure. The tables below show the composition of assets and liabilities by contract and by geographical region and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at the end of 2012. 235 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract (Audited) Insurance contracts Investment contracts With DPFUS$m Unit-linkedUS$m Annu-itiesUS$m Term assur- ance61US$m Non-lifeUS$m With DPF59US$m Unit- linkedUS$m OtherUS$m Other assets62US$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets 24,288 12,619 1,785 4,350 356 23,620 8,780 4,315 4,692 84,805 – trading assets – – 4 – – – – – – 4 – financial assets designated at fair value 2,333 12,440 571 756 196 6,043 8,206 1,486 987 33,018 – derivatives 40 4 – 6 – 117 13 86 69 335 – financial investments 18,283 – 932 3,315 73 16,022 – 1,853 2,928 43,406 – other financial assets 3,632 175 278 273 87 1,438 561 890 708 8,042 Reinsurance assets 124 593 494 320 14 – – – 22 1,567 PVIF63 – – – – – – – – 4,847 4,847 Other assets and investment properties 448 7 34 110 11 754 24 28 2,420 3,836 Total assets 24,860 13,219 2,313 4,780 381 24,374 8,804 4,343 11,981 95,055 Liabilities under investment contracts: – designated at fair value – – – – – – 8,691 3,765 – 12,456 – carried at amortised cost – – – – – – – 455 – 455 Liabilities under insurance contracts 24,477 13,056 2,287 3,920 81 24,374 – – – 68,195 Deferred tax 13 – 13 12 1 – – – 1,161 1,200 Other liabilities – – – – – – – – 2,760 2,760 Total liabilities 24,490 13,056 2,300 3,932 82 24,374 8,691 4,220 3,921 85,066 Total equity – – – – – – – – 9,989 9,989 Total equity and liabilities64 24,490 13,056 2,300 3,932 82 24,374 8,691 4,220 13,910 95,055 At 31 December 2011 Financial assets 20,520 10,355 2,531 3,398 1,656 20,745 7,843 4,103 7,219 78,370 – trading assets – – 3 – 24 – – – – 27 – financial assets designated at fair value 1,730 10,101 426 594 206 5,491 7,191 1,515 1,616 28,870 – derivatives 23 1 – – – 231 7 89 7 358 – financial investments 15,523 1 1,778 2,540 791 13,732 – 1,913 4,008 40,286 – other financial assets 3,244 252 324 264 635 1,291 645 586 1,588 8,829 Reinsurance assets 12 903 441 196 250 – – – 42 1,844 PVIF63 – – – – – – – – 4,092 4,092 Other assets and investment properties 384 6 14 188 169 744 28 34 753 2,320 Total assets 20,916 11,264 2,986 3,782 2,075 21,489 7,871 4,137 12,106 86,626 Liabilities under investment contracts: – designated at fair value – – – – – – 7,813 3,586 – 11,399 – carried at amortised cost – – – – – – – 435 – 435 Liabilities under insurance contracts 20,782 11,210 2,882 3,262 1,635 21,488 – – – 61,259 Deferred tax 15 – 21 6 1 – – – 931 974 Other liabilities – – – – – – – – 1,930 1,930 Total liabilities 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 2,861 75,997 Total equity – – – – – – – – 10,629 10,629 Total equity and liabilities64 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 13,490 86,626 For footnotes, see page 249. 236 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region56 (Audited) EuropeUS$m HongKongUS$m Rest ofAsia-PacificUS$m North America57US$m LatinAmericaUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets 37,325 35,632 2,594 – 9,254 84,805 – trading assets – – – – 4 4 – financial assets designated at fair value 17,590 7,356 1,370 – 6,702 33,018 – derivatives 203 126 6 – – 335 – financial investments 17,139 23,275 994 – 1,998 43,406 – other financial assets 2,393 4,875 224 – 550 8,042 Reinsurance assets 809 715 8 – 35 1,567 PVIF63 1,140 2,846 304 – 557 4,847 Other assets and investment properties 849 983 230 1,573 201 3,836 Total assets 40,123 40,176 3,136 1,573 10,047 95,055 Liabilities under investment contracts: – designated at fair value 7,783 4,673 – – – 12,456 – carried at amortised cost – – – – 455 455 Liabilities under insurance contracts 28,954 29,402 2,200 – 7,639 68,195 Deferred tax 403 532 88 – 177 1,200 Other liabilities 782 347 267 1,037 327 2,760 Total liabilities 37,922 34,954 2,555 1,037 8,598 85,066 Total equity 2,201 5,222 581 536 1,449 9,989 Total equity and liabilities64 40,123 40,176 3,136 1,573 10,047 95,055 At 31 December 2011 Financial assets 34,163 30,126 2,093 2,414 9,574 78,370 – trading assets – – – – 27 27 – financial assets designated at fair value 15,583 5,875 1,155 – 6,257 28,870 – derivatives 244 114 – – – 358 – financial investments 15,531 19,858 617 1,846 2,434 40,286 – other financial assets 2,805 4,279 321 568 856 8,829 Reinsurance assets 746 912 39 19 128 1,844 PVIF63 1,097 2,322 282 65 326 4,092 Other assets and investment properties 909 946 31 24 410 2,320 Total assets 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 Liabilities under investment contracts: – designated at fair value 6,961 4,405 33 – – 11,399 – carried at amortised cost – – – – 435 435 Liabilities under insurance contracts 25,795 25,160 1,802 1,079 7,423 61,259 Deferred tax 352 408 60 28 126 974 Other liabilities 1,200 269 69 13 379 1,930 Total liabilities 34,308 30,242 1,964 1,120 8,363 75,997 Total equity 2,607 4,064 481 1,402 2,075 10,629 Total equity and liabilities64 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 For footnotes, see page 249. 237 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Financial risks (Audited) Financial risk exposures can be categorised into: • Market risk – risks arising from changes in the fair values of financial assets or their future cash flows from fluctuations in variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices; • Credit risk – the risk of financial loss following the default of third parties to meet their obligations; and • Liquidity risk – the risk of not being able to make payments to policyholders as they fall due as there are insufficient assets that can be realised as cash. Further details on the nature of these financial risks and how they are managed are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 252. The following table analyses the assets held in our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at 31 December 2012 by type of contract, and provides a view of the exposure to financial risk. For linked contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which are determined by reference to the value of the investments supporting the policies, we typically designate assets at fair value; for non-linked contracts, the classification of the assets is driven by the nature of the underlying contract. Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries (Audited) Life linkedcontracts65US$m Life non-linkedcontracts66US$m Non-lifeinsurance67US$m Otherassets62US$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Trading assets Debt securities – 4 – – 4 Financial assets designated at fair value 20,646 11,189 196 987 33,018 Treasury bills – 39 – – 39 Debt securities 8,028 3,607 196 408 12,239 Equity securities 12,618 7,543 – 579 20,740 Financial investments Held-to-maturity: debt securities – 20,245 – 1,548 21,793 Available-for-sale: – 20,160 73 1,380 21,613 – debt securities – 20,160 66 1,354 21,580 – equity securities – – 7 26 33 Derivatives 17 249 – 69 335 Other financial assets68 736 6,511 87 708 8,042 Total financial assets64 21,399 58,358 356 4,692 84,805 At 31 December 2011 Trading assets Debt securities – 3 – – 3 Equity securities – – 24 – 24 Financial assets designated at fair value 17,292 9,756 206 1,616 28,870 Treasury bills 4 107 – – 111 Debt securities 6,823 3,198 206 795 11,022 Equity securities 10,465 6,451 – 821 17,737 Financial investments Held-to-maturity: debt securities – 17,506 175 1,300 18,981 Available-for-sale: 1 17,980 616 2,708 21,305 – other eligible bills – – – 50 50 – debt securities – 17,963 599 2,520 21,082 – equity securities 1 17 17 138 173 Derivatives 8 343 – 7 358 Other financial assets68 897 5,709 635 1,588 8,829 Total financial assets64 18,198 51,297 1,656 7,219 78,370 For footnotes, see page 249. 238 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Approximately 65.6% of financial assets were invested in debt securities at 31 December 2012 (2011: 65.2%) with 24.5% (2011: 22.9%) invested in equity securities. In life linked insurance, premium income less charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets. We manage the financial risks of this product on behalf of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities are linked. These assets represented 25.2% (2011: 23.2%) of the total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at the end of 2012. The remaining financial risks are managed either solely on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly on behalf of the shareholder and policyholders where DPF exist. Market risk (Audited) Market risk arises when mismatches occur between product liabilities and the investment assets which back them. For example, mismatches between asset and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest rate risk. Long-term insurance or investment products may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed. Where mismatches exist as a result of current yields falling below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period, the risk that shareholder capital is required to meet liabilities to policyholders increases. The table below shows, in respect of each category of guarantee, the total liabilities to policyholders established for guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries. The table also shows the range of investment returns on the assets supporting these products and the implied investment returns that would enable the business to meet the guarantees. Immediate annuities, where current investment returns are below guarantees, relate to a closed portfolio in the US which is held for sale at 31 December 2012. Annual return guarantees between 4.5-6%, where current investment returns are below guarantees, is a closed portfolio in Hong Kong. The only other portfolio of contracts identified where current investment returns are below guarantees relate to a closed portfolio in France. This portfolio has reserves of US$495m for which current portfolio yields are 3.25% but investment returns implied by the guarantees are 4.5%. Liabilities to policyholders69 (Audited) 2012 2011 Amount ofreserveUS$m Investment returns implied by guarantee64% Current yields % Amount ofreserveUS$m Investment returns implied by guarantee64% Currentyields % Annuities in payment 1,379 0.0 – 11.7 4.6 – 20.8 1,414 0.0 – 9.6 4.2 – 25.2 Deferred annuities 179 0.0 – 6.0 3.3 – 20.4 175 0.0 – 6.0 3.2 – 22.7 Immediate annuities70 485 6.0 – 12.0 5.4 – 5.5 538 6.0 – 12.0 5.3 – 5.4 Annual return 23,878 0.0 – 2.5 1.4 – 4.7 20,465 0.0 – 2.5 0.0 – 6.9 Annual return 4,315 2.5 – 4.5 3.3 – 6.7 3,849 2.5 – 4.5 3.3 – 10.0 Annual return 155 4.5 – 6.0 4.1 – 4.2 163 4.5 – 6.0 6.4 – 6.5 Capital 18,779 – 0.0 – 7.2 17,400 – 2.3 – 7.8 For footnotes, see page 249. The following table illustrates the effects of selected interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. Where appropriate, we include the impact of the stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity tests. The relationship between the profit and total equity and the risk factors is non-linear and, therefore, the results disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different levels of stress. The sensitivities are stated before allowance for management actions which may mitigate the effect of changes in market rates, and for any factors such as policyholder behaviour that may change in response to changes in market risk. 239 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors (Audited) 2012 2011 Effect onprofit forthe yearUS$m Effect on total equityUS$m Effect onprofit forthe yearUS$m Effect on total equityUS$m + 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 125 (263 ) 108 (178 ) – 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves (208 ) 205 (115 ) 191 10% increase in equity prices 91 91 106 106 10% decrease in equity prices (92 ) (92 ) (164 ) (164 ) 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies 40 40 31 31 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies (40 ) (40 ) (31 ) (31 ) Sensitivity to credit spread increases (18 ) (50 ) (30 ) (75 ) Credit risk (Audited) Credit risk can give rise to losses through default and can lead to volatility in our income statement and balance sheet figures through movements in credit spreads, principally on the US$48bn (2011: US$44bn) non-linked bond portfolio. As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the effects of increases in credit spreads has decreased since 2011 due to narrowing of credit spreads experienced in 2012. The balance and related movement are small because about 90% of the debt securities held by our insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held to maturity or available for sale, and consequently any changes in the fair value of these financial investments, absent impairment, would have no effect on the profit after tax. We calculate the sensitivity using simplified assumptions based on a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period. A confidence level of 99%, consistent with our Group VAR, is applied. Credit quality (Audited) The following table presents an analysis of treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within our Insurance business by measures of credit quality. The five credit quality classifications are defined in the Appendix to Risk on page 253. Only assets supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts and shareholders’ funds are included in the table as financial risk on assets supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne by the policyholder. 83.5% (2011: 86.6%) of the assets included in the table are invested in investments rated as strong. Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries (Audited) Neither past due nor impaired Strong62US$m GoodUS$m SatisfactoryUS$m Sub-standardUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts Trading assets – debt securities 1 – 3 – 4 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,807 638 219 178 3,842 – treasury and other eligible bills 39 – – – 39 – debt securities 2,768 638 219 178 3,803 Financial investments 34,392 4,265 1,627 187 40,471 – debt securities 34,392 4,265 1,627 187 40,471 37,200 4,903 1,849 365 44,317 240 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Neither past due nor impaired Strong62US$m GoodUS$m SatisfactoryUS$m Sub-standardUS$m TotalUS$m Supporting shareholders’ funds71 Financial assets designated at fair value 229 146 13 20 408 – debt securities 229 146 13 20 408 Financial investments 2,356 353 131 62 2,902 – debt securities 2,356 353 131 62 2,902 2,585 499 144 82 3,310 Total64 Trading assets – debt securities 1 – 3 – 4 Financial assets designated at fair value 3,036 784 232 198 4,250 – treasury and other eligible bills 39 – – – 39 – debt securities 2,997 784 232 198 4,211 Financial investments 36,748 4,618 1,758 249 43,373 – debt securities 36,748 4,618 1,758 249 43,373 39,785 5,402 1,993 447 47,627 At 31 December 2011 Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts Trading assets – debt securities 1 – 2 – 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,851 168 349 143 3,511 – treasury and other eligible bills 107 – – – 107 – debt securities 2,744 168 349 143 3,404 Financial investments 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243 – debt securities 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243 34,914 2,884 1,620 339 39,757 Supporting shareholders’ funds71 Financial assets designated at fair value 341 348 61 45 795 – debt securities 341 348 61 45 795 Financial investments 3,198 560 83 29 3,870 – other eligible bills 50 – – – 50 – debt securities 3,148 560 83 29 3,820 3,539 908 144 74 4,665 Total64 Trading assets – debt securities 1 – 2 – 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 3,192 516 410 188 4,306 – treasury and other eligible bills 107 – – – 107 – debt securities 3,085 516 410 188 4,199 Financial investments 35,260 3,276 1,352 225 40,113 – other eligible bills 50 – – – 50 – debt securities 35,210 3,276 1,352 225 40,063 38,453 3,792 1,764 413 44,422 For footnotes, see page 249. Credit risk also arises when assumed insurance risk is ceded to reinsurers. The split of liabilities ceded to reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance recoveries, analysed by credit quality, is shown below. Our exposure to third parties under the reinsurance agreements described in the Appendix to Risk on page 274 is included in this table. 241 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Audited) Neither past due nor impaired Past due Strong Good Satisfactory Sub-standard but notimpaired Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Linked insurance contracts 55 400 – – – 455 Non-linked insurance contracts 936 4 6 – 6 952 Total64 991 404 6 – 6 1,407 Reinsurance debtors 19 133 – – 8 160 At 31 December 2011 Linked insurance contracts 45 858 – – – 903 Non-linked insurance contracts 782 10 104 3 – 899 Total64 827 868 104 3 – 1,802 Reinsurance debtors 18 2 9 1 12 42 For footnote, see page 249. Liquidity risk (Audited) The following tables show the expected undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2012. A significant proportion of our non-life insurance business is viewed as short-term, with the settlement of liabilities expected to occur within one year of the period of risk. There is a greater spread of expected maturities for the life business where, in a large proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in conjunction with policyholders (wholly borne by the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business). The profile of the expected maturity of the insurance contracts at 31 December 2012 remained comparable with 2011. Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities (Audited) Expected cash flows (undiscounted) Within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years Over 15 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Non-life insurance 78 3 – – 81 Life insurance (non-linked) 4,176 12,199 23,420 27,836 67,631 Life insurance (linked) 1,243 3,761 10,446 13,497 28,947 Total64 5,497 15,963 33,866 41,333 96,659 At 31 December 2011 Non-life insurance 742 704 176 13 1,635 Life insurance (non-linked) 2,006 12,243 21,332 25,990 61,571 Life insurance (linked) 920 3,262 9,070 15,546 28,798 Total64 3,668 16,209 30,578 41,549 92,004 For footnote, see page 249. 242 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities (Audited) Liabilities under investment contracts by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Linked investment contracts Other investment contracts Investmentcontractswith DPF Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Remaining contractual maturity:64 – due within 1 year 195 458 4 657 – due between 1 and 5 years 675 – – 675 – due between 5 and 10 years 731 – – 731 – due after 10 years 2,061 – – 2,061 – undated72 5,029 3,762 24,370 33,161 8,691 4,220 24,374 37,285 At 31 December 2011 Remaining contractual maturity:64 – due within 1 year 191 438 8 637 – due between 1 and 5 years 595 – 3 598 – due between 5 and 10 years 548 – – 548 – due after 10 years 2,063 – – 2,063 – undated72 4,416 3,583 21,477 29,476 7,813 4,021 21,488 33,322 For footnotes, see page 249. Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (Audited) Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a risk and valuation framework. The PVIF asset at 31 December 2012 was US$4.8bn (2011: US$4.1bn), representing the present value of the shareholders’ interest in the profits expected to emerge from the book of in-force policies at that date. The PVIF calculation projects expected cash flows, adjusted for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and management’s judgement of future trends. The main assumptions relate to economic and non-economic assumptions and policyholder behaviour. Assumptions are subject to uncertainty and can contribute to volatility in the results of the Insurance business. The key drivers of the movement in the value of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: • new business adjusted for anticipated maturities and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour (‘Value of new business written during the year’); • unwind of the discount rate less the reversal of expected cash flows for the period (‘Expected return’); • changes in non-economic operating assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates (‘Change in operating assumptions’); • impacts arising from changes in projected future cash flows associated with operating assumption experience variances compared to those assumed at the start of the period (‘Experience variances’); • changes related to future investment returns (‘Changes in investment assumptions’); and • the impact of actual investment experience on future cash flows compared to those assumed at the start of the period (‘Investment return variances’). The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection assumptions and explicit allowances for financial options and guarantees using stochastic methods. Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with reference to market risk free yields. The following table shows the movements recorded during the year in respect of total equity and PVIF of insurance operations. 243 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Movements in PVIF and total equity of insurance operations (Audited) 2012 2011 PVIF Total equity PVIF Total equity US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4,092 10,629 3,440 9,778 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 737 737 726 726 Value of new business written during the year73 1,027 943 Movements arising from in-force business: – expected return (420 ) (428 ) – experience variances74 12 1 – changes in operating assumptions (3 ) (222 ) Investment return variances (18 ) (103 ) Changes in investment assumptions 78 294 Other adjustments 61 241 Return on net assets – 1,232 – 1,057 Capital transactions – (1,525 ) – (500 ) Disposals of subsidiaries/portfolios – (382 ) – (96 ) Exchange differences and other 18 (702 ) (74 ) (336 ) At 31 December 4,847 9,989 4,092 10,629 For footnotes, see page 249. Other adjustments for 2012 included a one-off gain of US$119m for a PVIF asset recognised on linked insurance business in Brazil. For 2011, other adjustments related to the US$243m gain recognised upon refinement of the PVIF calculation. Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations (Audited) 2012 2011 UK Hong Kong France UK Hong Kong France % % % % % % Risk free rate 1.53 0.60 2.12 2.24 1.47 2.77 Risk discount rate 2.03 7.46 4.05 2.74 8.00 5.95 Expense inflation 2.84 3.00 2.00 3.45 3.00 2.00 Economic assumptions (Audited) The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, the relationships are non-linear and the results of the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress. The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour. Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic assumptions (Audited) PVIF at 31 December 2012 2011 US$m US$m + 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate 137 128 – 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate (191 ) (91 ) 244 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Non-economic assumptions (Audited) We determine the policyholder liabilities for non-life manufacturers by reference to non-economic assumptions including claims costs and expense rates. Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions including mortality and/or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates. The table below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2012 and total equity at 31 December 2012 to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2011. The cost of claims is a risk associated with non-life insurance business. An increase in claims costs would have a negative effect on profit. Sensitivities have significantly decreased since 2011 due to the disposal of the non-life entities or portfolios in Argentina, Hong Kong, Ireland and Singapore during 2012. Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance contracts. The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity depends on the type of business being written. Our largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk exist in Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the US. Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts being written. For insurance contracts, claims are funded by premiums received and income earned on the investment portfolio supporting the liabilities. For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit due to the loss of future premium income on the lapsed policies. However, some contract lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy surrender charges. Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the UK are where we are most sensitive to a change in lapse rates. Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in expense rates. To the extent that increased expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in expense rates will have a negative impact on our profits. Sensitivity analysis (Audited) Effect on profit and total equity at 31 December Life Non-life Total US$m US$m US$m 2012 20% increase in claims costs – (12 ) (12 ) 20% decrease in claims costs – 12 12 10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates (88 ) – (88 ) 10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates 92 – 92 50% increase in lapse rates (491 ) – (491 ) 50% decrease in lapse rates 842 – 842 10% increase in expense rates (105 ) (1 ) (106 ) 10% decrease in expense rates 106 1 107 2011 20% increase in claims costs – (135 ) (135 ) 20% decrease in claims costs – 135 135 10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates (100 ) – (100 ) 10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates 110 – 110 50% increase in lapse rates (349 ) – (349 ) 50% decrease in lapse rates 609 – 609 10% increase in expense rates (89 ) (12 ) (101 ) 10% decrease in expense rates 89 12 101 245 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Other material risks Page App1 Tables Page Reputational risk 246 278 Pension risk 246 278 Pension plans in the UK 279 The principal plan 246 The principal plan – target asset allocation 247 Benefit payments (US$m) 247 Future developments 248 Pension plans in Hong Kong 279 The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme 248 Pension plans in North America 280 The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan 249 Sustainability risk 249 280 1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. Reputational risk (Unaudited) The safeguarding of our reputation is paramount. It is the responsibility of all members of staff, supported by a global risk management structure underpinned by relevant policies and practices, readily available guidance, and regular training. We have acknowledged, in the context of last year’s US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, the Deferred Prosecution Agreements with US authorities and the undertakings with the UK FSA, that it was not enough to fix the specific issues that they focused on. Additionally, therefore, we have outlined our implementation of a global strategy to tackle the root causes of these identified deficiencies. With a new senior leadership team and a new strategy in place since 2011, HSBC has already taken steps to augment the framework to address these issues including making significant changes to strengthen compliance, risk management and culture. These steps, which should also serve, over time, to enhance our reputational risk management, are discussed further on page 278. Success in detecting and preventing illicit actors’ access to the global financial system calls for constant vigilance and HSBC will continue to work in close cooperation with all governments to achieve this. This is integral to the execution of HSBC’s strategy, to our core values and to preserving and enhancing our reputation. Pension risk (Audited) We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world. Some are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’). There were no material changes to our policies and procedures for the management of pension risk in 2012. During 2012, the Group’s defined benefit pension plans reduced from a net liability of US$0.2bn to a net asset of US$0.03bn. This was mainly due to growth in the value of the principal plan’s assets outstripping the comparable growth in liabilities. The principal plan (Audited) In 2006 the principal plan assets consisted of a strategic portfolio. At the time, HSBC and the trustee of the principal plan agreed to change the investment strategy in order to reduce the investment risk. The target asset allocations for this strategy at that time, as revised in 2011 and at this year end are shown below, demonstrating the ongoing evolution of the strategy. The strategy is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse range of investments, and includes a commitment to undertake a programme of swap arrangements (see Note 44 on the Financial Statements) by which the principal plan makes Libor-related interest payments in exchange for the receipt of cash flows which are based on projected future benefit payments to be made from the principal plan. 246 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The principal plan – target asset allocation 2012 2011 2006 % % % Equities 15.5 15.5 15.0 Bonds 60.5 60.5 50.0 Alternative assets75 9.5 9.5 10.0 Property 9.0 9.0 10.0 Cash 5.5 5.5 15.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 For footnote, see page 249. As a result of a special contribution to the principal plan in June 2010 of £1,760m (US$2,638m), a cash generating portfolio was established. The portfolio comprised supra-national, agency and government-guaranteed securities, ABSs, corporate subordinated debt and auction rate securities. A further special contribution in December 2011 of £184m (US$286m) added to this portfolio. The contribution was used to purchase ABSs from HSBC at an arm’s length value determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. However, these assets may be supplemented with other assets from time to time. The latest actuarial valuation of the principal plan was made as at 31 December 2011 by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Limited. At that date, the market value of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme’s assets was £18.3bn (US$28.3bn) (including assets relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined contribution plan and additional voluntary contributions). The market value of the plan assets represented 100% of the amount expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings. There was therefore no resulting surplus/deficit. The method adopted for this valuation was the projected unit method. The expected cash flows from the principal plan were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) swap break-even curve at 31 December 2011. Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% per annum above RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a minimum of 0% and a maximum of 5% (maximum of 3% per annum in respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009), were assumed to be in line with RPI. The projected cash flows were discounted at the Libor swap curve at 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the expected return on the investment strategy of 160bps per annum. The mortality experience of the principal plan’s pensioners over the six-year period (2006-2011) was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, the mortality assumptions were set, based on the SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the pensioner experience. Allowance was made for future improvements to mortality rates in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation core projections with a long run improvement rate set at 2% for males and 1.5% for females. The benefits payable from the defined benefit plan from 2013 are expected to be as shown in the chart below. Benefit payments (US$m) As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, calculations were also carried out as to the amount of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities if the Scheme was discontinued and the members’ benefits bought out with an insurance company (although in practice this may not be possible for a plan of this size) or the Trustee continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC. The amount required under this approach was estimated to be £26.2bn (US$40.6bn) as at 31 December 2011. In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent assumption about future mortality was made than for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of UK government bonds. An explicit allowance for expenses was also included. Based on the latest valuation as at 31 December 2011 and there being no deficit, no Technical Provisions Recovery Plan is required and the schedule of future funding payments agreed after the 2008 actuarial valuation was dissolved. HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general framework, which, over time, will see the Scheme’s asset strategy evolve to be less risky and further aligned to future cash-flows, referred to as the Target Matching Portfolio (‘TMP’). Evolution to the TMP can be achieved by asset returns in excess of that assumed and/or additional funding. In February 2013, HSBC agreed to make three general framework contributions of £64m (US$103m) in each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015. 247 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) After the 2008 valuation, HSBC considered that the agreed recovery plan payments, together with investment returns (at an expected level of 240 basis points above the Libor swap curve), would be sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 over the agreed period. HSBC also agreed with the Trustee, that at each subsequent actuarial valuation any shortfall in investment returns relative to this expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis points per annum, would be eliminated by payment of equal cash instalments over the remaining years to the end of the recovery plan period. Although the 2011 triennial valuation disclosed no deficit and therefore no technical provisions recovery plan is required, HSBC and the Trustee have agreed to maintain this investment performance underwriting agreement. The investment performance will be assessed every three years, with an end date of 31 December 2017. Any payments due would only be payable if a Technical Provisions deficit is present at the reference date. HSBC Bank is also making ongoing contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section members. Since April 2010, after completion of the 2008 valuation, HSBC has paid contributions at the rate of 34% of pensionable salaries (less member contributions). Following completion of the 2011 triennial valuation, HSBC will pay contributions at the rate of 43% of pensionable salaries (less member contributions) from 1 April 2013. An additional employer contribution will be paid on or before 30 April 2013 equal to 9% of pensionable salaries, in respect of the period 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2013. Future developments (Unaudited) In January 2013, as part of a wider review of employee benefits, HSBC announced proposals to cease future accrual of service for active members of the Defined Benefit Section with effect from 30 June 2014. Under the proposals, all active members of the Defined Benefit Section will become deferred members from 30 June 2014 (and will become members of the Defined Contribution Section from 1 July 2014). The valuation of the Scheme’s defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions. The proposed removal of future salary escalation from the pay assumptions is estimated to reduce the defined benefit obligation by approximately US$0.3bn and the proposed change in the underlying inflation assumption for indexation from RPI, for active members, to CPI, for deferred members, by a further US$0.5bn. The proposed cessation of the Scheme to provide ill-health benefits to members, to be covered by insurance policies provided by HSBC under these proposals, is estimated to reduce the defined benefit obligation by approximately US$0.5bn. The consultation period for these proposals will end, and a final decision is expected to be made, in the second quarter of 2013 at which time a past service credit will be recognised in the income statement. The future effect of these proposed changes on the income statement is dependent primarily on the level of pension contributions made by HSBC and employees to the Defined Contribution Section, the final outcome of which remains uncertain. In all reasonably likely scenarios, the net effect on earnings over time is not expected to be material. The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme (Audited) The scheme mainly invests in bonds with a smaller portion in equities and each investment manager has been assigned an investment mandate with the targeted asset allocation. The ranges of target asset allocations for the portfolio are as follows: Bonds and cash 55-100%, Equity 0-25% and Alternative Investments 0-20%. Alternative Investments refer to high-return and high-risk alternatives, including but not limited to private equity funds, hedge funds, energy, gold, agriculture, commodities and distressed assets. The latest actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2010 by Wing Lui, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Hong Kong Limited. At that valuation date, the market value of the defined benefit scheme’s assets was US$1,109m. On an ongoing basis, the defined benefit scheme’s assets represented 104% of the actuarial present value of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$41m. On a wind-up basis, the scheme’s assets represented 110% of the members’ vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$105m. The attained age method has been adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions used in this valuation were a discount rate of 6% per annum and long-term salary increases of 5% per annum. The recommended employer contribution rate as a percentage of scheme salaries is 14.3% over 248 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013. No additional special contributions have been agreed. The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan (Audited) In 2010, the Investment Committee (the ‘Committee’) unanimously agreed to transition the Plan’s target asset allocation mix to 40% equity securities, 59% fixed income securities and 1% cash over a 24-month period. In 2011, the Committee decided to accelerate this shift to the 2011 year-end and the target asset allocation mix was maintained during 2012. Should interest rates rise faster than currently projected by the Committee, a further shift to a higher percentage of fixed income securities may be made. In the third quarter of 2012, it was agreed to cease all future contributions under the cash balance formula and freeze the plan with effect from 1 January 2013. While participants with existing balances continue to receive interest credits until the account is distributed, they no longer accrue benefits beginning in 2013. The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan to determine compliance with US statutory funding requirements was made at 1 January 2012 by Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary, member of the American Academy of Actuaries, formerly of Mercer. At that date, the market value of the plan’s assets was US$3,194m. The assets represented 118% of the benefits accrued to members as valued under the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 that was effective for the plan year beginning 1 January 2008. The resulting surplus amounted to US$479m. The method employed for this valuation was the traditional unit credit method and the discount rate was determined using a segment rate method as selected by HSBC under the relevant regulations, which resulted in an effective interest rate of 7.13% per annum. Sustainability risk (Unaudited) Assessing the environmental and social impacts of providing finance to our customers is integral to our overall risk management processes. In 2012, we implemented several changes to our policies and procedures to streamline our management of sustainability risks. This ranged from producing guidelines on how we extend the Equator Principles beyond project finance into corporate loans, to technical fixes in our systems to improve the accuracy of our management information. A summary of our current policies and practices regarding reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 278. Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 ‘Other personal loans and advances’ include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending. 2 ‘Financial’ includes loans and advances to banks. 3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers. In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$28bn (2011: US$171bn), reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments. The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels. 4 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance. 5 Comprising Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. 6 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance. 7 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less estimated costs to sell (‘Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount’). The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds less the Initial Foreclosed Properties Carrying Amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-down (excluding any accrued finance income) plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds (e.g. real estate tax advances) and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property. This ratio represents the portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property. 8 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 7 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property. 9 ‘Other commercial loans and advances’ include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities. 10 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account. 11 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement. Consequently, we report all such balances under ‘Neither past due nor impaired’. 12 ‘Loans and advances to customers’ includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong (2012: US$2.3bn; 2011: US$3.5bn), good (2012: US$457m; 2011: US$476m), satisfactory (2012: US$390m; 2011: US$428m), sub-standard (2012: US$422m; 2011: US$556m) and impaired (2012: US$259m; 2011: US$229m). 249 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 13 Included in this category are loans of US$2.3bn (2011: US$2.9bn) that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age. These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future. 14 ‘Impaired loans and advances’ are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 156, ‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’) and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired (see page 162). 15 ‘Collectively assessed loans and advances’ comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified. 16 ‘Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired’ are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 90 days past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired. 17 ‘Collectively assessed impairment allowances’ are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions. Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong. 18 Included within ‘Exchange and other movements’ is US$0.8bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale (2011: US$1.6bn). 19 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings. 20 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable. 21 ‘Currency translation’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year. 22 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable. 23 Equity securities not included. 24 ‘First lien residential mortgages’ include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.2bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$3.3bn). Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2010: US$3.5bn; 2009: US$3.5bn; 2008: US$3.9bn. 25 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2012 relate to the geographical regions, Europe, North America, and Middle East and North Africa. (2011: Europe and North America). 26 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure. 27 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’) and The Federal National Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’). 28 ‘Directly held’ includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group. 29 ‘Effect of impairments’ represents the reduction or increase in the reserve on initial impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of the assets. 30 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security. 31 Credit default swap (‘CDS’) gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs. 32 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs. It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 33 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit valuation adjustment. 34 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness. 35 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. 36 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. Eurozone exposures 37 Our available-for-sale holdings in sovereign and agency debt of Italy and Spain include debt held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders. For such contracts, unrealised movements in liabilities are recognised in other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised movements on related available-for-sale assets. To the extent that the movements are matched, no movement in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised. For those available-for-sale debt instruments described above that are not held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders, the available-for-sale reserves at 31 December 2012 were insignificant. 38 ‘In-country liabilities’ in Italy include liabilities issued under local law but booked outside the country. Liquidity and funding 39 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios. 40 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises three legal entities; HSBC Bank plc (including SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, HFC Bank Ltd, and all overseas branches), Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited and HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK FSA. 41 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the bank in Hong Kong including all overseas branches. Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity. 42 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group; predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank USA, NA. The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity. 43 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB. 44 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts. 45 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits. 46 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits. 47 As a result of the significant level of disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2012, the financial liabilities of the disposal groups held for sale has been separately shown in the table. For further details of the disposal groups held for sale, refer to Note 30 on the Financial Statements. 250 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk 48 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues. 49 Revenues within the daily distribution graph include all revenues booked in Global Markets (gross of brokerage fees). The effect of any month-end adjustments, not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question. The 2012 daily distribution of trading revenues excludes the effect of the one-off credit valuation adjustment on derivative assets of US$903m. 50 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking. 51 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VAR by individual risk type and the combined total VAR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures. 52 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects. 53 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment. Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio. 54 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. 55 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together. See ‘Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements’ on page 525. Risk management of insurance operations 56 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa. 57 The decline in life insurance liabilities in North America reflects the classification of the majority of this business as held for sale at 31 December 2012. At 31 December 2012, the held-for-sale North American life insurance liabilities by contract type comprised credit life contracts (US$15m), annuities (US$723m) and term assurance and other long-term contracts (US$205m). 58 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’) can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC. These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts. 59 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 60 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers. 61 Term assurance includes credit life insurance. 62 The Other assets column shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale. The majority of the assets for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as ‘Other assets and investment properties’ and totalled US$2.0bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.1bn). Assets classified as held for sale consist primarily of debt securities, the majority of which have a ‘strong’ credit rating at 31 December 2012. All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported in ‘Other liabilities’ and totalled US$1.2bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.1bn). The majority of these liabilities were life and non-life policyholder liabilities expected to mature after 5 years. 63 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF. 64 Does not include associated insurance companies, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet Holdings, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. 65 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts. 66 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts. 67 Comprise non-life insurance contracts. 68 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities. 69 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured. 70 The majority of reserves for immediate annuities with guarantees are within insurance businesses that are held for sale at 31 December 2012. 71 Shareholders’ funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets. 72 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies. These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown. 73 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business. 74 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this impacts profits on future business. Pension risk 75 In 2011 and 2012, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets. In 2006, alternative assets included loans and infrastructure assets. 251 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Country distribution of outstandings and cross-border exposures 76 These balances were between 0.75% and 1% of total assets. All other balances were above 1%. Risk elements in the loan portfolio 77 In addition to the numbers presented there were US$1.3bn of impaired loans (2011: US$1.5bn); no unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest (2011: nil); and US$0.4bn of troubled debt restructurings (not included in the classifications above (2011: US$0.1bn)), all relating to assets held for sale at 31 December 2012. 78 Assets held for resale represent assets obtained by taking possession of collateral held as security for financial assets. 79 Ratio excludes trading loans classified as in default. 251a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Appendix to Risk Risk policies and practices This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity and funding, market risk, operational risk (including compliance risk, legal risk and fiduciary risk), insurance risk, reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk. Risk governance (Unaudited) Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board on shaping the Group’s risk strategy and managing risks effectively. It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, by the cascading from the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) of performance scorecards that align business and risk objectives, and by the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned responsibilities. This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, experience and mandatory learning, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC. Credit risk Credit risk management (Audited) The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by the Global Risk function. Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings plc. Similar credit approval authorities are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries. In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk. Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk are set out below. Apart from the creation of a new Group Models Oversight Committee and supportive framework there were no significant changes in 2012. The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk • to formulate Group credit policy. Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies; • to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors; • to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk. Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken; • to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group; • to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the purpose of trading; • to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits; • to control our cross-border exposures (see page 259); • to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems, the governance of which is under the general oversight of the Group Model Oversight Committee (‘MOC’). The Group MOC meets bi-monthly and reports to the Risk Management Meeting. It is chaired by the risk function and its membership is drawn from Global Risk and global businesses; • to report to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board on high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances, stress testing results and recommendations and retail portfolio performance; and • to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, local regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions. 252 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Principal objectives of our credit risk management • to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework; • to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions; and • to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation. Credit quality of financial instruments (Audited) Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss. In the case of individually significant accounts that are predominantly within our wholesale businesses, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly. Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data. Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. For further details see definitions of our credit quality classifications below. Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action. When appropriate, our operating companies use specialist units to provide customers with support to help them avoid default wherever possible. Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the Group, reinforce secondary risk management controls and share best practice. Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a global perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via the sampling of global/regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to assess major change initiatives. The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of more granular, internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses, as well as the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities. There is no direct correlation between the internal and external ratings at granular level, except to the extent each falls within a single quality classification. Credit quality classification (Unaudited) Debt securities and other bills Wholesale lending and derivatives Retail lending External credit rating Internal credit rating 12 monthprobability of default % Internal credit rating1 Expected loss % Quality classification Strong A– and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 – 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 – 0.999 Good BBB+ to BBB– CRR3 0.170 – 0.740 EL3 1.000 – 4.999 Satisfactory BB+ to B+ and unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 – 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 – 19.999 Sub-standard B to C CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 – 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 – 99.999 Impaired Default CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100+ or defaulted 2 1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 156, ‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’). 2 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries. 253 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Quality classification definitions • ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or low levels of expected loss. Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency. • ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk. Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of recovery processes. • ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk. Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following the adoption of recovery processes. • ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern. Retail portfolio segments show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and/or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes. • ‘Impaired’ exposures have been assessed as impaired. Wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation. Retail loans and advances greater than 90 days past due unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired. Renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio (see page 255). The customer risk rating (‘CRR’) 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure. The expected loss (‘EL’) 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for these customer segments; this combines obligor and facility/product risk factors in a composite measure. For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications. The ratings of Standard and Poor’s are cited, with those of other agencies being treated equivalently. Debt securities with short-term issue ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities. If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is made in line with regulatory requirements. Renegotiated loans and forbearance (Audited) A range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. They include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing. Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely to continue. These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those provided initially. Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to repay the borrowing and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations. For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered and the number of qualifying payments that must be received. The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of exceptional events. Identifying renegotiated loans The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, customer retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer. When the contractual payment terms of a loan have been modified because we have significant concerns about the borrower’s ability to meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as ‘renegotiated loans’. For the purposes of this disclosure the term ‘forbearance’ is synonymous with the renegotiation of loans. For retail lending, when considering whether there is ‘significant concern’ regarding a customer’s ability to meet contractual loan repayments when due, we assess the customer’s delinquency status, account behaviour, repayment history, current financial situation and continued ability to repay. Where the customer is not meeting contractual repayments or it is evident that they will be unable to do so without the renegotiation, there will be a significant 254 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) concern regarding their ability to meet contractual payments, and the loan will be disclosed as impaired, unless the concession granted is insignificant as discussed below. For loan restructurings in wholesale lending, indicators of significant concerns regarding a borrower’s ability to pay include: • the debtor is currently in default on any of its debt; • the debtor has declared or is in the process of declaring bankruptcy or entering into a similar process; • there is significant doubt as to whether the debtor will continue to be a going concern; • currently, the debtor has securities that have been delisted, are in the process of being delisted, or are under threat of being delisted from an exchange as a result of trading or financial difficulties; • based on estimates and projections that only encompass the current business capabilities, the bank forecasts that the debtor’s entity-specific cash flows will be insufficient to service the debt (both interest and principal) in accordance with the contractual terms of the existing agreement through maturity. Thus actual payment default may not yet have occurred; and • absent the modification, the debtor cannot obtain funds from sources other than the existing creditors at an effective interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for similar debt for a non-distressed debtor. Where the modification of contractual payment terms of a loan represents a concession for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, and is a concession that we would not otherwise consider, then the renegotiated loan is disclosed as impaired in accordance with our impaired loan disclosure convention described in more detail on page 162, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. Insignificant concessions are primarily restricted to our CML portfolio in HSBC Finance, where loans which are in the early stages of delinquency (less than 60 days delinquent), and typically have the equivalent of two payments deferred for the first time, are excluded from our impaired loan classification as the contractual payment deferrals are deemed to be insignificant compared with payments due on the loan as a whole. For details of HSBC Finance’s loan renegotiated programmes and portfolios, see pages 158 to 162. Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans (Audited) Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the end of each reporting period. A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated. When we grant a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial difficulty, this is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly. A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when: • there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise not consider, and • it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations in full. This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment. For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances. For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis. For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the portfolio, but is typically not less than six months. Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be substantially more (for further details on HSBC Finance see page 150). Payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. These performance periods are in addition to the receipt of a minimum of two payments within a 60 day period which must be received for the customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation (in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be required). The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable 255 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) for the borrower. For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructure. Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about a borrower’s ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation. Unimpaired renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining indicators of impairment. Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition. When a loan is restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated. When determining whether a loan that is restructured should be derecognised and a new loan recognised, we consider the extent to which the changes to the original contractual terms result in the renegotiated loan, considered as a whole, being a substantially different financial instrument. The following are examples of circumstances that are likely to result in this test being met and derecognition accounting being applied: • an uncollateralised loan becomes fully collateralised; • the addition or removal of cross collateralisation provisions; • multiple facilities are consolidated into a single new facility; • removal or addition of conversion features attached to the loan agreement; • a change in the currency in which the principal or interest is denominated; • a change in the liquidation preference or ranking of the instrument; or • the contract is altered in any other manner so that the terms under the new or modified contract are substantially different from those under the original contract. The following are examples of factors that we consider may indicate that the revised loan is a substantially different financial instrument, but are unlikely to be conclusive in themselves: • change in guarantees or loan covenants provided; • less significant changes to collateral arrangements; or • the addition of repayment provisions or prepayment premium clauses. Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances (Audited) For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments. When empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, the use of roll-rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance. When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience is used. As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date. This treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our impaired loans disclosure convention. When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience. For further details of the risk factor adjustments see ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 54. In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment assessment. A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan. The individual impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in renegotiated loans. 256 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Corporate and commercial forbearance (Unaudited) In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified that repayment difficulties against the original terms already have, or are very likely to, materialise. These cases are treated as impaired loans where: • the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the bank (i.e. due to current credit distress); and • the bank is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession (i.e. it is offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer). These cases are described as distressed restructurings. The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired. Against the background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point that it becomes clear that there is an increasing risk that a restructuring of this kind might be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect the deteriorating credit risk profile, and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval, or sooner if there is sufficient concern regarding the customer’s likeliness to pay. For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customer’s agreement should be treated as a distressed restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary: • transfers from the customer of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or partially a debt; • issuance or other granting of an equity interest to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest; and • modification of the terms of a debt, such as one or more of the following: – reduction (absolute or contingent) of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt; – extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk; – reduction (absolute or contingent) of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt; and – reduction (absolute or contingent) of accrued interest. Modifications that are unrelated to payment arrangements, such as the restructuring of collateral or security arrangements or the waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded by themselves to be evidence of credit distress affecting payment capacity. Typically, covenants are in place to give the bank rights of repricing or acceleration, but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected. They provide rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration. However, when these modifications are made in conjunction with modifications affecting payment arrangements as a result of significant concerns regarding the payment of contractual cash flows, they are treated as a distressed restructuring. In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customer’s entire exposure and facilities will be reviewed and the customer’s ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation is assessed. Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will not deal with a customer’s payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied. This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity. Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features. If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case may be returned to a non-impaired grade (CRR1-8) provided no other indicators of impairment remain. Such a case cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment reserve remains against any of the customer’s credit facilities. The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the customer under the amended agreement and the extent to which the customer’s financial position is considered to have improved. 257 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Impairment assessment (Audited) It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates impairment allowances for impaired loans promptly and appropriately. For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Notes 2g and 2j on the Financial Statements. Impairment and credit risk mitigation The existence of collateral has an impact when calculating impairment on individually assessed impaired loans. When we no longer expect to recover the principal and interest due on a loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment. If exposures are secured, the current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account when assessing the need for an impairment allowance. No impairment allowance is recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in full on realisation of the security. Personal lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios typically consist of large groups of homogeneous loans. Two methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: a roll rate methodology or a more basic formulaic approach based on historical losses. The historical loss methodology is typically used to calculate collective impairment allowances for secured, or low default portfolios such as mortgages, until the point at which they are individually identified and assessed as impaired. For loans which are collectively assessed using historical loss methodology, the historical loss rate is derived from the average contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period. The net contractual write-off rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after the realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. A roll rate methodology is more commonly adopted for unsecured portfolios when there are sufficient volumes of empirical data to develop robust statistical models. In certain circumstances mortgage portfolios have a statistically significant number of defaults and losses available, enabling reliable roll rates to be generated. In these cases a roll rate methodology is applied until the point at which the loans are individually identified and assessed as impaired, and the average loss rate for each delinquency bucket is adjusted to reflect the average loss expected following realisation of security and receipt of recoveries. The average loss expected is derived from average historical collateral realisation values. The nature of the collective allowance assessment prevents individual collateral values or loan-to-value (‘LTV’) ratios from being included within the calculation. However, the loss rates used in the collective assessment are adjusted for the collateral realisation experiences which will vary depending on the LTV composition of the portfolio. For example mortgage portfolios under a historical loss rate methodology with lower LTV ratios will typically experience lower loss history and consequently a lower net contractual write-off rate. For wholesale collectively assessed loans historical loss methodologies are applied to measure loss event impairments which have been incurred but not reported. Loss rates are derived from the observed contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period, typically 60 months. The net contractual write-off rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. These historical loss rates are adjusted by an economic factor which adjusts the historical averages to better represent current economic conditions affecting the portfolio. In order to reflect the likelihood of a loss event not being identified and assessed an emergence period assumption is applied. This reflects the period between a loss occurring and its identification. The emergence period is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio. The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. A fixed range for the period between a loss occurring and its identification is not defined across the Group and as it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis, it may vary over time as these factors change. Given that credit management policies require all customers to be reviewed at least annually, we expect this estimated period would be at most 12 months. 258 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Write-off of loans and advances For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 2g on the Financial Statements. In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower. If there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due. Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent. Write-off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but, in very exceptional circumstances, exceeding that figure in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending extends to this time. In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above. Collections procedures may continue after write-off. Concentration of exposure (Audited) Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global businesses. These include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing. Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of concentration risk and arises when there is a strong correlation between the counterparty’s probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. We use a range of procedures to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities to obtain prior approval before undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines. Cross-border exposures We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures. Impairment allowances are assessed in respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: • performing, trade-related and of less than one year’s maturity; • mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned; • in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are measured at fair value daily; and • performing facilities with a principal (excluding security) of US$1m or below and/or with maturity dates shorter than three months. Nature of HSBC’s securitisation and other structured exposures (Audited) Mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments (interest and/or principal). An MBS which references mortgages with different risk profiles is classified according to the highest risk class. Collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s) are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s). CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part of the underlying assets or reference assets. As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as sub-prime. Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral and lending activity, are described overleaf. 259 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs and direct lending includes securities with collateral relating to: • commercial property mortgages; • leveraged finance loans; • student loans; and • other assets, such as securities with other receivable-related collateral. Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit-related actions. For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has primarily been used to determine whether a loan is sub-prime. For non-US mortgages, management judgement is used. US Home Equity Lines of Credit (‘HELoC’s) A form of revolving credit facility provided to customers, which is supported in the majority of circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property. Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime. US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming standard criteria. US credit scores and the completeness of documentation held (such as proof of income), are considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is appropriate. Non sub-prime mortgages in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible for sale to the major US Government mortgage agencies or sponsored entities. US Government agency and sponsored enterprises mortgage-related assets Securities that are guaranteed by US Government agencies such as the Government National Mortgage Association (‘Ginnie Mae’), or by US Government sponsored entities including the Federal National Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’). Holdings of US Government agency and US Government sponsored enterprises’ mortgage-related assets are classified as prime exposures. UK non-conforming mortgages UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. Examples include mortgages where the expected level of documentation is not provided (such as income with self-certification), or where poor credit history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate. UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as sub-prime exposures. Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that do not meet any of the classifications described above. Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included in this category. Impairment methodologies (Audited) To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash flows. The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date. The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of default. However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and recovery rates. Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors. We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed progression rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows. In such cases, the security is considered to be impaired. In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO. 260 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the ABS. Liquidity and funding (Audited) The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally (by country) in our operating entities in compliance with the Group’s liquidity and funding risk management framework (the ‘LFRF’), and with practices and limits set by the GMB through the Risk Management Meeting and approved by the Board. These limits vary according to the depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate. Our general policy is that each defined operating entity should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities. Where transactions exist between operating entities, they are reflected symmetrically in both entities. As part of our Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) structure, we have established ALCOs at Group level, in the regions and in operating entities. The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and control of liquidity and funding. The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding within the Group’s framework and risk appetite resides with the local operating entity ALCO. Our most significant operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting. The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, with appropriate escalation of significant issues to Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting. Operating entities are predominately defined on a country basis to reflect our local management of liquidity and funding. Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal entity. However, to take account of the situation where operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries or branches: • an operating entity may be defined as a wider sub-consolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated in the same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible between the entities and permitted by local regulation, and the definition reflects how liquidity and funding are managed locally; or • an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a principal office (branch) of a wider legal entity operating in multiple countries, reflecting the local country management of liquidity and funding. The list of entities it directly oversees and the composition of these entities is reviewed and agreed annually by the Risk Management Meeting. Primary sources of funding (Audited) Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability. For deposits, stability depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing. We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior secured and unsecured debt securities (publically and privately) and borrowing from the secured repo markets against high quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence in local wholesale markets. The management of funding and liquidity risk Inherent liquidity risk categorisation We place our operating entities into one of three categories (low, medium and high) to reflect our assessment of their inherent liquidity risk, considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the host country and factors specific to the operating entities themselves, such as the local market, market share and balance sheet strength. The categorisation involves management judgement and is based on the perceived liquidity risk of an operating entity relative to other entities in the Group. The categorisation is intended to reflect the possible impact of a liquidity event, not the probability of an event. The categorisation is part of our risk appetite and is used to determine the prescribed stress scenario that we require our operating entities to be able to withstand, and to manage to. 261 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Core deposits A key assumption of our internal framework is the categorisation of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our expectation of the behaviour of these deposits during liquidity stress. This characterisation takes into account the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and pricing of the deposit. No deposit is considered to be core in its entirety unless it is contractually collateralising a loan. The core deposit base in each operating entity is considered to be a long-term source of funding and therefore is assumed not to be withdrawn in the liquidity stress scenario that we use to calculate our principal liquidity risk metrics. The three filters considered in assessing whether a deposit in any operating entity is core are: • price: any deposit priced significantly above market or benchmark rates is generally treated as entirely non-core; • size: depositors with total funds above certain monetary thresholds are excluded. Thresholds are established by considering the business line and inherent liquidity risk categorisation; and • line of business: the element of any deposit remaining after the application of the price and size filters is assessed on the basis of the line of business to which the deposit is associated. The proportion of any customer deposit that can be considered core under this filter is between 35% and 90%. Repo transactions and bank deposits cannot be categorised as core deposits. Advances to core funding ratio Core customer deposits are an important source of funding to finance lending to customers, and mitigate against reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Limits are placed on operating entities to restrict their ability to increase loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding with a residual maturity beyond one year; this measure is referred to as the ‘advances to core funding’ ratio. Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the most significant operating entities, and by regional ALCOs for smaller operating entities, and are monitored by ALCM teams. The ratio describes current loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year. In general, customer loans are assumed to be renewed and are included in the numerator of the advances to core funding ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date. Reverse repo arrangements are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio. Stressed coverage ratios Stressed coverage ratios are derived from stressed cash flow scenario analyses and express the stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over one-month and three-month time horizons. The stressed cash inflows include: • inflows (net of assumed haircuts) expected to be generated from the realisation of liquid assets; and • contractual cash inflows from maturing assets that are not already reflected as a utilisation of liquid assets. In line with the approach adopted for the advances to core funding ratio, customer loans are, in general, assumed not to generate any cash inflows under stress scenarios and are therefore excluded from the numerator of the stressed coverage ratios, irrespective of the contractual maturity date. A stressed coverage ratio of 100% or higher reflects a positive cumulative cash flow under the stress scenario being monitored. Group operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months under the combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario defined by the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity concerned. Compliance with operating entity limits is monitored by ALCM teams and reported monthly to the Risk Management Meeting for the main operating entities and to regional ALCOs for the smaller operating entities. Stressed scenario analysis We use a number of standard Group stress scenarios designed to model: • combined market-wide and HSBC-specific liquidity crisis scenarios; and • market-wide liquidity crisis scenarios. 262 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) These scenarios are modelled by all operating entities. The appropriateness of the assumptions for each scenario is reviewed by ALCM regularly and formally approved by the Risk Management Meeting and the Board annually as part of the liquidity and funding risk appetite approval process. Stressed cash outflows are determined by applying a standard set of prescribed stress assumptions to the Group’s cash flow model. Our framework prescribes the use of two market-wide scenarios and three further combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios of increasing severity. In addition to our standard stress scenarios, individual operating entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and funding bases. The three combined market-wide and HSBC-specific scenarios model a more severe scenario than the two market-wide scenarios. The relevant combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario that an operating entity manages to is based upon its inherent liquidity risk categorisation. The key assumptions factored into the three combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios are summarised as follows: • all non-core deposits are deemed to be withdrawn within three months (80% within one month), with the level of non-core deposits dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk categorisation; • the ability to access interbank funding and unsecured term debt markets ceases for the duration of the scenario; • the ability to generate funds from illiquid asset portfolios (securitisation and secured borrowing) is restricted to 25-75% of the lower of issues in the last six months or the expected issues in the next six months. The restriction is based on current market conditions and is dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk categorisation; • the ability to access repo funding ceases for any asset not classified as liquid under our liquid asset policy for the duration of the scenario; • drawdowns on committed lending facilities must be consistent with the severity of the market stress being modelled and dependent on the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity; • outflows are triggered by a defined downgrade in long-term ratings. We maintain an on-going assessment of the appropriate number of notches to reflect; • customer loans are assumed to be renewed at contractual maturity; • interbank loans and reverse repos are assumed to run off contractually; and • assets defined as liquid assets are assumed to be realised in cash ahead of their contractual maturity, after applying a defined stressed haircut of up to 20%. Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating entities Stressed scenario analysis and the numerator of the coverage ratio include the assumed cash inflows that would be generated from the realisation of liquid assets, after applying the appropriate stressed haircut. These assumptions are made based on management’s expectation of when an asset is deemed to be realisable. Liquid assets are unencumbered assets that meet the Group’s definition of liquid assets and are either held outright or as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity beyond the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored. Any unencumbered asset held as a result of reverse repo transactions with a contractual maturity within the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored is excluded from the stock of liquid assets and instead reflected as a contractual cash inflow. Our framework defines the asset classes that can be assessed locally as high quality and realisable within one month and between one month and three months. Each local ALCO has to be satisfied that any asset which may be treated as liquid in accordance with the Group’s liquid asset policy will remain liquid under the stress scenario being managed to. Inflows from the utilisation of liquid assets within one month can generally only be based on confirmed withdrawable central bank deposits, gold or the sale or repo of government and quasi-government exposures generally restricted to those denominated in the sovereign’s domestic currency. High quality ABSs (predominantly US MBSs) and covered bonds are also included but inflows assumed for these assets are capped. Inflows after one month are also reflected for high quality non-financial and non-structured corporate bonds and equities within the most liquid indices. 263 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Internal categorisation Cash inflow recognised Asset classes Level 1 Within one month Central government Central bank (including confirmed withdrawable reserves) Supranationals Multilateral development banks Level 2 Within one month but capped Local and regional government Public sector entities Secured covered bonds and pass-through ABSs Gold Level 3 From one to three months Unsecured non-financial entity securities Equities listed on recognised exchanges and within liquid indices Any entity owned and controlled by central or local/regional government but not explicitly guaranteed is treated as a public sector entity. Any exposure explicitly guaranteed is reflected as an exposure to the ultimate guarantor. In terms of the criteria used to ensure liquid assets are of a high quality, the Group’s liquid asset policy sets out the following additional criteria: 1. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 2. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held offshore must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 3. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in a currency other than the currency of the related sovereign (i.e. foreign currency) must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology and issued in a limited number of major currencies, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. The treatment of eurozone countries using the euro as their domestic currency depends on whether the exposures are held onshore in the domestic banking system or offshore. Central bank and central government exposures held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets under criteria 1, but central bank and central government exposures held offshore are considered to be denominated in a foreign currency and considered under criteria 3. 4. Local/regional government exposures held onshore and considered by the local regulator to be the same risk as central government exposures can be considered central government exposures. 5. Supranationals and multilateral development banks must be 0% risk weighted under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 6. To qualify as a level 2 liquid asset the exposure must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology. 7. To qualify as a level 3 liquid asset an unsecured non-financial corporate debt exposure must satisfy a minimum internal rating requirement. Wholesale debt monitoring Where wholesale debt term markets are accessed to raise funding, ALCO is required to establish cumulative rolling three-month and 12-month debt maturity limits to ensure no concentration of maturities within these timeframes. Liquidity behaviouralisation Liquidity behaviouralisation is applied to reflect our assessment of the expected period for which we are confident that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the expected period for which we must assume that we will need to fund our assets. Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms do not reflect the expected behaviour. Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed and approved by local ALCO in compliance with policies set by the Risk Management Meeting. Our approach to liquidity risk management will often 264 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) mean a different approach is applied to assets and liabilities. For example, management may assume a shorter life for liabilities and a longer-term funding requirement for assets. Contingent liquidity risk Operating entities provide customers with committed facilities and committed backstop lines to the conduit vehicles we sponsor. These facilities increase our funding requirements when customers draw down. The liquidity risk associated with the potential drawdown on non-cancellable committed facilities is factored into our stressed scenarios and limits are set for these facilities. Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk Our liquidity and funding risk framework also considers the ability of each entity to continue to access foreign exchange markets under stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet a deficit in another currency, for example, by the use of the foreign currency swap markets. Where appropriate, operating entities are required to monitor stressed coverage ratios and advances to core funding ratios for non-local currencies. HSBC Holdings (Audited) HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance. Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders. HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising. HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance. The wide range of our activities means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single source of profits to fund its dividend payments to shareholders. Market risk Overview of market risk in global businesses The diagram below illustrates the main business areas where trading and non-trading market risks reside. Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures (Audited) We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures. These include sensitivity analysis, value at risk (‘VAR’), stressed VAR and stress testing. While VAR provides the GMB with a measure of the market risk in the Group, sensitivity analysis and VAR are more commonly utilised for the management of the business units. Stress testing and stressed VAR complement these measures with potential losses arising from market turmoil. 265 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings and our various global businesses. These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets, where 85% of the total value at risk of HSBC Holdings (excluding Insurance) and almost all trading VAR resides, using risk limits approved by the GMB. Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in determining the level of limits set. Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk management policies and measurement techniques. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily basis. The risk appetite is governed according to the framework illustrated below. Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local Global Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO. Our aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations that have the necessary skills, tools, management and governance to manage them professionally. In certain cases where the market risks cannot be fully transferred, we identify the impact of varying scenarios on valuations or on net interest income resulting from any residual risk positions. Further details on the control and management process for residual risks are provided on pages 268 to 269. Sensitivity analysis (Unaudited) We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type, for example, the present value of a basis point movement in interest rates for interest rate risk. Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set. Value at risk and stressed value at risk (Audited) VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. Stressed VAR is primarily used for Regulatory Capital purposes but is integrated into the risk management process to facilitate efficient capital management and to highlight possible high-risk positions based on previous market volatility. Both the VAR and Stressed VAR models we use are based predominantly on historical simulation. These models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking into account inter-relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures. The historical simulation models used incorporate the following features: • historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities; • potential market movements utilised for VAR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years, • (unaudited) potential market movements employed for stressed VAR calculations are based on a continuous one-year period of stress for the trading portfolio; the choice of period (March 2008 to February 2009) is based on the assessment at the Group level of the most volatile period in recent history; and 266 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • VAR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period scaled to 10 days, whereas stressed VAR uses a 10-day holding period. The nature of the VAR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VAR without any changes in the underlying positions. We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers. We expect on average to see losses in excess of VAR 1% of the time over a one-year period. Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. For example: • the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly those which are extreme in nature; • the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset in one day. This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully; • the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence; • VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day exposures; and • VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under significant market moves. Our VAR model is designed to capture significant basis risks such as CDS vs bond, asset swap spreads and cross-currency basis. Other basis risks which are not completely covered in VAR, such as the Libor tenor basis, are complemented by our risk-not-in-VAR calculations and are integrated into our capital framework. Stress testing is also used as one of the market risk tools for managing basis risks. Stress testing (Audited) In recognition of the limitations of VAR, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. Stress testing is implemented at the legal entity, regional and the overall Group levels. A standard set of scenarios is utilised consistently across all regions within the Group. Scenarios are tailored in order to capture the relevant events or market movements at each level. The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored against referral limits. The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk management, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: • single risk factor stress scenarios that are unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, such as the break of a currency peg; • technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market correlation; • hypothetical scenarios consider potential macroeconomic events, for example, the slowdown in mainland China and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects; and • historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress which would not be captured within VAR. Stress testing results are submitted to the GMB and Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) meetings in order to provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have. In addition, the reverse stress test is based upon the premise that there is a fixed loss. The stress test process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss. The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications. Stressed VAR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk (see page 268), provide management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VAR. HSBC appetite for tail risk is limited. 267 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Trading portfolios (Audited) Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems. Gap risk Certain transactions are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market conditions or events, however, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss. A gap event could arise from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure. Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible. Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VAR or to traditional market risk sensitivity measures. We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis. We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk where significant. Gap risk derived from certain transactions in legacy portfolios continued to be managed down during 2012. The residual exposure is immaterial. We did not incur any material gap loss in 2012. ABS/MBS exposures The ABS/MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR limits as described on page 220, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above. Non-trading portfolios (Audited) The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income. Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts. Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the books managed by Global Markets or the local ALCO. The net exposure is typically managed through the use of interest rate swaps within agreed limits. The VAR for these portfolios is included within the Group VAR. Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and VAR. The VAR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval. Available for sale equity securities Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. Structural foreign exchange exposures (Unaudited) Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the 268 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. An entity’s functional currency is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. We use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries. We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question. We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge. Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved. Sensitivity of net interest income (Unaudited) A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling). We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue stream. Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC. The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated net interest income. Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Group’s current interest rate risk profile. This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by Balance Sheet Management or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk. In reality, Balance Sheet Management seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues. The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the up shock scenario. Rates are not assumed to become negative in the down shock scenario which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock. In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes. Defined benefit pension schemes (Audited) Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members. Pension scheme assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates (and credit risk) vary. There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer. Management, together with the trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external actuaries, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly. 269 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) HSBC Holdings (Audited) As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity. Its activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; allocating these capital resources across our businesses; earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses; providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings’ equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources. It does not take proprietary trading positions. The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in economic income, cash flows and distributable reserves. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO, which reviews foreign exchange VAR, repricing gap and net interest income and EVE sensitivities on a monthly basis. HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk arising on certain long-term debt capital issues for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Changes in the market values of these swaps are recognised directly in the income statement. HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to final maturity with the accumulated changes in market value consequently trending to zero. Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient are accounted for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due to exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement. These loans, and the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis. Operational risk (Unaudited) The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB. Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Group Risk, and a formal governance structure provides oversight over its management. The Group Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and supports the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee. It is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operational risk management framework (‘ORMF’), monitoring the level of operational losses and the effectiveness of the control environment. It is also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, including the preparation of reports for consideration by the Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee. The Global Operational Risk and Control Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the ORMF. The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions. The ORMF has been codified in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies, which describe our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and give guidance on mitigating action to be taken when weaknesses are identified. Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control, commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data. A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process. Operational risk and control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units. Business and functional management and Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings. To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under US$10,000. Losses are entered into the operational risk system and are reported to the Group Operational Risk function quarterly. For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures report as at 31 December 2012, page 61. 270 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Compliance risk (Unaudited) Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk. All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. These rules, regulations, other standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, conduct of business, counter-terrorist financing and sanctions compliance. The Global Compliance Function is a control function, working as part of our Global Risk Function. It is responsible for resourcing decisions, performance reviews, objectives, strategy, budget and accountability within the Compliance Function and is empowered to set standards and has the authority to ensure those standards are met. The Group’s Compliance Function is currently being reorganised under a Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and a Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, each of whom reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer. There are compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses lines. These compliance teams are principally overseen by Regional Compliance Officers located in Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific and each business line is supported by a Global Business Compliance Officer. There is an Assurance team within Compliance that reviews the effectiveness of the Regional and Global Business Compliance Officers. Global Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Group Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant requirement. These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-year and year-end by all Group companies detailing any known breaches as above. The contents of these escalation and certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board and disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, if appropriate. Legal risk (Unaudited) Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group standards. Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: • contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and/or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual relationship are defective; • dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or managing a potential or actual dispute; • legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates; and • non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company’s assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another party’s rights. We have a global legal function to assist management in controlling legal risk. There are legal departments in 58 of the countries in which we operate. There are also regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels as well as General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses. Global security and fraud risk (Unaudited) Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk. This unit, which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business intelligence is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function. This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate. The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective protection measures are in place against all forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part of the business. To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all types 271 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) of fraud (e.g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations), is established within one management structure and is part of the Global Risk function. We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud. For example, customers’ credit and debit card spending is monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud. We have a fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best practices to detect fraud and minimise false alerts. We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy comprising fraud prevention policies and practices, the implementation of strong internal controls, an investigations response team and liaison with law enforcement where appropriate. The Contingency Risk function is responsible for ensuring that in any circumstances where our employees, customers or buildings are exposed to a disaster or other catastrophic event, normal business operations can be restored promptly. Within this wider risk, Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for the recovery, seeking to minimise the adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a range of actual or emerging risks. The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, revenue generation and the integrity of data and documents. Each business has its own recovery plan, which is developed following the completion of a Business Impact Analysis. This determines how much time the business could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes unacceptable, i.e. its criticality. These plans are reviewed and tested every year. The planning is undertaken against Group policy and standards and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met. Should there be exceptions, these are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional business continuity teams. It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible pandemics and the eurozone crisis. The operational risk framework is used to measure our resilience to these risks, and is confirmed to Group and regional risk committees. Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures. These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery times of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, requiring critical vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group insurance appropriate cover for business interruption costs. Systems risk (Unaudited) Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily execution (application systems) and the systems infrastructure on which they reside (data centres, networks and distributed computers). The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HSBC Technology and Services (‘HTS’) organisation. Oversight is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview of existing and emerging top risks. HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using Risk and Control Assessments and Top Risk Analysis. Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographic and line of business boundaries. Business critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body. Quantitative scorecards, called Risk Appetite Statements, have been established for each of these services. Vendor risk management (Unaudited) Our vendor risk management (‘VRM’) is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, especially where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers. VRM contains a rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and mitigate these risks. 272 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Fiduciary risk (Unaudited) Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent should only be undertaken within designated lines of business. Fiduciary risk is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of key indicators. The Group’s principal fiduciary businesses (‘designated businesses’) are: • HSBC Securities Services, where it is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Securities Services and Corporate Trust activities; • HSBC Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment activities on behalf of clients; • HSBC Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its Private Wealth Services division and discretionary investment management; and • HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes when providing insurance products and services. The Group’s requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the Fiduciary Functional Instruction Manual (‘Fiduciary FIM’), which is owned by Group Operational Risk. No business other than the designated businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific dispensations from the relevant Fiduciary FIM requirements. Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the management of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks. Risk management of insurance operations Overview of insurance products (Audited) The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: Life insurance business • life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’); • credit life insurance business; • annuities; • term assurance and critical illness policies; • linked life insurance; • investment contracts with DPF; • unit-linked investment contracts; and • other investment contracts (including pension contracts written in Hong Kong). Non-life insurance business Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, repayment protection and commercial insurance. Nature and extent of risks (Audited) The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised between insurance risk and financial risks; financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Operational and sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Group’s overall respective risk management processes. The following sections describe how insurance risk and financial risks are managed. The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 123 to 251, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section. The consolidated liquidity risk and market risk disclosures focus on banking entities and exclude insurance operations. Disclosures specific to the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section on pages 232 to 245. 273 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Insurance manufacturers set their own control procedures in addition to complying with guidelines issued by the Group Insurance Head Office. The control framework for monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee, which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations. Five sub-committees of this Committee focus on products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk and insurance risk, respectively. The Group Insurance Risk Management Committee monitors the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB. Any issues requiring escalation from the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee would be reported to the RBWM Risk Management Committee. In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly for life business where the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities are reviewed. All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process prior to introduction. Approval by Group Insurance Head Office may be required depending on the type of product and its risk profile. The approval process is formalised through the Product and Pricing Committee, which comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions within insurance. Insurance risk (Audited) Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities. Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and locally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements. Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing. As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk. Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers. Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer. The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below. The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers. These typically reflect the issuers’ own experiences. The type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably. • mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities. The risks are monitored on a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of experience; • lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders. A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis; and • expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and/or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline. Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions (see ‘Sensitivity analysis’ on page 245). The main risks associated with non-life business are: • underwriting: the risk that premiums are not appropriate for the cover provided; and • claims experience: the risk that claims exceed expectations. 274 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) We manage these risks through pricing (for example, imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and conditions), product design, risk selection, claims handling and reinsurance policy. The majority of our non-life insurance contracts are renewable annually, providing added flexibility to the underwriting terms and conditions. Financial risks (Audited) Our Insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks. The nature and management of these risks is described below. Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts. In many jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities. These requirements complement Group-wide policies. Market risk (Audited) Description of market risk The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below. Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. When the asset yields are below guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued, repriced or restructured. A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below. Categories of guaranteed benefits • annuities in payment; • deferred/immediate annuities: these consist of two phases – the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase; • annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate. This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract; and • capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses. The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. Subsidiaries with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses. An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee to the policyholder. Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at any time. When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk. In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions. A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based. These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiary’s local currency. Where the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes the subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets. For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets. Asset and liability matching It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly 275 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available. We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities. The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates. Of particular importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which can extend for many years. Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the current market. As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current issues. We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business. Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be necessary. How market risk is managed All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain. They manage market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write. Techniques for managing market risk • for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders. The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder; • structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows; • using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows; • for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure; • periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products; • including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies; • exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable; and • repricing of premiums charged to policyholders. In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed. When, for example, options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate risk management procedures are in place. For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office. Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion. How the exposure to market risk is measured Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance Head Office. Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in the Group, including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk Management Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group. In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk exposure against risk appetite. This is submitted to Group Insurance Head Office and a global assessment presented to the RBWM RMC. Standard measures for quantifying market risks • for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values; • for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country; and • for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency. The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations. The most significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates. Non-linearity arises, for example, from 276 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies. We bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the guaranteed benefits. We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant. The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office and risk committees every quarter. See also ‘Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance subsidiaries to market risk factors’ on page 240) which indicates the sensitivity of insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors. Credit risk (Audited) Description of credit risk Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: i) risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and shareholders; and ii) risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk. How credit risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information. Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk Committee and the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee. Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head Office on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities. The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting. We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group Insurance Head Office and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment. Liquidity risk (Audited) Description of liquidity risk It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk. There are three aspects to liquidity risk. The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk; specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations. Secondly, market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price. Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions. How liquidity risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following sources of cash inflows: • premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products; • interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments; • cash resources; and 277 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) • the sale of investments. They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: • matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and liability matching techniques such as duration matching; • maintaining sufficient cash resources; • investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist; • monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers; and • establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities. Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above. Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee. Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows. This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected. Reputational risk (Unaudited) We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk. This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations. We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks to our business. Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes. As a banking group, our good reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, to whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves. Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee (‘GRRPC’), which is chaired by the Group Chairman. The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Global Standards Steering Committee for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk. Reputational Risk Policy Committees, which have been established in each of the Group’s geographical regions, are required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level. Minutes from the regional committees are tabled at GRRPC. Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions. Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Committee, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards. These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system (see page 332), are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training. The policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption measures and employee relations. The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices. Pension risk (Audited) We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements, the Pension risk section on page 224 and below. Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’). In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies (and, in some instances, employees) make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the 278 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) scheme’s trustees (where relevant). The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities. The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBC’s cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members. However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan. The agreed contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially. A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including • investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits. This could arise, for example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held; • the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt); • a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities; and • scheme members living longer than expected (known as longevity risk). A plan’s investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and its consequential impact on potential future contributions. The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: • to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term; and • to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans. In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes. In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance. The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances. The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review. Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a Management Committee. The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions. Pension plans in the UK The largest plan globally exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC. This comprises a funded final salary defined benefit plan (‘the principal plan’), which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established in July 1996 for new employees. The principal plan, which accounts for approximately 70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, is overseen by a corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension scheme. The Trustee is responsible for monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits. The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid. The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made and the need for adequate diversification is taken into account in the choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the Defined Benefit Section. Longevity risk in the principal plan is assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed through the funding process of the scheme. Pension plans in Hong Kong In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC. The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme. The defined benefit section of the scheme is a final salary lump sum scheme and therefore its exposure to longevity risk is limited; it was closed to new members from 1999. 279 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) The trustee assumes the overall responsibility for the scheme but a management committee and a number of sub-committees have also been established. These committees have been established to broaden the governance and manage the concomitant issues. The finance and investment sub-committee manages the various issues in relation to both assets and liabilities of the scheme. Pension plans in North America The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and other HSBC entities in the US who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation requirement. The Retirement Income Plan is a funded defined benefit plan which provides final average pay benefits to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants. Prior to 1 January 2013 all new employees participate in the cash balance section of the plan. In November 2009, the Board of Directors of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. (‘HNAH’) approved actions to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under the final average pay formula components of the HSBC North America Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 January 2011. The Plan is governed by the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (‘ERISA’), ERISA regulations serve as guidance for the management of plan assets. In this regard, an Investment Committee (the ‘Committee’) for the Plan has been established and its members have been appointed by the Chief Executive Officer as authorized by the Board of Directors of HSBC North America. The Committee is responsible for establishing the funding policy and investment objectives supporting the Plan including allocating the assets of the Plan, monitoring the diversification of the Plan’s investments and investment performance, assuring the Plan does not violate any provisions of ERISA and the appointment, removal and monitoring of investment advisers and the trustee. A key factor shaping the Committee’s attitude towards risk is the generally long-term nature of the underlying benefit obligations. The asset allocation decision reflects this long-term horizon as well as the ability and willingness to accept some short-term variability in the performance of the portfolio in exchange for the expectation of competitive long-term investment results for its participants. Sustainability risk (Unaudited) Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development; in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits. Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate. Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks. Group Corporate Sustainability’s risk management responsibilities include: • formulating sustainability risk policies. This includes oversight of our sustainability risk standards, management of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and sector-based sustainability policies covering those sectors with high environmental or social impacts (forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and defence-related lending); undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude; • building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending and investment activities on sustainable development; and • providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher. 280 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Capital Page App1 Tables Page Capital overview 282 Capital ratios 282 Capital management 293 Approach and policy 293 Stress testing 293 Risks to capital 293 Risk-weighted asset targets 294 Capital generation 294 Capital measurement and allocation 294 Regulatory capital 294 Pillar 1 capital requirements 295 Pillar 2 capital requirements 296 Pillar 3 disclosure requirements 296 Risk-weighted assets 282 RWAs by risk type 282 Market risk RWAs 282 RWAs by global businesses 282 RWAs by geographical regions 283 Credit risk RWAs 283 RWA movement by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 283 Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs 284 RWA movement by key driver – counterparty credit risk – IRB only 284 RWA movement by key driver – market risk – internal model based 284 Operational risk RWAs 285 RWA movement by key driver – basis ofpreparation and supporting notes 296 Credit risk drivers – definitions and quantification 296 Market risk drivers – definitions and quantification 298 Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012 285 Source and application of total regulatory capital 285 Capital structure 286 Composition of regulatory capital 286 Regulatory impact of management actions 287 Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory balance sheets 287 Regulatory and accounting consolidations 288 Basel III and its implementation in Europe 288 Basis of preparation of the estimated effectof the CRD IV end point applied to the31 December 2012 position 298 Estimated effect of CRD IV end point rules applied to the 31 December 2012 position 289 Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment 298 Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV 300 Future developments 291 Systemically important banks 291 UK regulatory reform 291 Structural banking reform 292 1 Appendix to Capital 281 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Our objective in the management of Group capital is to maintain appropriate levels of capital to support our business strategy and meet our regulatory requirements. Capital highlights • Core tier 1 capital ratio 12.3%, up from 10.1% in 2011, as a result of capital generation and management actions. • CRD IV, which implements Basel III in Europe, remains unfinalised and the timetable for implementation is uncertain. Capital overview Capital ratios (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 2011 % % Core tier 1 ratio 12.3 10.1 Tier 1 ratio 13.4 11.5 Total capital ratio 16.1 14.1 Our approach to managing Group capital has been to ensure that we exceed current, and are well placed to meet expected future, regulatory requirements. Within the remit of Pillar 2, the FSA has defined a common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital resources floor for the Group. This is expressed as a minimum target CETI ratio calculated on a Basel III end point basis, to be achieved by December 2013. In effect this accelerates our full implementation date for Basel III even though there remains uncertainty around the precise requirements in Europe. We currently manage our capital position to meet an internal target CET1 ratio in the range 9.5%-10.5% for 31 December 2013 and will review this on an ongoing basis. The eligibility requirements in the UK for non-equity capital securities, under Basel III rules, remained under review so we did not issue any such capital securities during 2012. A summary of our policies and practices regarding capital management, measurement and allocation is provided in the Appendix to Capital on page 294. Risk-weighted assets RWAs by risk type (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Credit risk 898,416 958,189 Standardised approach 374,469 372,039 IRB foundation approach 10,265 8,549 IRB advanced approach 513,682 577,601 Counterparty credit risk 48,319 53,792 Standardised approach1 2,645 3,163 IRB approach 45,674 50,629 Market risk 54,944 73,177 Operational risk 122,264 124,356 Total 1,123,943 1,209,514 Of which: Run-off portfolios 145,689 181,657 Legacy credit in GB&M 38,587 50,023 US CML and Other 107,102 131,634 Card and Retail Services2 6,858 52,080 For footnotes, see page 292. Market risk RWAs (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m VAR 7,616 11,345 Stressed VAR 11,048 19,117 Incremental risk charge 11,062 5,249 Comprehensive risk measure 3,387 6,013 Other VAR and stressed VAR 11,355 12,957 Internal model based 44,468 54,681 FSA standard rules 10,476 18,496 54,944 73,177 RWAs by global businesses (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012US$bn 2011US$bn Retail Banking and WealthManagement 276.6 351.2 Commercial Banking 397.0 382.9 Global Banking and Markets 403.1 423.0 Global Private Banking 21.7 22.5 Other 25.5 29.9 Total 1,123.9 1,209.5 282 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) RWAs by geographical regions3 (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012US$bn 2011US$bn Total 1,123.9 1,209.5 Europe 314.7 340.2 Hong Kong 111.9 105.7 Rest of Asia-Pacific 302.2 279.3 MENA 62.2 58.9 North America 253.0 337.3 Latin America 97.9 102.3 For footnote, see page 292. RWAs reduced by US$86bn to US$1,124bn in 2012, due to a combination of management actions and business growth. Credit risk RWAs (Unaudited) Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three approaches as permitted by the UK regulator. For consolidated Group reporting we have adopted the advanced IRB approach for the majority of our business, with a small proportion on the foundation IRB approach and the remaining portfolios being on the standardised approach. For portfolios treated under the standardised approach, credit risk RWA movements were primarily due to the increase of US$30bn in our associates in mainland China, mainly from loan growth in BoCom and Industrial Bank. This was partially offset by the first tranche sale of Ping An, which resulted in its banking subsidiary no longer being included in the regulatory consolidation for RWAs. The remaining holding, at year end, was treated as a deduction from capital, giving a year-on-year reduction in RWAs of US$21bn. For further details see page 39. In Europe, a reduction in standardised RWAs for CMB and GB&M of US$6.5bn reflected reduced corporate lending in selected eurozone countries and a movement to the IRB supervisory slotting approach for the shipping portfolio in Greece. In Latin America, corporate lending growth in the region was more than offset by the reduction in corporate exposure from the sale of operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras, and the managing down of vehicle finance and payroll loan portfolios in Brazil. Credit risk RWA movements by key driver for portfolios treated under the IRB approach are set out in the table below. For the basis of preparation, see the Appendix to Capital on page 298. Foreign exchange movements had an impact of US$6.2bn; the discussion of the remaining drivers excludes the effect of foreign exchange. RWA movement by key driver – credit risk – IRB only (Unaudited) EuropeUS$bn Hong KongUS$bn Rest ofAsia- PacificUS$bn MENAUS$bn NorthAmericaUS$bn LatinAmericaUS$bn TotalUS$bn RWAs at 1 January 2012 156.5 68.0 82.3 12.9 254.5 12.0 586.2 Foreign exchange movement 4.7 0.1 0.8 (0.2 ) 0.7 0.1 6.2 Acquisitions and disposals – – (0.1 ) (0.7 ) (40.3 ) (0.9 ) (42.0 ) Book size (1.8 ) 3.6 5.4 1.0 (7.6 ) (0.6 ) – Book quality (6.6 ) 1.5 (1.1 ) (0.3 ) (17.9 ) 0.1 (24.3 ) Model updates 0.4 – – 0.1 – – 0.5 Portfolios moving onto IRB approach 1.4 – – 0.1 – – 1.5 New/updated models (1.0 ) – – – – – (1.0 ) Methodology and policy (2.5 ) (3.0 ) 4.8 (0.2 ) (2.3 ) 0.5 (2.7 ) Internal updates (1.3 ) (3.0 ) 4.8 (0.2 ) (2.3 ) 0.5 (1.5 ) External updates (1.2 ) – – – – – (1.2 ) Total RWA movement (5.8 ) 2.2 9.8 (0.3 ) (67.4 ) (0.8 ) (62.3 ) RWAs at 31 December 2012 150.7 70.2 92.1 12.6 187.1 11.2 523.9 Management actions in the North America RBWM business, most notably the disposal of the Card and Retail Services business and the non-strategic branches in upstate New York, reduced RWAs by US$40bn. Movements in book quality in the RBWM North America retail business accounted for US$14bn of the US$18bn reduction in RWAs. These retail reductions were mainly due to a refinement in risk metrics for mortgage exposures with a US$6.1bn RWA impact attained through 283 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) recalibration with more recent data observations. Further reductions of US$7.4bn were due to positive credit quality migration and the progression of assets into default as a result of the challenging conditions in the US mortgage market. As assets approach and go into default, capital requirements are increasingly reflected in an expected loss deduction from capital, rather than having a direct effect on RWAs (see ‘Deductions’ within ‘Composition of regulatory capital’ on page 286). Additionally, RBWM continued to manage down the residual balances in our North America retail portfolios through a combination of run-off and write-off which resulted in a reduction in RWAs of US$12bn. In our North America wholesale portfolios, there was an increase in book size with RWA growth of US$4.9bn, mainly in our CMB and GB&M businesses. This was partially offset by favourable movements in book quality for those portfolios which reduced RWAs by US$4.5bn. Corporate and commercial lending and trade finance activity in our CMB and GB&M businesses were the primary drivers of the book size RWA growth of US$9.0bn in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Hong Kong, while the book quality was relatively stable overall. Data enhancements in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Hong Kong allowed us to improve the quantification of exposure and risk metrics, and are reflected in internal methodology and policy updates. In Europe, rating agency actions on ABSs held in GB&M business were one of the main drivers for the movement in book quality of a reduction of US$6.6bn in RWAs. Lower grade investments are deducted from capital rather than risk-weighted, such that the effect is reflected in reduced RWAs and increased capital deductions (see ‘Deductions’ within ‘Composition of regulatory capital’ on page 286). Other drivers of the movement in book quality included an improvement in the credit quality of the corporate portfolio in CMB and retail portfolios in RBWM. Reductions in the Europe IRB book size were from lower corporate and institutional exposures in GB&M, partly offset by corporate exposure growth in the top CMB markets. A change in methodology for the regulatory treatment of European Economic Area (‘EEA’) central bank exposures, to include them in the standardised approach, resulted in a reduction of US$1.2bn. In the Middle East and Latin America, book size and book quality levels were stable, with the main credit risk RWA movements reflecting mergers and acquisitions, including purchases in Oman and the UAE and disposals in Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador. Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs (Unaudited) Trading portfolio movements for the modelled approaches to market risk and counterparty credit risk (‘CCR’) RWAs are outlined in the tables below. For the basis of preparation, see the Appendix to Capital on page 295. RWA movement by key driver – counterparty credit risk – IRB only (Unaudited) US$bn RWAs at 1 January 2012 50.6 Book size (0.8 ) Book quality 0.1 Model updates (0.2 ) Methodology and policy (4.0 ) Internal updates (4.0 ) External updates – Total RWA movement (4.9 ) RWAs at 31 December 2012 45.7 CCR RWAs decreased by US$4.9bn during the year, primarily due to methodology and policy changes in GB&M. The main drivers of the change arose through the increased application of counterparty netting within the calculation and from counterparty data refinement which allowed us to apply lower potential future exposure add-on factors. There were reductions in book size in North America, due to a decrease in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio and from maturing trades, and in Latin America due to reduced repo activity with central banks and lower exposure in respect of derivative transactions. RWA movement by key driver – market risk – internal model based (Unaudited) US$bn RWAs at 1 January 2012 54.7 Foreign exchange movement and other (0.4 ) Movement in risk levels (7.4 ) Model updates – Methodology and policy (2.4 ) Internal updates (2.4 ) External updates – Total RWA movement (10.2 ) RWAs at 31 December 2012 44.5 284 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk RWAs decreased by US$10bn in 2012 with the main driver being a reduction in risk levels of US$11bn in GB&M, primarily as a result of decreasing VAR due to reductions in exposure and improvements in market conditions. The factors affecting the reductions in VAR also drove the reductions in the levels of stressed VAR. The effect was partly offset by a US$4.0bn risk level increase in the incremental risk charge as a result of a recalibration of the sovereign correlation matrix. RWA changes due to methodology and policy of US$2.4bn were due to a reduction in the VAR multiplier in France. Market risk RWA movements for portfolios not within scope of modelled approaches showed a reduction of US$8.0bn. This was mainly driven by management actions by GB&M to reduce legacy positions in North America. Operational risk RWAs (Unaudited) Operational risk RWAs remained stable in 2012, being calculated on a three-year average of revenues. Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012 (Audited) Source and application of total regulatory capital At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Movement in total regulatory capital (Audited) Opening core tier 1 capital 122,496 116,116 Contribution to core tier 1 capital from profit for the year 17,827 14,011 Consolidated profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company 14,027 16,797 Removal of own credit spread net of tax 3,800 (2,786 ) Net dividends (5,613 ) (5,271 ) Dividends (8,042 ) (7,501 ) Add back: shares issued in lieu of dividends 2,429 2,230 Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deducted 1,686 582 Ordinary shares issued 594 96 Foreign currency translation differences 989 (2,705 ) Other, including regulatory adjustments 810 (333 ) Closing core tier 1 capital 138,789 122,496 Opening other tier 1 capital 17,094 17,063 Hybrid capital securities redeemed (776 ) – Unconsolidated investments (4,120 ) 71 Other, including regulatory adjustments 61 (40 ) Closing tier 1 capital 151,048 139,590 Opening tier 2 capital 30,744 34,376 Redeemed capital (1,483 ) (3,360 ) Other, including regulatory adjustments 497 (272 ) Closing total regulatory capital 180,806 170,334 We complied with the FSA’s capital adequacy requirements throughout 2011 and 2012. Internal capital generation contributed US$12bn to core tier 1 capital, being profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company after regulatory adjustment for own credit spread and net of dividends. The table below sets out the composition of our capital under the current regulatory requirements. 285 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Capital structure Composition of regulatory capital (Audited) At 31 December Ref 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Tier 1 capital Shareholders’ equity 167,360 154,148 Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet4 a 175,242 158,725 Preference share premium b (1,405 ) (1,405 ) Other equity instruments c (5,851 ) (5,851 ) Deconsolidation of special purpose entities5 a (626 ) 2,679 Non-controlling interests 4,348 3,963 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet d 7,887 7,368 Preference share non-controlling interests e (2,428 ) (2,412 ) Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital f (501 ) (496 ) Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries d (610 ) (497 ) Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis (2,437 ) (4,331 ) Unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities6 1,223 2,228 Own credit spread 112 (3,608 ) Defined benefit pension fund adjustment7 g (469 ) (368 ) Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities (3,290 ) (2,678 ) Cash flow hedging reserve (13 ) 95 Deductions (30,482 ) (31,284 ) Goodwill and intangible assets h (25,733 ) (27,419 ) 50% of securitisation positions (1,776 ) (1,207 ) 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses 111 188 50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances i (3,084 ) (2,846 ) Core tier 1 capital 138,789 122,496 Other tier 1 capital before deductions 17,301 17,939 Preference share premium b 1,405 1,405 Preference share non-controlling interests e 2,428 2,412 Hybrid capital securities j 13,468 14,122 Deductions (5,042 ) (845 ) Unconsolidated investments8 (5,153 ) (1,033 ) 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses 111 188 Tier 1 capital 151,048 139,590 Tier 2 capital Total qualifying tier 2 capital before deductions 48,231 48,676 Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities 3,290 2,678 Collective impairment allowances k 2,717 2,660 Perpetual subordinated debt l 2,778 2,780 Term subordinated debt m 39,146 40,258 Non-controlling interests in tier 2 capital f 300 300 Total deductions other than from tier 1 capital (18,473 ) (17,932 ) Unconsolidated investments8 (13,604 ) (13,868 ) 50% of securitisation positions (1,776 ) (1,207 ) 50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances i (3,084 ) (2,846 ) Other deductions (9 ) (11 ) Total regulatory capital 180,806 170,334 For footnotes, see page 292. The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components on page 287 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital. 286 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Regulatory impact of management actions (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 Risk-weightedassets Core tier 1capital Tier 1capital Totalregulatorycapital Reported capital ratios before management actions 12.3% 13.4% 16.1% Reported totals (US$m) 1,123,943 138,789 151,048 180,806 Management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change inaccounting treatment (38,073 ) 981 (423 ) (1,827 ) Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An – 553 4,637 7,984 Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) 1,085,870 140,323 155,262 186,963 Estimated capital ratios after management actions completed in 2013 12.9% 14.3% 17.2% Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory balance sheets (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 Ref Accountingbalancesheet US$m Decon- solidation of insurance/ other entitiesUS$m Consolidation of banking associatesUS$m Regulatorybalancesheet US$m Assets Trading assets 408,811 (144 ) 1,477 410,144 Loans and advances to customersof which: 997,623 (11,957 ) 119,698 1,105,364 – impairment allowances on IRB portfolios i (10,255 ) – – (10,255 ) – impairment allowances on STD portfolios k (5,857 ) – (2,726 ) (8,583 ) Financial investments 421,101 (50,256 ) 33,110 403,955 Capital invested in insurance and other entities – 8,384 – 8,384 Interests in associates and joint ventures 17,834 – (17,127 ) 707 of which: – positive goodwill on acquisition h 670 (640 ) 30 Goodwill and intangible assets h 29,853 (4,983 ) 687 25,557 Other assets 817,316 (34,672 ) 82,469 865,113 of which: – goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups held for sale h 146 (117 ) – 29 – retirement benefits assets g 2,846 – – 2,846 – impairment allowances on asset held for sale (703 ) – – (703 ) of which: – IRB portfolios i (691 ) – – (691 ) – STD portfolios k (12 ) – – (12 ) Total assets 2,692,538 (93,628 ) 220,314 2,819,224 287 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) At 31 December 2012 Ref Accountingbalancesheet US$m Decon- solidation of insurance/ other entitiesUS$m Consolidation of banking associatesUS$m Regulatorybalancesheet US$m Liabilities and equity Deposits by banks 107,429 (202 ) 51,296 158,523 Customer accounts 1,340,014 (652 ) 158,631 1,497,993 Trading liabilities 304,563 (131 ) 119 304,551 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 87,720 (12,437 ) – 75,283 of which: – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 16,863 – – 16,863 – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 4,696 – – 4,696 Debt securities in issue 119,461 (11,390 ) 1,888 109,959 Retirement benefits liabilities g 3,905 (21 ) 52 3,936 Subordinated liabilities 29,479 3 2,953 32,435 of which: – hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 2,828 – – 2,828 – perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital l 2,778 – – 2,778 – term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 23,873 – – 23,873 Other liabilities 516,838 (67,562 ) 5,375 454,651 of which: – contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 301 – – 301 of which: – credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios i 267 – – 267 – credit-related provisions on STD portfolios k 34 – – 34 Total shareholders’ equity a 175,242 (626 ) (0 ) 174,616 of which: – other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital c, j 5,851 – – 5,851 – preference share premium included in tier 1 capital b 1,405 – – 1,405 Non-controlling interests d 7,887 (610 ) 0 7,277 of which: – non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries included in tier 1 capital e 2,428 – – 2,428 – non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, cumulative preferred stock f 300 – – 300 – non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital f,m 201 – – 201 Total liabilities and equity 2,692,538 (93,628 ) 220,314 2,819,224 For footnote, see page 292. The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital on page 286. Regulatory and accounting consolidations (Unaudited) The basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes is described in Note 1 on the Financial Statements and differs from that used for regulatory purposes. The table above provides a reconciliation of the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance sheet. Not all items are reconcilable, due to regulatory adjustments that are applied, for example to non-core capital instruments before they can be included in the Group’s regulatory capital base. It is the regulatory balances, and not the financial accounting balance sheet, which form the basis for the regulatory capital calculations. Investments in banking associates are equity accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their assets and liabilities are proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes. Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and non-financial activities are excluded from the regulatory consolidation and are deducted from regulatory capital. The regulatory consolidation does not include SPEs where significant risk has been transferred to third parties. Exposures to these SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions for regulatory purposes. Entities in respect of which the basis of consolidation for financial accounting purposes differs from that used for regulatory purposes can be found in the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report. Basel III and its implementation in Europe (Unaudited) In July 2011, the European Commission published proposals for a new Regulation and Directive, known collectively as CRD IV, to give effect to the Basel III framework in the EU. The majority of the Basel III proposals are in the Regulation, removing 288 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) national discretion. However, capital buffers such as those for countercyclical and capital conservation are in the Directive and are subject to transposition into national law by member states. CRD IV implementation has been delayed and the timetable for finalisation is uncertain. In October 2012, the FSA wrote to large firms to set out the disclosures they are required to make of capital resources on a first year transitional basis under CRD IV. We have made these disclosures in appendix III of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report. Following the FSA’s setting of a Capital Resources Floor, and in order to manage our transition to Basel III under CRD IV, we provide below some insight for investors of the possible effects of these rules on our capital position. We have estimated our pro-forma CET1 ratio by applying our interpretation of the CRD IV draft July 2011 text post the transition period (end point CRD IV) to our balance sheet position at 31 December 2012. In managing our capital position to meet our internal CET1 target, we consider management actions resulting from our six filters strategy that we either have already taken or would take, if the CRD IV rules were to be finalised in the July 2011 form. These are reflected in the table below under ‘Estimated regulatory impact of management actions’. Other management actions could be taken depending upon the finalised rules and timing of implementation but, as such, have not been included. The application of the CRD IV rules on this basis would translate into an estimated CET1 ratio of 9.0% before management actions and 10.3% after such actions, as detailed in the table below. Estimated effect of CRD IV end point rules applied to the 31 December 2012 position (Unaudited) At 31 December 2012 RWAs US$m Capital US$m Reported core tier 1 capital under the current regime 138,789 Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component(exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock) (1,322 ) Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1 (2,299 ) Removal of filters under current regime – Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt securities (1,223 ) – Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities 2,088 – Reserves arising from revaluation of property 1,202 – Defined benefit pension fund liabilities (1,596 ) Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1 (3,084 ) Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses (111 ) Securitisations positions risk-weighted under CRD IV 1,776 Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles 267 Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences) (456 ) Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as PVA) (1,720 ) Debit valuation adjustment (372 ) Individually immaterial holdings in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance in aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1 (5,994 ) Deductions under threshold approach Amount exceeding the 10% threshold: – Significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance (6,697 ) Amount in aggregate exceeding the 15% threshold: – Significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance (2,265 ) – Deferred tax assets (1,532 ) Estimated CET1 capital under CRD IV 115,451 Reported total RWAs 1,123,943 Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Credit valuation adjustment 60,360 Counterparty credit risk (other than credit valuation adjustment) 25,682 Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight 43,295 Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV 44,513 Investments in commercial entities now risk-weighted 393 Deferred tax assets moved to threshold deduction under CRD IV (8,976 ) Estimated total RWAs under CRD IV 1,289,210 Estimated CET1 ratio 9.0% 289 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) At 31 December 2012 RWAs US$m Capital US$m Estimated regulatory impact of management actions Management actions completed in 2013: Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change in accounting treatment (38,880 ) (2,150 ) Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An 3,522 9,393 Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 1,253,852 122,694 Estimated CET1 ratio after management actions completed in 2013 9.8% Planned short-term management actions if rules are finalised in their current form:Mitigation of immaterial holdings9 2,645 7,052 Estimated total after planned management actions 1,256,497 129,746 Estimated CET1 ratio after planned management actions 10.3% For the detailed basis of preparation, see page 298 of the Appendix to Capital. The table above presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 capital and RWAs position at 31 December 2012 to the pro-forma estimated CET1 end point capital and estimated RWAs based on our interpretation of the July 2011 draft CRD IV regulation, supplemented by FSA guidance and, in lieu of guidance, our expectation of how these draft rules will be updated following EU negotiations. CRD IV is not yet in law and its provisions are subject to ongoing negotiation and amendment. As such, the finalised rules could have a materially different effect on CET1 and RWAs. The CRD IV rule changes introduce a revised definition of regulatory capital, primarily focused on CET1 capital as the predominant form of going concern capital, with a greater quantum to be held by banks. There are increased capital deductions and new regulatory adjustments affecting this higher tier of capital. The new rules also introduce increased RWA requirements, mainly for CCR. The largest impact on our CET1 capital is the deduction of unconsolidated significant investments in banks, financial institutions and insurance entities of US$9.0bn (shown as US$6.7bn and US$2.3bn in the table above). This results from a reallocation of current deductions to this higher tier of capital and new rules for calculating the amounts to be deducted. Adding to the above, the regulatory treatment applied to immaterial unconsolidated investments in banks, financial institutions and insurance entities, whereby a maturity restriction does not recognise the netting of long and short positions when the short position is less than one year residual maturity, even though they are hedged from a market risk perspective. This results in an estimated deduction of US$6.0bn. The effect on capital is exacerbated by its impact on the threshold for other deductions. The rules are currently in draft and subject to ongoing negotiation. If they were to be finalised in their current form, the holdings of such positions would generate a disproportionate capital cost and potentially the relevant business could be curtailed, closed or our hedging would be adjusted to negate the impact. Capital management initiatives and management actions already adopted by the Group, in accordance with our six filters strategic framework, have contributed to mitigating the effect of the future rules. In 2012, this included the continuing run-off of capital intensive portfolios including the US CML and the GB&M legacy credit portfolios and the sale of the Card and Retail Services business. Post year-end, we sold our remaining investment in Ping An and reduced our percentage holding in Industrial Bank following a private placement by the company. Although the effect of the future CRD IV rules is shown above on an end point basis, the rules allow for a transition period of six years to phase in the new deductions and regulatory adjustments. On a CRD IV first year transitional basis our CET1 ratio, if applied to our year end 2012 position, would be 11.5% before management actions. As a result of the capital resources floor, we currently manage our capital position to meet an internal target CET1 ratio on an end point basis for year end 2013. We will continue to manage our capital position to ensure that it exceeds current regulatory requirements and is well placed to meet expected future regulatory requirements. We will review our capital target ratios on an ongoing basis, reflecting any changes in the regulatory environment as they develop. 290 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Future developments Systemically important banks (Unaudited) In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document in July 2011, ‘Global systemically important banks: assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement’. In November 2011, it published its rules and the Financial Stability Board (‘FSB’) issued the initial list of global systemically important banks (‘G-SIB’s). This list, which included HSBC and 28 other major banks from around the world, will be re-assessed periodically through annual re-scoring of the individual banks and a triennial review of the methodology. The requirements, initially for those banks identified in November 2014 as G-SIBs, will be phased in from 1 January 2016, becoming fully effective on 1 January 2019. National regulators have discretion to introduce higher thresholds than the minima. In November 2012, the FSB published a revised list of G-SIBs and their current assessment of the appropriate capital charge. HSBC was assigned an add-on of 2.5%. UK regulatory reform (Unaudited) The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis. However, the UK financial services regulatory structure is currently in the process of substantial reform. Legislation has been passed to abolish the FSA and establish three new regulatory bodies from 1 April 2013. The three new bodies will comprise the Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’) of the Bank of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’). The FPC will not directly supervise firms, being responsible for macro-prudential regulation and considering systemic risk affecting economic and financial stability. The PRA and the FCA will inherit the majority of the FSA’s existing functions as the micro-prudential supervisors. Some subsidiaries such as HSBC Bank will be ‘dual-regulated’ firms, subject to prudential regulation by the PRA and to conduct regulation by the FCA. These reforms will endow the new regulatory bodies with additional powers. For example, under certain circumstances the PRA and FCA will be able to issue directions to unregulated qualifying parent undertakings such as HSBC Holdings. In the case of the FPC, its January 2013 Draft Policy Statement, ‘The Financial Policy Committee’s power to supplement capital requirements’, states that it will have two main powers: the first is to make recommendations, and the second is a power to direct the FCA and the PRA to adjust specific macro-prudential tools, namely the countercyclical capital buffer (‘CCB’) and sectoral capital requirements (‘SCR’s’). The UK Government is proposing to make the FPC responsible for setting the CCB, a Basel III global requirement applied to certain financial institutions in the UK. The CCB is a macro-prudential tool at the disposal of national authorities that can be deployed to protect the banking sector from future potential losses when the FPC judges that threats to financial stability have arisen in the UK which increase system-wide risk. Should a CCB be required, it is expected to be set in the range of 0-2.5%. It is also planned under the new legislation to give the FPC ‘direction power’, over SCR’s. The SCR tool is more targeted and would allow the FPC to change capital requirements above minimum regulatory standards for exposures to three broad sectors judged to pose a risk to the system as a whole (residential property, including mortgages; commercial property; and other parts of the financial sector). However, on occasion this may be applied to more granular sub-sectors (for example, to mortgages with high loan to value or loan to income ratios at origination). This will include both banking book and trading book exposures and be irrespective of the domicile of the ultimate borrower. The CCB and SCR tools are described as broad tools designed to reduce the likelihood and severity of financial crises, their primary purpose being to tackle cyclical risks. They provide the FPC with the means to increase the amount of capital that banks must hold when threats to financial stability are judged to be emerging. However, the scale of capital add-ons in respect of SCR has not been quantified. There is also a proposal for a systemic risk buffer for the banking system as a whole (or a subset thereof) to mitigate structural macro-prudential risk. Potential effect of regulatory proposals on HSBC’s capital requirements Given the above it is uncertain what HSBC’s final capital requirement will be. However, quantified Pillar 1 capital requirements are as follows: CET1 requirements from 1 January 2019 Minimum CET1 4.5% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% G-SIB buffer 2.5% Against the backdrop of eurozone instability, on a temporary basis, the EBA recommended that 291 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) banks aim to reach a 9% EBA defined core tier 1 ratio by the end of June 2012. In October 2012 the EBA announced that they would no longer monitor the core tier 1 ratio but instead expect banks to hold an equivalent nominal amount of capital. This new EBA recommendation on capital conservation will require banks to maintain a nominal amount of core tier 1 capital corresponding to the level of 9% of RWAs at the end of June 2012. This equates to US$104bn for HSBC. We will continue to review our internal target CETI ratio of 9.5% to 10.5% as the applicable regulatory capital requirements evolve during the period until 1 January 2019. We also hold additional capital in respect of Pillar 2, the process of internal capital adequacy assessment and supervisory review which leads to a final determination by the FSA of individual capital guidance and any capital planning buffer that may be required. Complementing the above, and also within the Pillar 2 process, the FSA first advised the Group in 2012 of a capital resources floor. This is expressed as a minimum target CET1 ratio calculated on a Basel III end point basis, to be achieved by December 2013. In 2013 the FSA will introduce new industry-wide capital measures. They will floor all sovereign loss given defaults (‘LGD’s) at 45% and we estimate the effect of this to be an increase of US$19bn RWAs. Additionally, a stringent supervisory slotting approach for our UK commercial real estate portfolio will be introduced. For HSBC, this will roll out across the relevant business during 2013. Furthermore, the FSA have informed HSBC of a framework which will be used when assessing wholesale portfolios with a low number of defaults. This framework will impose LGD and exposure at default (‘EAD’) floors based on the foundation approach for portfolios with less than 20 events of default per country. Structural banking reform (Unaudited) In September 2011, the Independent Commission on Banking (‘ICB’) recommended heightened capital requirements for UK banking groups. In June 2012, the UK Government published its consultation, ‘Banking reform: delivering stability and supporting a sustainable economy’, which set out its detailed proposals for implementing the ICB’s recommendations, such as ring-fencing and bail-in debt. In October 2012, the UK Government published draft primary legislation. This legislation was presented for pre-legislative scrutiny to the UK’s Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards who presented their initial findings in December 2012. In February 2013, the UK Government responded to these findings and issued a revised Bill. The Government intends to enact the legislation by the end of this parliament in 2015 and to have reforms in place by 2019. In October 2012, the Liikanen Report delivered its recommendations to the EC to reform the structure of the European banking sector. This also recommends ring-fencing, focused on isolating trading activities (rather than deposits as in the ICB recommendations) and, in principle, additional bail-in debt. We continue to monitor these developments. Footnotes to Capital 1 The value represents marked-to-market method only. 2 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years’ revenues. For business disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not released immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time. The RWAs for the Card and Retail Services business at 31 December 2012 represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business. 3 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 4 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2012. 5 Mainly comprises unrealised gains/losses on available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs. 6 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains/losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources. 7 Under FSA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period. 8 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities and the AFS investment in Ping An. Due to the expiry of the transitional provision, with effect from 1 January 2013, material insurance holding companies acquired prior to 20 July 2006, will be deducted 50% from tier 1 and 50% from total capital. 9 This management action potentially arises only under rules on a CRD IV basis and has therefore not been included in the composition of regulatory capital table, which is drawn up on the basis of the current rules. 292 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Appendix to Capital Capital management, capital measurement and RWA movement Capital management (Audited) Approach and policy Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate. Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis. The metric combines return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives. It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times. Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner. The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital. Following the FSA setting of a capital resources floor as a Basel III ratio, whilst also monitoring capital at a Group level on a Basel II basis, we set our internal target on an end point Basel III CET1 basis. Capital measures • market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC; • invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off; • economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed; and • regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies. Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks. Stress testing We incorporate stress testing in capital plans because it helps us to understand how sensitive the core assumptions in our capital plans are to the adverse effect of extreme but plausible events. Stress testing allows us to formulate our response and mitigate risk in advance of conditions exhibiting the identified stress scenarios. The actual market stresses which occurred throughout the financial system in recent years have been used to inform our capital planning process and enhance the stress scenarios we employ. In addition to our internal stress tests, others are undertaken, both at the request of regulators and by the regulators themselves using their prescribed assumptions. We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital requirements. Risks to capital Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on the core tier 1 capital ratio. In addition, there are risks identified that are technically not within the scope of this list, but which still have the potential to affect our RWAs and/or capital position. These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital. The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary. The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB. Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking into account capital costs. Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements. 293 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Risk-weighted asset targets Top-down RWA targets are established for the global business lines, in accordance with the Group’s strategic direction and risk appetite. As these targets are deployed to lower levels of management, action plans for implementation are developed. These may include growth strategies; active portfolio management; restructuring; business and/or customer-level reviews; RWA efficiency and optimisation initiatives and risk-mitigation. Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board. RWA targets are approved by the GMB on an annual basis and business performance against them is monitored through regular reporting to the Group ALCO. The management of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items. A range of analysis is employed in the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in the position, such as book size and book quality. Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-to-day control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology. Capital generation HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance and profit retention. As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries. Capital measurement and allocation (Unaudited) The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements. In 2012, we calculated capital at a Group level using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5. Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II rules and Basel III proposals. However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and some local reporting, notably in the US, is still on a Basel I basis. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities. Basel II is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline. The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the latter’s requirements in its own rulebooks. Regulatory capital For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely core tier 1, other tier 1 and tier 2, depending on the degree of permanency and loss absorbency exhibited. • core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders’ equity and related non-controlling interests. The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders’ equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy; • qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital; and • tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available for sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties. To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the FSA’s rules set restrictions on the amount of hybrid capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and limits overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital. 294 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements. These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs. Credit risk capital requirements Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements. The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties. Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories. The next level, the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterparty’s probability of default (‘PD’), but their estimates of exposure at default (‘EAD’) and loss given default (‘LGD’) are subject to standard supervisory parameters. Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD. The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation. Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD. Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances. For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches. Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB approaches. At the end of 2012, portfolios in most of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced IRB approaches. Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment. • Counterparty credit risk CCR arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions. It is calculated in both the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method. These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced. We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR. Our longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach. • Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books. For non-trading book securitisation positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB approaches. Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%. Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital. Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations. The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches. Other traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the FSA. Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the FSA, or the FSA’s standard rules. Our internal market risk models comprise VAR, stressed VAR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure. 295 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Operational risk capital requirement Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication. The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each of eight defined business lines. Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years’ revenues. Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks’ own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital requirements. We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements. Pillar 2 capital requirements We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) to determine a forward looking assessment of our capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan. This process incorporates the Group’s risk management processes and governance framework. A range of stress tests are applied to our base capital plan. These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, are used to assess our internal capital adequacy requirements. The ICAAP is examined by the FSA as part of its Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs periodically to enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC and capital planning buffer where required. Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to publish specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II framework at least annually. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report is published on the HSBC website, www.hsbc.com. RWA movement by key driver - basis of preparation and supporting notes (Unaudited) Credit risk and counterparty credit risk drivers – definitions and quantification The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below. The first four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes. The remaining two, book size and book quality, are derived after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers. 1. Foreign exchange movements This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the HSBC company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting. Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. 2. Acquisitions and disposals This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations. This can be whole businesses or parts of a business. The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the end of the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition. 3. Model updates New/updated models RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models are allocated to this driver. This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling assumptions. Where a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA changes are not assigned here, but instead reported under book quality. RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation. These values are used to simulate the impact of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of 296 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) implementation, assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation phase. Portfolios moving onto IRB approach Where a portfolio moves from the standardised approach to the IRB approach, the RWA movement by key driver statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only. The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing phase as with a new/updated model. 4. Methodology and policy Internal updates This captures the RWA impact resulting from changing the internal treatment of exposures. This may include, but is not limited to, identification of netting and credit risk mitigation. External updates This specifies the impact resulting from additional or changing regulatory requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, regulatory-prescribed changes to the RWA calculation. The movement in RWAs is quantified by comparing the RWAs calculated for that portfolio under the old and the new requirements. 5. Book size RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in exposure, as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile. These RWA movements arise in the normal course of business, such as growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs. The RWA movement is quantified as follows: • RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period. • The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted movement in EAD. This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the EAD to RWA percentage is constant throughout the period. As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the number of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken. For each quarter of 2012 this calculation was performed for each HSBC company with an IRB portfolio, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, as described in the table below: Basel categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC Central governments and central banks Corporate foundation IRB Qualifying revolving retail exposures Institutions Other advanced IRB Retail SME Corporate advanced IRB Retail mortgages Other retail The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table. 6. Book quality This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers. These are caused by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, change in counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book. The change in RWAs attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of all drivers described above. The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB approach. Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not shown in this statement. If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables. In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position. 297 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Market risk drivers – definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called ‘Movements in risk levels’. The market risk RWA driver called ‘Foreign exchange movements and other’ includes foreign exchange movements and additional items which can not be reasonably assigned to any of the other drivers. Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 2012 position. (Unaudited) The table on page 289 presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 and RWA position at 31 December 2012 to the pro-forma estimated CET1 and estimated RWAs based on the Group’s interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV legislation and/or guidance provided by the FSA and, in lieu of guidance, our current expectation of how these draft 2011 rules will be updated by subsequent EU deliberations. CRD IV has not yet become law and its provisions are subject to on-going negotiation and amendment. In addition, formal Implementing Technical Standards (‘ITS’) due for issue by the EBA are still to be drafted and finalised, leaving the CRD IV rules subject to significant interpretation. Despite the uncertainty around a number of areas in the rules, our disclosures are based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text. Pending finalisation of CRD IV, we have not definitively upgraded the models and systems used to calculate capital numbers in a CRD IV environment which, as a consequence, are subject to change. Consequently, the final CRD IV impact on the Group’s CET1 and RWAs may be different from our current estimates. The detailed basis of preparation is described below for items that are different from our current treatment under Basel II. For individual immaterial holdings in banks, financial institutions and insurance that are, in aggregate, above 10% of the Group’s CET1 capital, we have included specific short term management actions that could be taken to negate the capital deduction. For other CRD IV proposals, additional management actions could also be taken dependent upon the finalised rules and timing of implementation but, as such, have not been included. Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component (exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock): the value of our holdings of own CET1 instruments, where it is not already deducted under IFRSs, is deducted from CET1. Under CRD IV, deduction comprises not only direct but also indirect, actual and contingent, banking and trading book gross long positions. Trading book positions are calculated net of short positions only where there is no counterparty credit risk on these short positions (this restriction does not apply to index positions). We have not recognised the benefit of non-index short positions, even where they are executed with central counterparties or are fully collateralised. Under current rules, there is no regulatory adjustment made on the amounts already deducted under IFRS rules. Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1: non-controlling interests arising from the issue of common shares by our banking subsidiaries receive limited recognition. The excess over a minimum of 7% of the CET1 of the relevant subsidiary is not allowable in the Group’s CET1 to the extent it is attributable to minority shareholders. Under current rules, there is no regulatory restriction applied to these items. Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: under CRD IV, there is no adjustment to remove from CET1 capital unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities. Under current FSA rules, these are removed from capital (net of tax). Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities and reserves arising from revaluation of property: there is no adjustment for unrealised gains and losses on reserves arising from the revaluation of property and on available-for-sale equities. Under current FSA rules, unrealised net gains on these items are included in tier 2 capital (net of deferred tax) and net losses are deducted from tier 1 capital. Defined benefit pension fund liabilities: the amount of retirement benefit liabilities as reported on the balance sheet is fully recognised in CET1 rather than being replaced by any committed funding plans as current FSA rules permit. Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1: the amount of excess expected loss over impairment allowance is deducted 100% from CET1. Under current FSA rules, this amount is deducted 50% from CT1 and 50% from total capital. 298 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses: the amount of expected losses in excess of impairment allowances that is deducted from CET1 capital is not reduced for any related tax effects. Under current FSA rules, any related tax credit offset is recognised 50% in CT1 and 50% in tier 1 capital. Securitisation positions risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions that were deducted from core tier 1 under current rules have been included in RWAs at 1,250%. Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles: the amount of intangible assets deducted from CET1 has been reduced by the related deferred tax liability. Under current rules, the goodwill and intangibles are deducted at their accounting value. Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences): the deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not arise from temporary differences are deducted 100% from CET1. The deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject to the separate threshold deduction approach detailed separately. Under current rules, these items receive a risk weighting of 100%. Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as prudent valuation adjustment or ‘PVA’): under current FSA rules, banks are required to comply with requirements for prudent and reliable valuation of any balance sheet position measured at market or fair value. Under CRD IV, all assets and derivatives measured at fair value are subject to specified standards for prudent valuation, covering uncertainty around the input factors into the fair value valuation models – namely, uncertainty around the mark to market of positions, model risk, valuation of less liquid positions and credit valuation adjustments (‘CVA’). Where the accounting fair value calculated under IFRS is higher than the valuation amount resulting from the application of the prudential adjustments, this would result in an additional valuation adjustment or PVA deduction from common equity tier 1 capital. Following FSA direction, we have included an estimate of the impact of PVA, although there is guidance outstanding following a recent consultation on a related EBA draft regulatory technical standard issued on 13 November 2012. Further clarity on the requirements following finalisation of the EBA process and discussions with our regulator could potentially change this figure. Debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’): the amount of gains and losses on OTC derivative liabilities that results from changes to our own credit spread are derecognised from CET1. Individually immaterial holdings in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance in aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1: under CRD IV, the investments in CET1 instruments of banks, financial institutions and insurance entities, where we have a holding of not more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by those entities, are deducted from CET1, to the extent the aggregate amount of such holdings exceeds 10% of our CET1 (calculated before any threshold deductions). The estimated deduction follows the draft July 2011 CRD IV rules and guidance provided by the FSA, which impose a restriction on the netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short positions has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year. While rules are in draft and this aspect is still being debated, we have disclosed the impact of the rules as written. However, a range of management actions from adjustment to the hedging strategy, curtailment or closure of the business could be applied to mitigate the capital deduction. Deductions under threshold approach: under CRD IV, where we have a holding of more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by banks, financial institutions and insurance entities which is not part of our regulatory consolidation, that holding is subject to a threshold deduction approach. Under current rules, these exposures are deducted 50% from tier 1 capital and 50% from total capital, except for certain insurance holdings that met the requirements under the transitional provision of the current rules and until 31 December 2012 were allowed to be deducted 100% from total capital. Deferred tax assets that rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised and which arise from temporary differences are also subject to this threshold deduction approach. Under current rules, these assets would be subject to 100% risk weighting. 299 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) Under CRD IV, the amount of such deferred tax assets and significant investments which individually and in aggregate exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of our CET1 are fully deducted from CET1 capital. Amounts falling below the 10% and 15% thresholds are risk weighted at 250%. Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Credit valuation adjustment: introduced as a new requirement under CRD IV rules, this is a capital charge to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk and referred to as a regulatory CVA risk capital charge. We have estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text, calculated on a full range of OTC derivative counterparties without exemptions that may be available under the final CRD IV text. Where we have both specific risk VAR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VAR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge. Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied. Counterparty credit risk (other than credit valuation adjustment): the additional requirements introduced by CRD IV and included in the CCR charge include: the increase in the asset value correlation multiplier for financial counterparties, additional requirements for collateralised counterparties, margin period of risk and new requirements for exposures to central clearing counterparties (‘CCPs’). In estimating the amount included for CCPs, we have assumed that all our CCPs are ‘qualifying’ under the requirements of CRD IV, although this will ultimately depend on confirmation from the competent regulatory authority of the CCP in question that the CCP complies with all the recommendations for CCPs published by the Committee on payment and settlement systems and by the technical committee of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions. Where we do not have full data disclosed for a given CCP, we have assumed full deduction of default fund exposures. Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight: as explained above, items that fall under the threshold approach treatment under CRD IV, and which are below the 10% and 15% thresholds, are risk-weighted at 250%. Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions which were deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital, and free deliveries that were deducted from total capital under current rules, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%. Investment in commercial entities now risk-weighted: under CRDIV investments in commercial entities that are not qualifying holdings are risk weighted. These were deducted under the current rules. Deferred tax assets moved to threshold approach or deduction under CRD IV: deferred tax assets, which were risk-weighted at 100% under the standardised approach under current rules, are treated as a capital deduction from CET1 to the extent they rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised. Those that do not rely on future profitability shall continue to be risk weighted. 300 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Page App1 Corporate Governance Report 301 Letter from the Group Chairman 301 Directors 302 Secretary 307 Adviser to the Board 307 Group Managing Directors 308 Board of Directors 309 Directors 309 Corporate governance codes 316 Board committees 318 Group Management Board 318 Group Audit Committee 319 Group Risk Committee 323 Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 328 Group Remuneration Committee 329 Nomination Committee 329 Corporate Sustainability Committee 330 Internal control 332 Going concern basis 334 Employees 335 Global People Survey 335 Reward 335 Employee relations 335 Diversity and inclusion 335 Staff development 335 Employment of disabled persons 336 Health and safety 336 Remuneration policy 336 Employee share plans 336 Other required disclosures 339 Share capital 340 Directors’ interests 343 Supplier payment policy 344 Dividends and shareholders 344 2013 Annual General Meeting 339 1 Appendix to Report of the Directors. Corporate Governance Report The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 301 to 370 and information incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate Governance Report of HSBC Holdings. The reports of Board Committees are contained within the Corporate Governance Report. Letter from the Group Chairman Dear Shareholder At HSBC, we are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. This is more important than ever in light of developments and changes in regulatory policy for financial services, society’s view of the role of banks and the need to maintain investor confidence. We believe that a strong and transparent corporate governance framework is directly linked to the long-term success of the Group. A values-led culture, high behavioural standards and robust procedures are fundamental to a strong corporate governance framework. As we reported to you last year, a renewed emphasis has been placed on values at HSBC, ensuring our employees are empowered to do the right thing and act with courageous integrity. The role played by HSBC Values in daily operating practice is fundamental to our culture and HSBC Values continue to be embedded in how we conduct our business. In my statement to shareholders on pages 4 to 7 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, I outline the significant challenges faced by the Group, both during the year and in the future, and the way we endeavour to address these challenges. We now have the structure to help us reduce complexity and to run the Group more effectively on a global basis. We are formulating and implementing global standards to ensure that our conduct matches our values. In this Corporate Governance Report, we outline the way in which the Group’s corporate governance framework operates, including the role and responsibilities of the Board and each of its Committees. We continue to review and develop this framework in light of changes in the Group’s businesses and the external environment, taking into account the views of external parties where appropriate. As in previous years, we have benefited from input from a third-party facilitator whose report was used by the Board in its annual review of its own effectiveness. Ensuring there is an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is an important aspect of corporate governance. The expertise and experience of our Board was augmented in 2012 with the appointments of Joachim Faber, former Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG, and John Lipsky, former First Deputy Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. It was augmented further in 2013 with the appointments of Renato Fassbind, former Chief Financial Officer of Credit 301 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Suisse Group SA, and Jim Comey, former United States Deputy Attorney General. We have also taken steps to strengthen non-executive oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferations financing. A new Board committee, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’), will provide governance, oversight and policy guidance over the framework of controls and procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC may become exposed, and through that exposure, expose the financial system more broadly to financial crime or system abuse. The FSVC will use the knowledge and experience of its members to place the Group in a position of leadership in this area and will provide the Board with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk. The executive committee structure has been enhanced during the year with the establishment of a regular separate meeting of the Group Management Board to focus on developing and implementing global standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered to consistently throughout the Group. During the year, the Board adopted a Board diversity policy, which is consistent with the Group’s strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity for the employee base. At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, I stated the Board’s intention to exceed the aspirational target set by Lord Davies in his report Women on Boards of 25% female representation on the boards of FTSE 100 companies by 2015. Our policy re-states this intention. We recognise that our strategy to be the world’s leading international bank relies on a foundation of good corporate governance and we endeavour to be at the forefront of this field in the coming years. D J Flint, Group Chairman 4 March 2013 Directors D J Flint, CBE, 57 Group Chairman Skills and experience: extensive governance experience gained through membership of the Boards of HSBC and BP p.l.c.; considerable knowledge of finance and risk management in banking, multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities trading operations; honoured with a CBE in recognition of his services to the finance industry; member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers. Fellow of The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. Joined HSBC in 1995. Appointed to the Board: 1995 Current appointments include: director of The Hong Kong Association; and Chairman of the Institute of International Finance since 6 June 2012. A member of the Mayor of Beijing’s International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council as well as the Mayor of Shanghai’s International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council; and a member of the International Advisory Board of the China Europe International Business School, Shanghai. Former appointments include: Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Officer; and Executive Director, Risk and Regulation. Co-Chairman of the Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III; Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council’s review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control; member of the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Board; served on the Large Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the Consultative Committee of the Large Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs; partner in KPMG; and non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of BP p.l.c. S T Gulliver, 53 Group Chief Executive Skills and experience: a career banker with over 30 years’ international experience with HSBC; has held a number of key roles in the Group’s operations worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates; played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking and Markets, the wholesale banking 302 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) division of the Group with operations in over 65 countries and territories. Joined HSBC in 1980. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited; and Chairman of the Group Management Board. A member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore International Advisory Panel since 1 June 2012 and a member of the International Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory Commission since 10 July 2012. Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses and Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA. Head of Global Banking and Markets; Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets; Head of Global Markets; Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific; Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and a member of its Supervisory Board. Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC France on 22 November 2012. S A Catz†, 51 Skills and experience: a background in international business leadership, having helped transform Oracle into the largest producer of business management software and the world’s leading supplier of software for information management. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: President and Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation. Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board of directors in 2001. Former appointments include: Managing Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. L M L Cha†, GBS, 63 Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee and, since 1 January 2013, Chairman. Skills and experience: extensive regulatory and policy making experience in the finance and securities sector in Hong Kong and mainland China; formerly Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, being the first person outside mainland China to join the Central Government of the People’s Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank; awarded Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Government for public service; formerly Deputy Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong; and has worked in the US and Asia. Appointed to the Board: 2011 Current appointments include: non-executive Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited; non-official member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR; a Hong Kong Deputy to the 12th National People’s Congress of China; non-executive director of China Telecom Corporation Limited; member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management; Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB; member of the State Bar of California; and Chairman of the Financial Services Development Council of Hong Kong SAR since 17 January 2013. Appointed a non-executive director of Unilever PLC with effect from 14 May 2013. Former appointments include: non-executive director of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited; Johnson Electric Holdings Limited; and Chairman of the University Grants Committee in Hong Kong. Ceased to be a director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited on 24 April 2012; Tata Consultancy Services Limited on 29 June 2012; Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on Corruption on 31 December 2012; and Chairman of the Task Force on the Financial Services Development Council of Hong Kong SAR on 17 January 2013. M K T Cheung†, GBS, OBE, 65 Member of the Group Audit Committee. Skills and experience: a background in international business and financial accounting, particularly in Greater China and the wider Asian economy; retired from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than 30 years; awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2009 Current appointments include: non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HKR International Limited; non-executive Chairman of the Airport Authority Hong Kong and the Council of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; director of The Association of Former Council Members of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and The Hong Kong International Film Festival Society Ltd; and a member of the Working Group on Transportation under the 303 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Economic Development Commission of the Hong Kong SAR Government since 17 January 2013. Former appointments include: non-executive director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Hong Kong; and council member of the Open University of Hong Kong. Ceased to be a non-official member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong SAR on 1 July 2012. J B Comey†, 52 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee on 4 March 2013. Skills and experience: extensive experience in both the public and private sectors in the US federal and state justice systems and as General Counsel to leading international businesses. Former US Deputy Attorney General responsible for supervising operations of the US Department of Justice. As US Attorney for the Southern District of New York, oversaw the prosecution of corporate executives on fraud and securities-related charges and international drug cartels. Appointed to the Board: 4 March 2013 Current appointments include: Columbia University Law School, Senior Research Scholar and Hertog Fellow on National Security Law. Former appointments include: General Counsel of Bridgewater Associates, LP; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Lockheed Martin Corporation; US Deputy Attorney General; US Attorney for the Southern District of New York; and Assistant US Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. J D Coombe†, 67 Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Group Risk Committee and Group Remuneration Committee. Skills and experience: a background in international business, financial accounting and the pharmaceutical industry. Formerly Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc with responsibility for the group’s financial operations globally. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2005 Current appointments include: non-executive Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc and non-executive Chairman of Home Retail Group plc since 4 July 2012. Former appointments include: executive director and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc; non-executive director of GUS plc; member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG; Chairman of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors; and member of the Accounting Standards Board. Ceased to be a council member of The Royal Academy of Arts on 18 September 2012. J Faber†, 62 Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March 2012. Skills and experience: a background in banking and asset management with significant international experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New York and London. Former Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of the management board of Allianz SE; 14 years’ experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North America and Japan. Has a doctorate from the University of Administrative Sciences in Speyer. Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012 Current appointments include: Chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Börse AG; Chairman of the Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser SARL from 1 January 2012; independent director of Coty Inc.; director of Allianz France S.A., Allianz Investment Management GmbH and Allianz Climate Solutions GmbH; and member of the advisory boards of the Siemens Group Pension Board, the European School for Management and Technology and the German Council for Sustainable Development. Former appointments include: Chairman of Allianz Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH; Chairman of the board of Allianz Global Investors SGR; and member of the board of Allianz SpA and of the supervisory board of Bayerische Boerse AG. 304 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) R A Fairhead†, CBE, 51 Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, and member of the Group Audit Committee and Nomination Committee. Skills and experience: a background in international industry, publishing, finance and general management. Formerly Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day running of the finance function and directly responsible for global financial reporting and control, tax and treasury. Has a Master’s in Business Administration from the Harvard Business School. Appointed to the Board: 2004 Current appointments include: Chairman and director of Financial Times Group Limited; director of Pearson plc and non-executive director of The Economist Newspaper Limited. Will retire from these appointments on 27 April 2013. Non-executive member of the board of the UK Government’s Cabinet Office. Former appointments include: Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Chemical Industries plc; Finance Director of Pearson plc; and Chairman and director of Interactive Data Corporation. R Fassbind†, 57 Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee since 1 March 2013. Skills and experience: a background in financial accounting and international business. Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group SA and ABB Group. Has a Master’s in Business Administration and a PhD in Economics from the University of Zurich. Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Current appointments include: Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and member of the audit and compensation committees of Swiss Reinsurance Company; member of the supervisory board and audit committee of Kühne + Nagel International AG; independent director of Oanda Corporation; and member of the supervisory board of the Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority. Former appointments include: Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG; Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive, Credit Suisse Group AG; Chief Executive Officer of Diethelm Keller Group; Chief Financial Officer of ABB Group; Chairman of ABB (Switzerland) AG and DKSH AG; and a member of the supervisory board of Winterthur Insurance Company. J W J Hughes-Hallett†, CMG , SBS, 63 Member of the Nomination Committee and until 31 July 2012, the Group Risk Committee. Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee since 1 January 2013. Skills and experience: a background in financial accounting and experience of management of a broad range of international businesses, including aviation, insurance, property, shipping, manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US and Australia. Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Appointed to the Board: 2005 Current appointments include: Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited; non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited; a trustee of the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation; member of The Hong Kong Association; and Chairman of the Governing Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art. Former appointments include: non-executive director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and a trustee of the Dulwich Picture Gallery until 31 December 2012. W S H Laidlaw†, 57 Member of the Group Remuneration Committee. Skills and experience: significant international experience, particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility for businesses in four continents. Qualified Solicitor and Master’s in Business Administration from INSEAD. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc; and Lead Non-executive Board Member of the UK Department for Transport. Former appointments include: Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation; non-executive director of Hanson PLC; Chief Executive Officer of Enterprise Oil plc; and President and Chief Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation. Ceased to be a member of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group on 31 December 2012. 305 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) J P Lipsky†, 66 Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March 2012 and Nomination Committee since 24 May 2012. Skills and experience: international experience having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and London and interacted with financial institutions, central banks and governments in many countries. Served at the International Monetary Fund as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Director and as Special Advisor. Has a PhD from Stanford University. Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012 Current appointments include: Distinguished Visiting Scholar, International Economics Program at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. Co-chairman of the Aspen Institute Program on the World Economy; director of the National Bureau of Economic Research; and member of the advisory board of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and the Council on Foreign Relations. A director of the Center for Global Development since 1 May 2012; and Global Policy Advisor for Anderson Global Macro, LLC since 4 February 2013. Former appointments include: Vice Chairman J P Morgan Investment Bank; director of the American Council on Germany and the Japan Society; and a trustee of the Economic Club of New York. J R Lomax†, 67 Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee. Skills and experience: experience in both the public and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the operation of the UK government and financial system. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: Chairman of the International Regulatory Strategy Group and a director of TheCityUK since 1 January 2013; non-executive director of The Scottish American Investment Company PLC, Reinsurance Group of America Inc., Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited (formerly BAA Limited); member of the Council of Imperial College, London; and President of the Institute of Fiscal Studies. Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and member of the Monetary Policy Committee; Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions and the Welsh Office; and Vice President and Chief of Staff to the President of the World Bank. I J Mackay, 51 Group Finance Director Skills and experience: extensive financial and international experience, having worked in London, Paris, US and Asia. Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Joined HSBC in 2007. Appointed to the Board: 2010 Current appointments include: member of the Group Management Board. Former appointments include: director of Hang Seng Bank Limited; Chief Financial Officer, Asia-Pacific; and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North America Holdings Inc; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare – Global Diagnostic Imaging. Sir Simon Robertson†, 72 Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee. Skills and experience: a background in international corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, investment banking and financial markets; honoured with a knighthood in recognition of his services to business; extensive international experience having worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US. Appointed to the Board: 2006 Current appointments include: non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc until 2 May 2013. The founding member of Robertson Robey Associates LLP, formerly Simon Robertson Associates LLP; non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, The Economist Newspaper Limited; and, since 8 May 2012, Troy Asset Management; partner of NewShore Partners LLP; and trustee of the Eden Project Trust and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund. 306 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Former appointments include: Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International and Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. Ceased to be a non-executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Limited on 31 July 2012. J L Thornton†, 59 Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee. Skills and experience: experience that bridges developed and developing economies and the public and private sectors. A deep knowledge of financial services and education systems, particularly in Asia. During his 23-year career with Goldman Sachs, he played a key role in the firm’s global development and was Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia. Appointed to the Board: 2008 Current appointments include: non-executive Chairman and director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc.; Director and Co-Chairman of Barrick Gold Corporation since 15 February 2012 and 5 June 2012 respectively; professor and director of the Global Leadership Program at the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management; Chairman of the Brookings Institution Board of Trustees; non-executive director of Ford Motor Company and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited; director of National Committee on United States-China Relations; trustee of China Institute and the China Foreign Affairs University; and member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the China Securities Regulatory Commission International Advisory Committee. Former appointments include: non-executive director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited and Intel Corporation, Inc.; trustee of Asia Society; and President of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Ceased to be a non-executive director of News Corporation, Inc. on 30 November 2012. † Independent non-executive Director. Secretary R G Barber, 62 Group Company Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Joined HSBC in 1980. Group Company Secretary since 1986 and Company Secretary of HSBC Holdings plc since 1990. Appointed a Group General Manager in 2006. Chairman of the Disclosure Committee. A member of the Listing Authority Advisory Committee of the Financial Services Authority and of the Primary Markets Group of the London Stock Exchange. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Former HSBC appointments include: Corporation Secretary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Company Secretary of HSBC Bank plc. Adviser to the Board D J Shaw, 66 Adviser to the Board since 1998. Director of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited. Ceased to be a director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA and HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA on 19 September 2012. An independent non-executive director of Kowloon Development Company Limited and Shui On Land Limited. A solicitor and formerly a partner in Norton Rose. 307 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Group Managing Directors A Almeida, 56 Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability Joined HSBC in 1992. A Group Managing Director since 2008. Former HSBC appointments include: Global Head of Human Resources for Global Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah. S Assaf, 52 Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Joined HSBC in 1994. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Chairman of HSBC France since 22 November 2012. A director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Former HSBC appointments include: director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited; Head of Global Markets; and Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa. Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. on 7 November 2012. I M Dorner, 58 President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA Joined HSBC in 1986. A Group Managing Director since 1 February 2013. Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, National Association and HSBC USA Inc.; President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC North America Inc. Former HSBC appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad and HSBC Amanah Takaful (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad; Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad; Chief Operating Officer, Treasury and Capital Markets; General Manager of Marketing, General Manager of Human Resources; and General Manager of Premier and Wealth Management, HSBC Bank plc. J M Flint, 44 Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director since 1 January 2013. A director of HSBC Bank Canada since 15 February 2012. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy and Planning; Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global Asset Management; Group Treasurer; and Deputy Head of Global Markets. M P Kaur, 49 Group Head of Internal Audit Will join HSBC and become a Group Managing Director on 1 April 2013. Former appointments include: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche Bank AG; Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer, Restructuring & Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc; Group Head of Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds TSB; and Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, Citigroup. A M Keir, 54 Global Head of Commercial Banking Joined HSBC in 1981. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Former HSBC appointments include: Group General Manager, Commercial Banking, Europe and Global Co-Head, Global Commercial Banking. S A Levey, 49 Chief Legal Officer Joined HSBC on 13 January 2012. A Group Managing Director since 18 January 2012. Former appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of Treasury; Senior Fellow for National Security and Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign Relations; Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General at the US Department of Justice; and Partner at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Botts LLP. A M Losada, 58 Chief Executive, Latin America and the Caribbean Joined HSBC in 1973. A Group Managing Director since 1 December 2012. Chairman of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. since 6 February 2012. A director of HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. since 2 May 2012 and a director of HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC and Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. since 20 February 2012. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina; and Deputy Head, Personal Financial Services, Brazil. 308 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) M M Moses, 55 Group Chief Risk Officer Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director since 2010. Director of HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited. A director of HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA and HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA since 19 September 2012. Former HSBC appointments include Chief Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets. S P O’Sullivan, 57 Group Chief Operating Officer Joined HSBC in 1980. A Group Managing Director since 2011. Former HSBC appointments include: Group Chief Technology and Services Officer; director and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank plc; and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank Canada. B Robertson, 58 Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc Joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director since 2008. Chairman of HSBC Life (UK) Limited. Director of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited since 1 January 2012. Former HSBC appointments include: Group Chief Risk Officer; Group General Manager, Group Credit and Risk; and Head of Global Banking and Markets for North America. P T S Wong, 61 Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director since 2010. Chairman of HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad. Non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. Independent non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited. Former HSBC appointments include: director of HSBC Bank Australia Limited. Ceased to be Vice Chairman of HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd on 16 January 2012 and a director of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd on 7 December 2012. Board of Directors The purpose of HSBC’s management structure, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings (the ‘Board’) and led by the Group Chairman, is to promote the long-term success of the Company and deliver sustainable value to our shareholders. The Board sets the strategy and risk appetite for the Group and approves capital and operating plans presented by management for the achievement of the strategic objectives it has set. Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which is led by the Group Chief Executive. Directors HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board. The authority of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings where the Board acts collectively. At the time of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 on 4 March 2013, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and 13 non-executive Directors whose names and brief biographical particulars are included on pages 302 to 307. The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are HSBC employees. Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily business management of HSBC; they bring an external perspective, constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the risk profile and the reporting of performance. The non-executive Directors bring experience from a number of industries and business sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises. Terms of appointment The Board has determined the time commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 days per annum. Time devoted to the Company could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees. Letters setting out the terms and conditions of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, including the time commitment expected of each of them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Meeting itself. 309 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Powers of the Board The Board is responsible for managing the business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise its powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to the Articles of Association. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or assets (present or future) of HSBC Holdings and may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the Companies Act 2006 and/or by shareholders. The Board is able to delegate and confer on any Director holding executive office any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fits. In addition, the Board may establish any local or divisional boards or agencies for managing the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on any local or divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. The Board may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may delegate to any such person or persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. The Board delegates the management and day-to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to itself approval of certain matters including operating plans, risk appetite and performance targets, procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, the authority or the delegation of authority to approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital expenditure or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified senior appointments and any substantial change in balance sheet management policy. During 2012 the Board adopted terms of reference which are available at www.hsbc.com/1/2/ about/board-of-directors. The Board will review its terms of reference annually. The Directors who served during the year were S A Catz, L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, J Faber (appointed 1 March 2012), R A Fairhead, D J Flint, A A Flockhart (retired 31 July 2012), S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky (appointed 1 March 2012), J R Lomax, I J Mackay, G Morgan (retired 25 May 2012), N R N Murthy (retired 31 December 2012), Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson (retired 25 May 2012). HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong under part XI of the Companies Ordinance on 17 January 1991. Board meetings Eight Board meetings and a one-day strategy meeting were held in 2012. At least one Board meeting each year is held in a key strategic location outside the UK. During 2012, Board meetings were held in Hong Kong and Washington D.C. The table below shows each Director’s attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or she was a Director during 2012. One meeting of the Board was held at short notice in 2012. Twelve meetings of committees of the Board appointed to discharge specific business were held during 2012. These meetings are not shown in the table below. During 2012, the non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman met twice without the other executive Directors. The non-executive Directors also met twice without the Group Chairman, including to appraise the Group Chairman’s performance. Attendance record Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend as a Director S A Catz 8 8 L M L Cha 8 8 M K T Cheung 8 8 J D Coombe 8 8 J Faber1,2 6 6 R A Fairhead3 6 8 D J Flint 8 8 A A Flockhart4 4 5 S T Gulliver 8 8 J W J Hughes-Hallett 7 8 W S H Laidlaw 8 8 J P Lipsky1 6 6 J R Lomax 8 8 I J Mackay 8 8 G Morgan5 4 4 N R N Murthy6 7 8 Sir Simon Robertson 8 8 J L Thornton 8 8 Sir Brian Williamson5 4 4 Meetings held in 2012 8 1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2012. 2 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a Director. 3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 4 Retired as a Director on 31 July 2012. 5 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. 6 Retired as a Director on 31 December 2012. 310 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and held by experienced full-time Directors. There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for running HSBC’s business. The key responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are set out below. Key responsibilities Group Chairman – D J Flint1 • Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness. • Develops relationships with governments, regulators and investors. • Leads the Group’s interactions on matters of public policy and regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial services industry. • Maintains corporate reputation and character. • Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief Executive. 1 Appointed Group Chairman in December 2010. Group Chief Executive – S T Gulliver1 • Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans. • Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group Chairman, for recommendation to the Board. • As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 1 Appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2011. The Group Chief Executive has an office in London and in Hong Kong. Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director The key responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director are set out below. Key responsibilities Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director – Sir Simon Robertson1 • Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or shareholders. • Supports the Group Chairman in his role. • Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors when necessary. • Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman. • Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. • Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. 1 Appointed senior independent non-executive Director in 2007 and Deputy Chairman in December 2010. Board balance and independence of Directors The Board includes a strong presence of both executive and non-executive Directors and no individual or small group can dominate its decision making. The size of the Board is appropriate given the complexity and geographical spread of our business and the significant time demands placed on the non-executive Directors, particularly those who serve as members of Board committees. The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board (including the skills, knowledge and experience required of Directors) necessary to address and challenge adequately key risks and issues that confront, or may confront, the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. During 2012, the Board adopted a Board diversity policy. Further information on this policy can be found on page 329. The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement. The Board has determined S A Catz, L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J B Comey, J D Coombe, J Faber, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind, J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, Sir Simon Robertson and J L Thornton to be independent. When determining independence the Board considers that calculation of the length of service of a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or her first election by shareholders as a Director of HSBC Holdings. Given the complexity and geographical spread of our business, the experience of previous service on a HSBC subsidiary company board can be a considerable benefit and does not detract from a Director’s independence. In reaching its determination of each non-executive Director’s independence, the Board has concluded that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect a Director’s judgement and any relationships or circumstances which could appear to do so were considered not to be material. From the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2013, R A Fairhead will have served on the Board for more than nine years and, in that respect only, will not meet the usual criteria for independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director 311 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) determined by the Board to be independent has provided an annual confirmation of his or her independence to HSBC Holdings. Information and support The Board regularly reviews reports on progress against financial objectives, business developments and investor and external relations. The chairmen of Board committees and the Group Chief Executive report to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the committees since the previous Board meeting. The Board receives regular reports and presentations on strategy and developments in the global businesses and principal geographical areas. Regular reports are also provided to the Board and Board committees on the Group’s risk appetite profile, top and emerging risks, risk management, credit exposures and the Group’s loan portfolio, asset and liability management, liquidity, litigation, compliance and reputational issues. The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in advance of all Board and Board committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings. All Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Company’s expense. The Directors have free and open contact with management at all levels. When attending Board offsites and when travelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors are encouraged to take opportunities to see business operations at first hand and to meet management. Non-executive Directors have an open invitation to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance their understanding and awareness of our businesses and the senior leadership team. Induction Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, with particular emphasis on risk management and internal controls systems, are arranged for newly appointed Directors. The programmes consist of a series of meetings with other Directors and senior executives to enable new Directors to familiarise themselves with our strategy, risk appetite and risk management, operations and internal controls. Directors also receive comprehensive guidance on directors’ duties and liabilities. As part of the induction process the Group Company Secretary will coordinate a development programme based on an individual Director’s needs. Induction programmes are also arranged for newly appointed members of committees. Training and Development Focused in-house training sessions are arranged in conjunction with scheduled Board meetings. Unless otherwise indicated, all Directors1 attended Board Meetings in 2012 at which briefings on the following topics were given: • Capital market perspectives on HSBC2,3 • CMB strategy2 and business update • GB&M strategy2 and business update • RBWM strategy2 and business update • GPB strategy2 and business update3 • Macroeconomic outlook2 • Europe strategy2 • US strategy2 • China strategy2 • Outlook for Greater China2 • Marks and Spencer Bank • Latin America • Global geopolitics • IT infrastructure Except: 1 R Fassbind and J B Comey who were not Directors at the time of the briefings. 2 J Faber and J P Lipsky who were not Directors at the time of the briefing. 3 R A Fairhead who was unable to attend the briefing. Executive Directors In the performance of their roles as Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, respectively, D J Flint, S T Gulliver and I J Mackay develop and refresh their skills and knowledge of the Group’s businesses and operations through day-to-day interactions and briefings with senior management of the Group’s businesses and functions; and presenting on the Group’s businesses to investors and analysts. They remain abreast of developments affecting the financial services sector, and banking in particular, by representing HSBC’s interests at conferences, advisory groups and other events and meetings with regulators and other authorities. During 2012, this included the activities set out below: D J Flint Chairman of the International Institute of Finance, including leading member’s meetings and giving keynote speeches. Participated in panel discussions and gave key note speeches on economic growth and financial regulation at a number of leading events including the International Monetary Conference, the Hong Kong Trade Development Council’s Think Asia Event, City Week 2012, a Chatham House conference, St. Gallen Symposium and The Salzburg Global Seminar. Gave the Aileen Beattie Memorial 312 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Lecture at the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland on the opportunities to improve the financial services sector following the crisis. Presented to the Cambridge Executive Leadership Programme on leadership. Attended and participated in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Attended prudential regulation meetings with the FSA. S T Gulliver Gave keynote speeches at the Fung Global Institute annual forum and a Conservative Parliamentary China Group meeting on UK trade links with China. Gave presentations at several Asian-focussed events including the China Development Forum in Beijing, the China Investment Corporation global investment forum, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Finance Minsters Investors Summit in Hong Kong and the International Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. Attended the World Economic Forum in Davos. Attended prudential regulation meetings with the FSA. Chaired the Group’s strategy day for investors in London. Gave the keynote speech at an HSBC-led international corporate and structured banking event for UK exporters. I J Mackay Participated in meetings of the European Chief Financial Officers Network, the FSA Chief Financial Officers Group and the Bank for International Settlements. Attended conferences focused on Asian investment and European finance. Attended prudential regulation meetings with the FSA and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Presented at the Group’s strategy day for investors in London and hosted regular meetings with investors in the UK, US and Hong Kong. Non-executive Directors A personalised approach to training and development of non-executive Directors is applied. Non-executive Directors are given opportunities to update and develop their skills and knowledge through briefings by senior executives and externally run seminars. Non-executive Directors have access to internal training and development resources. Development plans and records of training and development activities are maintained by the Group Company Secretary to facilitate the Group Chairman’s annual review of each non-executive Director. In addition to the briefings given at Board Meetings of HSBC Holdings, the following non- executive Directors undertook bespoke training sessions and other activities, including attending Board committee meetings at which briefings were given during 2012 to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills as set out below: S A Catz Attended bespoke briefings on managing operational and reputational risk and recovery and resolution planning. L M L Cha Gave keynote speeches at the Institute of Directors in Hong Kong on the need for a financial services development council and at the Hong Kong Economic Summit. Participated in the Global Agenda Council on Global Financial system at the World Economic Forum. Attended bespoke briefings from HSBC Holdings on: senior management succession planning and diversity; extraterritorial application of laws and their impact on HSBC’s global businesses; HSBC brand management and sponsorship portfolio; the Group’s compliance assurance model; regulation and its impact on risk; and the FSA’s ‘Three lines of defence’ operational risk model. As a director and Vice Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation attended bespoke briefings or board meetings at which briefings were given on: the Group’s business in Asia-Pacific; international operations; information technology; CMB; financial regulation; GB&M; the Hong Kong SAR’s relationships with India and China; and RBWM in India. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. M K T Cheung Attended events for independent non-executive directors organised by KPMG and Deloitte and a seminar on international financial reporting standards organised by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Attended meetings of the Group Audit Committee at which briefings were given on developments in regulatory and accounting requirements and the regulatory environment. As a director of Hang Seng Bank attended bespoke briefings or board meetings at which briefings were given on: Basel III requirements; RBWM strategy; the Hong Kong Competition Ordinance; supervisory requirements of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority; changes to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing 313 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Rules; obligations under the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Ordinance; and mechanisms for core risk appetite measures. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. J D Coombe Attended events for non-executive directors run by Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank governance and by PricewaterhouseCoopers on updates in financial accounting. Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation, reform of the UK financial services industry regulatory authorities and managing operational risk in the Finance global function. Attended meetings of Board committees at which briefings were given on the regulatory environment and developments in accounting requirements, risk and executive remuneration, the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal reform. Chaired the annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. J Faber Undertook a personal induction programme comprising bespoke briefings on: CMB and GB&M, with particular focus on operations in the UK and Europe; the structure and responsibilities of a number of the Group’s global functions, including: Strategy and Planning; Corporate Sustainability; Risk (including Compliance); Finance; and Legal; and corporate governance (including Directors’ duties and obligations, HSBC’s governance structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, international corporate governance codes and listing obligations). Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation and HSBC’s business in Germany. Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were given on the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. R A Fairhead Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation. Attended meetings of committees of the Board at which briefings were given on the regulatory environment and developments in accounting requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies. R Fassbind1 Undertook a personal induction programme comprising bespoke briefings on: each of the Group’s global businesses; the structure and responsibilities of a number of the Group’s global functions, including: Strategy and Planning; Corporate Sustainability; Risk; Finance; Human Resources; and Internal Audit; corporate governance (including Directors’ duties and obligations, HSBC’s governance structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, international corporate governance codes and listing obligations); IT and Operations; and the Group’s Insurance business. J W J Hughes-Hallet Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which bespoke briefings were given on the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. W S H Laidlaw Attended bespoke briefings on individual liquidity adequacy assessment in the UK. Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration Committee at which briefings were given on regulatory developments in executive remuneration. J P Lipsky Undertook a personal induction programme comprising bespoke briefings on: GB&M; the structure and responsibilities of a number of the Group’s global functions, including: Strategy and Planning; Risk (including compliance); Finance ; Legal ; and governance (including Directors’ duties and obligations, HSBC’s governance structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, international corporate governance codes and listing obligations). Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation. Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were given on the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. J R Lomax Attended an event for non-executive directors run by Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank governance and the Trilateral Commission’s Europe conference in Helsinki. Attended meetings of 314 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) committees of the Board at which briefings were given on the regulatory environment and developments in regulatory and accounting requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks for the global businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies and in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. Sir Simon Robertson Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation, GPB, GB&M, Legal (including US regulatory matters), and Strategy and Planning. Attended a briefing from the external auditor on its role in the Group’s financial reporting. Develops and refreshes knowledge of the Group’s businesses and operations through regular interactions with, and receipt of briefings from, the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. J L Thornton Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation and anti-money laundering and compliance. Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration Committee at which briefings were given on regulatory developments in executive remuneration. As chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. attended board meetings at which briefings were given on: the Dodd-Frank Act; key US strategic considerations comprising the transformation of the US business (including regulatory and remediation planning, business disposals and demise, core business re-engineering and changing the culture); and the Group’s global businesses in the US including, in particular, the US consumer and mortgage lending business. Performance evaluation In September 2012, Bvalco Ltd was commissioned to facilitate and report on the review of effectiveness of the Board, with particular focus on the effectiveness of committees and their interaction with the Board, the relationship and information flows between the subsidiaries and the Board, the balance of skills on the Board and the level of time commitment required from Directors. A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the Company to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does not have any other connection with the Company. Bvalco’s report was prepared following interviews with Directors and senior members of management and a review of relevant documents. Factors assessed during Bvalco’s review included the Group’s culture, handling of reputational issues, composition of the Board, effectiveness of the Group Chairman, interaction between Board members and management, and Board Committee structure. Bvalco’s evaluation of the Board considered the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness. The Bvalco report concluded that the Board operates effectively with a number of important strengths. The report is used by the Board in its annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and by the Group Chairman in his review of the individual performance of Directors. The Board will monitor implementation of actions arising from its 2012 performance evaluation. All actions arising from the Board’s 2011 performance evaluation have been implemented. It is the intention of the Board to continue to undertake an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual Directors annually, with external input to the process at least every third year. Formal evaluation of the individual performance of each Director is undertaken annually by the Group Chairman using the findings of the performance evaluation process undertaken by the Board and, as appropriate, the records of training and development activities undertaken by Directors. During this evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the contribution of the Director and the time spent by them in performing their responsibilities. The Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the non-executive Directors continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the Group Chairman. Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors The Board may at any time appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five. Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire at the Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but would not be taken into account in determining the 315 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association. The Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment or executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment. Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a person a Director or remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office. On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in compliance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that all of the Directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders. Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election. Each of the executive Directors is employed, on a rolling contract which requires 12 months’ notice to be given by either party. None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with HSBC. Relations with shareholders All Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders. Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst presentations and other meetings with institutional investors and their representative bodies. Directors also meet representatives of institutional shareholders annually to discuss corporate governance matters. All executive Directors and certain other senior executives hold regular meetings with institutional investors. The Board receives a regular investor relations activity report which provides feedback from meetings with institutional shareholders and brokers, analysts’ forecasts, information from research reports and share price performance data. Twice each year the Board also receives a report from one of our corporate brokers on market views and investor relations. On several occasions during 2012, non-executive Directors, including the senior independent non-executive Director, met or corresponded with institutional investors and their representatives to discuss governance and remuneration. As senior independent non-executive Director, Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or other executives cannot resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate. He may be contacted through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. During 2012, the Board established a shareholder communication policy which is available on www.hsbc.com. Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors, relevant audit information and contracts of significance The Board has authority to approve Directors’ conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and has adopted a policy and procedures for the determination of terms of authorisation for such situations. The Board’s powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the procedures are being followed. A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised from time to time and the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by the Board annually. Our Articles of Association provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities. Such indemnity provisions have been in place during the financial year but have not been utilised by the Directors. Each person who is a Director at the time of approval of this report confirms that so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to the provisions thereof. None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company. Corporate governance codes HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate governance. HSBC has complied during 2012 with the applicable code provisions of: (i) The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council; (ii) the Code on Corporate Governance Practices set out in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from 1 January 2012 until its amendment and replacement 316 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) by the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code on 1 April 2012; and (iii) the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code from 1 April 2012 to 31 December 2012, save that the Group Risk Committee (all the members of which are independent non-executive Directors), which was established in accordance with the recommendations of the Report on Governance in UK banks and other financial industry entities, is responsible for the oversight of internal control (other than internal control over financial reporting) and risk management systems (Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code provision C.3.3 paragraphs (f), (g) and (h)). If there were no Group Risk Committee, these matters would be the responsibility of the Group Audit Committee. At its meeting on 24 May 2012, the Board adopted Terms of Reference and approved a shareholder communication policy as required under the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.frc.org.uk and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code is available at www.hkex.com.hk. The Board has adopted a code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors. The code of conduct complies with The Model Code in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (‘Hong Kong Model Code’) set out in the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model Code. The waivers granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited primarily take into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. Following specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed that he or she has complied with the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities throughout the year, save that, on 15 June 2012, an independent non-executive Director acquired an interest as beneficial owner in 3,950 retail bonds and as non-beneficial owner in 1,170 retail bonds of RMB10,000 each issued by HSBC Bank plc before giving notification and receiving written clearance to deal. On 10 January 2013, an independent non-executive Director disposed of an interest as beneficial owner in 500 units of euro-denominated preferred securities of EUR1,000 each issued by HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. before giving notification. All Directors have since been reminded of their obligations under the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Securities. 317 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Board committees The Board has established a number of committees consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors and, in the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and Corporate Sustainability Committee, co-opted non-director members. The key roles of the principal committees are described above. The Chairman of each non-executive Board committee reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the committee since the previous Board meeting. The terms of reference of the non-executive Board committees are available at www.hsbc.com/boardcommittees. Each non-executive Board committee reviews its terms of reference annually. Appointments of Directors to each non-executive Board committee are made for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year periods. Group Management Board Members1,2 S T Gulliver (Chairman) and I J Mackay, who are executive Directors, and A Almeida, S Assaf, I M Dorner, J M Flint, A M Keir, S A Levey, A M Losada, M M Moses, S P O’Sullivan, B Robertson and P T S Wong, all of whom are Group Managing Directors. 1 As at 4 March 2013. 2 M P Kaur has been appointed a member with effect from 1 April 2013. The head of each global business and global function and the chief executive of each region attend GMB meetings, either as members or by invitation. The GMB meets frequently and exercises the powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so far as they concern the management and day-to-day running of HSBC Holdings. Matters reserved for approval by the Board are described on page 310. 318 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) The GMB is a key element of our management reporting and control structure such that all of our line operations are accountable either to a member of the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, who in turn reports to the Group Chairman. The Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB. These align senior executives’ objectives and measures with the strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC. The Group Chief Executive (who is Chairman of the GMB) reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities of the GMB. Regular Risk Management Meetings of GMB, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held to establish, maintain and periodically review the policy and guidelines for the management of risk within the Group. Regular Global Standards Steering Meetings of the GMB, co-chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer and Group Chief Legal Officer, are held to develop and implement global standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered to consistently throughout the Group. Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) has non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice to, the Board on matters relating to financial reporting and for non-executive oversight of internal controls over financial reporting. Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 J D Coombe (Chairman) 5 5 M K T Cheung 5 5 R A Fairhead 5 5 J R Lomax 5 5 Meetings held in 2012 5 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. R Fassbind was appointed a member of the GAC on 1 March 2013. The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind and J R Lomax are independent according to SEC criteria and may be regarded as audit committee financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting is set out below. Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of matters relating to financial reporting. Governance Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors • Financial reporting • Appoints senior financial officers • Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters GAC Independent non-executive Directors • Monitors the integrity of financial statements • Oversees the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their effectiveness • Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function • Reviews the Company’s financial and accounting policies and practices • Advises the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Disclosure Committee Representatives from global businesses, functions and certain Group companies • Reviews the Group’s material communications with investors • Assists the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 • Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis • Reports findings and makes recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Subsidiary board committees responsible for oversight of financial reporting and global business audit committees Independent non-executive directors and/or independent members, as appropriate • Provide certification to the GAC or intermediate audit committee on financial statements and internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate 319 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Committee activities The GAC undertook the following activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Financial reporting. The Committee advised the Board on meeting its external financial reporting obligations through its reviews of financial statements, interim reports and interim management statements prior to approval by the Board. The Committee also undertook the following: — endorsed the going concern statement and the statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code (formerly the Code on Corporate Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited) for inclusion in the financial statements; — advised the Board that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable; — received reports on proposed changes to the Group’s disclosures in the financial statements and the adequacy of procedures to identify transactions and matters requiring disclosure under certain accounting standards; — reviewed accounting policies and practices, including approval of the critical accounting policies; — considered provisioning for, and disclosure of, certain litigation and regulatory matters with external legal counsel providing a status update on these matters; — received a presentation from the Global Head of Tax on current tax issues; — received a report on the European Banking Authority Capital Exercise 2012 to monitor adherence to recommended core tier 1 ratios; and — reviewed the procedures for the submission by employees of concerns regarding accounting and/or auditing matters. During 2012, the GAC considered the significant accounting issues described below. In addressing these issues the Committee considered the appropriateness of management’s judgements and estimates and, where appropriate, discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor. The Committee considered: — the circumstances leading to the recognition of a provision at 30 June 2012 relating to US regulatory and law enforcement investigations into inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, US Bank Secrecy and sanctions laws. The Committee noted that management had considered the available information, recent developments, the opinions of external legal counsel and the outcome of past cases on similar matters. The Committee discussed the judgements exercised by management in forming a best estimate of the amount that might have been required to settle the matter, and agreed that a provision of US$700m should be made, while noting that this estimate was highly uncertain, and that the amount, when determined, could be higher, possibly significantly so. In the third quarter, the Committee considered the latest developments in this matter and discussed the possibility of a criminal prosecution being brought against one or more Group companies and the possible implications. The Committee agreed with management’s judgement that the provision should be increased to US$1.5bn, while continuing to note that the final amount could be significantly higher. Subsequently, the Committee noted the payments made in December 2012 under the agreements to achieve resolution with US and UK government agencies, and the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement; — the developments in the industry investigations and reviews into the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates by various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world. The Committee discussed the high degree of uncertainty as to the resolution of these regulatory investigations and reviews, including the timing and potential impact; — HSBC’s exposure to the payment of redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance policies in the UK and the related provisions. The Committee considered the key assumptions which determine the provisions and the factors driving the increase during the year. Management’s assessment was that the amount of provision at 31 December 2012 320 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) of US$1.3bn is based on appropriate assumptions about future expected redress payments, while noting the sensitivity of the provision to different outcomes from those assumed; — HSBC’s involvement in the sale of interest rate swaps to small and medium sized businesses in the UK and the potential costs of remediation. The Committee noted that the provision of US$598m at 31 December 2012 reflected the outcome of the FSA’s findings from the pilot reviews completed by banks on the selling of these products to customers; — the level of loan impairment allowances and charges throughout the year, discussing with management the reasons for significant increases, notably in Brazil as a result of economic conditions and strong growth in lending in recent periods. The Committee considered the judgements and estimates involved in applying roll rate methodologies and noted the recognition of an additional impairment allowance of US$225m in respect of the US mortgage lending portfolios to reflect a longer estimated average period of time from current status to write-off. In response to an industry letter from the FSA concerning the application of loan impairment methodologies to loan portfolios vulnerable to credit stresses, the Committee considered reports on the application of HSBC’s accounting policies and loan impairment methodologies. The Committee also considered a report on credit exposures and the extent of refinancing risk in HSBC’s UK corporate real estate lending portfolio, and how this is reflected in loan impairment allowances; — the recoverability of major deferred tax assets balances recognised, including the deferred tax asset balances recognised in the US, Mexico and Brazil; — management’s judgements involved in the change in estimation methodology for credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation adjustments on derivative financial instruments as at 31 December 2012 as a result of changing market practices; — the impairment test performed on HSBC’s investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited as at 31 December 2012. During the year, the market value of the investment was below the carrying amount for a period of approximately ten months, which gave rise to an indicator of impairment. The impairment test identified that, based on an assessment of the value in use of the investment, the investment is not impaired; and — management’s conclusion that goodwill relating to GB&M Europe is not impaired following reduced profitability in the second half of 2012 which triggered the re-testing of the related goodwill as at 31 December 2012. The Committee noted that disclosure has been made with regards to the extent to which a change in key assumptions would result in the recoverable amount to be equal to its carrying amount (see note 23 on the financial statements). • Internal controls over financial reporting. The Committee undertook an annual review of HSBC’s systems of internal controls over financial reporting. During 2012, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of such internal controls and reported regularly to the Board as described on page 334. The Committee received regular reports from the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head of Internal Audit. Minutes of the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) and executive committee meetings including the GMB and Risk Management Meetings were provided to the Committee members. The Committee also reviewed the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff in the Finance function. Reports were submitted to the Committee on internal control matters in relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company Secretary, external auditor and other senior executives attended Committee meetings. The Committee had regular discussions with the external auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for discussions to take place without management present. • Effectiveness of the internal audit function. The Committee satisfied itself that the internal audit function was effective and adequately resourced through regular meetings held with, and reports provided by, the Group Head of Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including the effectiveness and adequacy of resources. KPMG undertook a quality assurance review of 321 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) the internal audit function and concluded that overall, the internal audit function generally conformed to the Institute of Internal Auditors’ International Standards and Code of Ethics for the Professional Practice on Internal Auditing. The Committee received reports over the course of 2012 on the activities of the internal audit function and reviewed its planned activities for the following year. • Legal and regulatory environment. The Committee received regular reports on litigation and on the application of changes in law, regulation, accounting policies and practices and regulatory developments, including reports on developments in the programme to change International Financial Reporting Standards, Basel III, the recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking, Dodd-Frank Act and changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees. • External auditor. The Committee provided oversight of the external auditor through regular meetings with the external auditor, including meetings without management present, and receiving reports on the external auditor’s strategy in relation to the audit of financial statements and the progress of the audit. The Committee monitored the effectiveness of the audit process through a review of the public report published by the Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Inspection Unit on the inspection of the external auditor, an assessment against a best practice checklist for evaluating external auditors, an external audit assessment questionnaire completed by the chief financial officers of the Group’s major geographical regions, a review of the relationship between the Group and the external auditor at a senior level and considered the results of feedback provided to the external auditor by members of the finance function throughout the Group. The Committee approved the remuneration and terms of engagement and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor. • Terms of reference and effectiveness of the Committee. The Committee undertook an annual review of its terms of reference and of its own effectiveness. Changes were made to the Committee’s terms of reference to reflect changes to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, other senior executives and the external auditor. Terms of reference and subsidiary company audit oversight The GAC is responsible for non-executive oversight of internal controls over financial reporting. To ensure consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary company audit committees, the GAC has established core terms of reference to guide subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their audit committees. The Committee’s endorsement is required for any proposed material changes to subsidiary audit committee terms of reference and for appointments to such committees. A forum for the chairmen of our principal subsidiary company committees with responsibility for non-executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to share understanding and to facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which these subsidiary company committees operate. The next forum will be held in June 2013. Arrangements relating to the external auditor The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. KPMG has been the Group’s auditor since 1991, when HSBC Holdings became the ultimate holding company of the Group, without a tender process for the external audit contract having taken place. It is our intention that a tender process for the external audit contract will be undertaken, with the successful audit firm being appointed by 2015. The Board has approved, on the recommendation of the Committee, a policy for the employment by HSBC of former employees of KPMG. The Committee receives an annual report on such former employees who are employed and the number in senior positions. This report enables the Committee to consider whether there has been any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the external auditor’s judgement, objectivity or independence in respect of the audit. The external 322 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) auditor provided written confirmation of its independence under industry standards. The policies for the pre-approval of specific services that may be provided by the principal auditor are kept under review by the Committee and amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and experience of our auditor, while also ensuring that our external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity. These pre-approval policies apply to all services where any HSBC company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the service, and has selected or influenced the choice of KPMG. All services provided by KPMG during 2012 were pre-approved by the Committee or were entered into under pre-approval policies established by the Committee. The pre-approved services relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types of attestation reports, the provision of advice and other non-audit services allowed under SEC independence rules. The services fall into the categories of audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services. An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG for each of the past three years is disclosed in Note 8 on the Financial Statements. Group Risk Committee The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on high-level risk-related matters and risk governance and for non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls (other than over financial reporting). Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 R A Fairhead2 (Chairman) 6 7 J D Coombe 7 7 J Faber3 5 5 J W J Hughes-Hallett4 4 5 J P Lipsky3 5 5 J R Lomax 7 7 Meetings held in 2012 7 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2012. 4 Retired as a member of the Committee on 31 July 2012. John Trueman, a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk and audit committees has continued to attend meetings of the GRC by invitation during 2012. Robert Herdman, a non-executive director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, has been invited by the GRC to attend its meetings from the beginning of 2013. Their experience of risk-related matters in the financial services industry is valued by the Committee. Governance All of HSBC’s activities involve, to varying degrees, the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or combinations of risks. The Board, advised by the Committee, requires and encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Group’s attitude to risk. The Board and the Committee oversee the maintenance and development of a strong risk management framework by continually monitoring the risk environment, top and emerging risks facing the Group and mitigating actions planned and taken. The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal controls systems other than over financial reporting, which are monitored by the GAC. The governance structure for the management of risk is set out in the following table. Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters and an executive committee with responsibility for risk-related matters. 323 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors • Approves risk appetite, strategy and performance targets for the Group • Approves appointment of senior risk officers • Delegates authority for risk management • Encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Group’s attitude to risk GRC Independent non-executive Directors • Advises the Board on: – risk appetite and alignment with strategy – alignment of remuneration with risk appetite (through advice to the Group Remuneration Committee) – risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals • Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk management and internal controls (other than over financial reporting) • Oversees the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Executive Directors and co-opted non-director members • Oversees controls and procedures designed to identify areas of exposure to financial crime or system abuse • Oversees matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing • Reviews policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met Risk Management Meeting of the GMB Global Standards Steering Meeting of the GMB Group Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Legal Officer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director All other Group Managing Directors Group Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Legal Officer Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director All other Group Managing Directors • Formulates high-level global risk policy • Exercises delegated risk management authority • Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls • Monitors all categories of risk and determines appropriate mitigating action • Promotes a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management • Develops and implements global standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered to throughout the Group • Oversees initiatives to ensure our conduct matches our values Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Risk Officers of HSBC’s global businesses and regions Heads of risk areas within the Global Risk Function • Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their execution • Oversees consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Subsidiary board committees responsible for risk-related matters and global business risk committees Independent non-executive directors and/or other independent members, as appropriate • Provides certification to the GRC or intermediate risk committee on risk-related matters and internal controls (other than over financial reporting) of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate Risk reporting and monitoring The GRC regularly monitors: • the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile against key performance/risk indicators, as set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-wide, global business and regional basis; • the top and emerging risks facing the Group; and • the risk profiles for separate categories of risk within the Group’s business identified in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-wide, global business and regional basis; and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by management. Reports on these items are presented at each meeting of the Committee. Regular reports from the Risk Management Meeting, which is the executive body responsible for overseeing risk, are also presented. In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief 324 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Risk Officer. The Committee also receives regular presentations from the Group Head of Compliance, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Legal Officer and other business, function and risk heads. Risk appetite Risk appetite is a key component of our management of risk. The Board, advised by the GRC, approves the Group’s risk appetite, which describes the types and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing our strategy and which is set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement. Embedding risk appetite statements and the related monitoring and reporting framework across the Group has continued to be an area of significant focus in 2012 with initiatives undertaken to: • further integrate consideration of risk appetite into the process for developing the Annual Operating Plan and to enhance alignment between Group strategy and risk appetite; and • continue to embed and develop risk appetite statements throughout the global businesses and functions. Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by the following core characteristics: Risk appetite: core characteristics • Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns • Strong balance sheet • Healthy capital position • Conservative liquidity management • Strong brand • Robust Group structure of separate legal entities • The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth • Risk diversification These core characteristics are applied to define the risk appetite statements on a Group-wide, global business and regional level. The relevant strategic and operational objectives, within which we expect businesses and regions to operate, are expressed quantitatively across the following dimensions: Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1. Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2. Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements 3. Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 4. Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5. Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments and expected losses 6. Manage impairments and expected losses within the Group’s tolerance Risk category and diversification 7. Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite 8. Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 9. Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical, businesses with local customers where we have local scale and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness Scenario and stress testing 10. Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Group’s capital adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is integral to our approach to risk management. We define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regions or global businesses and has the potential to have a material impact on our financial results or our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise within a one year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy. The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with management at each of its meetings. Current top and emerging risks, which are summarised below, are viewed as falling into three broad categories: macroeconomic and geopolitical; macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model; and risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems. The following table shows the current top and emerging risks identified through our risk management processes: 325 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Current top and emerging risks Categories Top and emerging risks Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk • Emerging market slow down • Macroeconomic risks within developed economies • Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model • Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability • Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand • Dispute risk Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems • Regulatory commitments and consent orders including under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement • Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn • Internet crime and fraud • Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk • Information security risk • Model risk Stress testing Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme is central to the monitoring of top and emerging risks. It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme but plausible events. The outcome of the testing and analysis is also used to assess the potential impact of the relevant scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital compared with its supply. Management develops action plans to mitigate risks identified. The extent to which those action plans are implemented depends on management’s evaluation of the risks and their potential consequences, taking into account HSBC’s risk appetite. Further information on scenario stress testing is set out on pages 127 and 128. Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three main classifications: regulatory scenarios; Group-wide business scenarios; and specific business or exposure scenarios. During the year, the GRC reviewed the outcome of a number of stress tests undertaken by the Group and the implementation of action plans to mitigate risks where appropriate; including stress tests on the Annual Operating Plan under mild and severe macroeconomic scenarios, a Group reverse liquidity stress test, a Group reverse solvency stress test and a eurozone break-up stress test. Internal Audit has conducted a review of stress testing within the Group including model development, validation and use, and the methodology, governance and management of enterprise-wide stress testing. The development of HSBC’s stress testing and scenario testing analysis programme will continue to be an area of focus for the Committee. Committee activities The GRC undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Oversight of executive risk management. Regular reports and presentations were received from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at each meeting a presentation of a ‘risk map’, which provided analysis, on a Group-wide, global business and regional basis, of risk profiles for categories of risk identified in the Group Risk Appetite Statement, and a top and emerging risks report which summarised proposed mitigating actions for identified risks. • Legal and regulatory environment. Reports were received from the Chief Legal Officer on forward-looking legal risks, the Group Head of Compliance on forward-looking compliance risks and the Head of Group Performance and Reward. Regular updates were received on the investigations by US regulatory and law enforcement authorities and US dispute risk and compliance matters in the US and the steps taken to remediate these compliance issues. The Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company Secretary and the external auditor and other senior executives attended Committee meetings. • Stress testing. The Committee reviewed the outcome of certain stress tests referred to in the 326 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) section headed ‘Stress Testing’ on pages 127 and 128. • Review of effectiveness of internal controls. The Committee undertook an annual review of HSBC’s systems of internal controls, other than over financial reporting. During 2012, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of such internal controls and reported regularly to the Board as described on page 334. A series of presentations were made, and reports submitted, by the Group Chief Risk Officer and other business and function heads to the Committee on the risk control framework in their respective business or function. Reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the internal audit process and weaknesses identified in internal controls (other than over financial reporting) were presented to the Committee, as well as reports from regulators relating to the internal control systems. • Risk appetite. The Committee reviewed the alignment of risk appetite and Group strategy. Regular reviews were undertaken of the Group’s risk profile against the key performance indicators set out in the risk appetite statement which considered the need for any adjustment to the risk appetite. Refinements to the 2012 Risk Appetite Statement were approved with the refined 2012 Risk Appetite Statement being used in the preparation of the Annual Operating Plan for 2013. Reports and presentations were received from the Group Chief Risk Officer, including on the results of HSBC’s stress testing and scenario analysis programme. • Alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. Presentations and reports were received on remuneration-related proposals to assist the Committee in giving advice to the Group Remuneration Committee on the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. The GRC considered risk-related issues to have been appropriately taken into account by the Group Remuneration Committee, including when determining the total variable pay funding pool for the 2012 performance year and the proposed design of the performance scorecard for the 2013 performance year. The Committee received presentations on the procedure for determining individual variable pay awards, including the risk assessment process for identifying matters for which risk-related adjustments may be made to individual and team awards. The process by which an individual’s adherence to HSBC Values and the Group’s risk-related policies and procedures is taken into account in performance assessment and determination of variable pay was also reported to the Committee. The Committee provided advice and feedback on risk-related matters to the Group Remuneration Committee where appropriate. • Top and emerging risks. In monitoring top and emerging risks the Committee received reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Compliance as well as other members of senior management on risks identified and developments in the Group’s business, including the changing regulatory environment; the implications of regulatory investigations and global market risk such as the implications of an emerging market slowdown and the impact on trade and capital flows. • Acquisitions and disposals. The Committee received reports and presentations on risk issues relating to proposed strategic acquisitions and the risk management of disposals and advised the Board appropriately. The Group Head of Mergers and Acquisitions and other members of senior management involved in proposed acquisitions and disposals attended meetings of the Committee as appropriate. • Oversight of risk governance framework. Minutes of the GAC, Group Remuneration Committee and executive committee meetings including the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee were provided to Committee members. From January 2013 the minutes of the Global Standards Steering Meeting and from February 2013 the minutes of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee will be made available to the Committee. • Terms of reference and Committee effectiveness. The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and of its own effectiveness. The Committee recommended to the Board a change to its terms of reference to maintain consistency with the terms of reference of the GAC which were amended to comply with changes to the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. • In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Legal Officer and other senior executives as required. 327 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Professional external advice on US compliance matters has been provided by Promontory Financial Group, US financial consultants. Terms of reference and subsidiary company risk oversight The GRC is responsible for non-executive oversight of risk management and internal controls, other than internal controls over financial reporting which is the responsibility of the GAC. To ensure consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary company committees, the GRC has established core terms of reference to guide subsidiary companies when adopting terms of reference for their non-executive risk committees (or audit committees if those committees are also responsible for the oversight of risk related matters). The Committee’s endorsement is required for any proposed material changes to subsidiary company risk committee terms of reference and for appointments to such committees. A forum for the chairmen of HSBC’s principal subsidiary company committees with responsibility for non-executive oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to share understanding and to facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which these subsidiary committees operate. The next forum will be held in June 2013. Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Members1 R A Fairhead (Chairman) J B Comey2 N Fishwick3 D Hartnett3, 4 W Hughes3 Sir Simon Robertson L H Schrank3 J C Zarate3, 5 1 All members appointed on 18 January 2013, unless otherwise indicated. 2 Appointed on 4 March 2013, being the date he became a Director. 3 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. 4 Appointed on 1 February 2013. 5 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, established by resolution of the Board in January 2013, has non-executive responsibility for governance, oversight and policy guidance over the framework of controls and procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC may become exposed and through that exposure, expose the financial system more broadly to financial crime or system abuse. The Committee will also have oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing, including the establishment, implementation, maintenance and review of adequate policies and procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met. The Committee will oversee and report to the Board on implementation of the actions necessary to build assurance in these areas and will seek to provide the Board with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk. The Committee will meet at least four times each year. Co-opted non-director members Five co-opted non-director members have been appointed advisers to the Committee to support its work. Brief biographical particulars are set out below: N Fishwick, CMG: former senior official in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (‘FCO’), specialising in security and counter-terrorism; seconded from 2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and Excise as Head of Intelligence (Law Enforcement), focusing on international counter-narcotics, tax and excise fraud; awarded the CMG in 2009. D Hartnett, CB: former Permanent Secretary for Tax at HM Revenue and Customs; focused on tax policy development, compliance and enforcement and international tax issues during his 36-year career in tax administration; former deputy chairman of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Forum on Tax Administration. W Hughes, CBE QPM: former head of the UK’s Serious Organised Crime Agency; international experience in the disruption, dismantling and criminal investigation of organised crime. L H Schrank: former chief executive officer of SWIFT, the global financial messaging system which supplies secure standardised financial messaging services and interface software to financial institutions; oversaw SWIFT’s relationship with the US Treasury Department and other countries on counter-terrorism issues. The Honourable J C Zarate: Senior Adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; the Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News; a Visiting Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School; national security consultant; former Deputy Assistant 328 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Combating Terrorism responsible for developing and implementing the US Government’s counter-terrorism strategy and policies related to transnational security threats; former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime; and former federal prosecutor who served on terrorism prosecution teams. Group Remuneration Committee Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 J L Thornton (Chairman) 7 8 J D Coombe 8 8 W S H Laidlaw 8 8 G Morgan2 5 5 Meetings held in 2012 8 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 2 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. R Fassbind has been appointed a member of the Committee since March 2013. The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration policy. As part of its role, it considers the terms of annual incentive plans, share plans, other long-term incentive plans and the individual remuneration packages of executive Directors and other senior Group employees, including all in positions of significant influence and those having an impact on our risk profile and in doing so takes into account the pay and conditions across the Group. No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 347 to 367. Nomination Committee Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members1 Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman) 4 4 R A Fairhead2 3 4 J W J Hughes-Hallett 4 4 J P Lipsky3 2 2 Sir Brian Williamson4 1 2 Meetings held in 2012 4 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 24 May 2012. 4 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. Committee activities The Committee undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: • Appointments of new Directors. The Committee oversaw the process for the appointments of J Faber, R Fassbind and J P Lipsky as Directors. An external search consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used in relation to these appointments. MWM Consulting has no other connection with HSBC. The Committee also oversaw the process for the appointment of J B Comey, who was introduced to us by a member of senior management. Having regard to his public and private sector roles neither external consultants nor advertising were considered necessary in relation to this appointment. • Board appointment process. The Committee leads the process for Board appointments, with the support of external consultants as appropriate. The Board has satisfied itself that the Committee has appropriate plans in place for orderly succession to the Board reflecting an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board. • Forward planning. The Committee adopts a forward-looking approach to potential candidates for appointment to the Board that takes into account the needs and development of the Group’s businesses and the expected retirement dates of current Directors. • Size, structure and composition. The Committee monitored the size, structure and composition of the Board through consideration of the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and the skills, knowledge and experience of the current Directors. The Committee considered the re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and has recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for re-election. • Diversity. During the year, the Board adopted a policy on Board diversity which is consistent with the Group’s strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity for the employee base. Board appointments will continue to be made based on merit and candidates will be considered against objective criteria, having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender. The Committee developed measurable objectives to implement this policy and monitored progress towards achieving these objectives. The Board diversity 329 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) policy is available at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/corporate-governance-codes. The benefits of diversity continue to influence succession planning and are key criteria in the instructions to external search consultants. • Director training and development. The Committee reviewed and monitored the training and continuous professional development of Directors and senior management. • Time commitment and independence of non-executive Directors. The Committee made recommendations to the Board, having assessed the independence of, and time required from, the non-executive Directors. • Terms of reference and Committee effectiveness. The Committee undertook a review of its terms of reference and its own effectiveness including the Committee’s role in assessing the independence of the non-executive Directors as required following changes made to The Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. Before recommending an appointment to the Board, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, in light of this, and taking into account the needs of the Group’s businesses, identifies the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. Candidates are considered on merit against these criteria. Care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to devote to us. Prospective Directors are asked to identify any significant other commitments and confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what is expected of them. Corporate Sustainability Committee Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend Members L M L Cha (Chairman)1 3 4 N R N Murthy2 4 4 G V I Davis3 3 4 Lord May4 4 4 Dame Mary Marsh4 4 4 Meetings held in 2012 4 1 Appointed Chairman on 1 January 2013. 2 Retired as a Director and Chairman of the Committee on 31 December 2012. 3 Retired as a co-opted non-director member of the Committee on 29 November 2012. 4 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. J W J Hughes-Hallett has been a member of the Committee since 1 January 2013. Sustainability governance The Corporate Sustainability Committee is responsible for advising the Board, committees of the Board and executive management on corporate sustainability policies across the Group including environmental, social and ethical issues. Corporate Sustainability exists as a global function. Senior executives are charged with implementing sustainable business practice in all major regions through inclusion in the HSBC Global Standards Manuals; and, through induction and developmental training. Local teams are in charge of embedding corporate sustainability strategies within banking activities. HSBC reports on its progress in developing and implementing its sustainability strategy annually in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is independently verified and prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative framework. The HSBC Sustainability Report 2012 will be issued on 24 May 2013 and will be available at www.hsbc.com/ sustainability. Corporate sustainability At HSBC, we understand that the success of our business is closely connected to the environmental, social and economic landscape. For us, corporate sustainability means achieving sustainable profit growth so that we can continue to reward shareholders and employees, build long-lasting relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes and duties in those countries where we operate, and invest in communities for future growth. The way we do business is as important as what we do: our responsibilities to our customers, employees and shareholders as well as to the countries and communities in which we operate go far wider than simply being profitable. Our continuing financial success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and address environmental, social and ethical factors which present risks or opportunities for the business. These can affect our reputation, drive employee engagement, help manage the risks of lending, leverage savings through eco-efficiency and secure new revenue streams. They generally fall into one or more of the four broad areas discussed below. Business finance We aim to build long-term customer relationships around the world through the provision of a consistent and high-quality service and customer experience. We use the benefits of our scale, 330 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) financial strength, geographical reach and strong brand value to achieve this. We aim to take advantage of the opportunities and manage the risks presented by emerging global trends by developing sustainable business models to address them. We understand that the world is changing and the threats of climate change and its impact on availability of natural resources are becoming ever more real. Increasing urbanisation, a growing population and rising commodity prices all raise concerns over potential resource constraints. For example, as recent HSBC research shows, climate change means that past hydrological trends are no longer indicative of future availability of freshwater; we face local water supply shortages as global demand increases. HSBC continues to play a leading role in shaping the market response to these challenges, identifying how business can adapt in ways that bring both social and environmental benefits, while providing viable economic returns. Throughout 2012, our Climate Change Centre of Excellence has continued to research the likely effects that climate change, and the responses to it, will have on our business and those of our customers. In the past year, HSBC Global Research has published reports on ‘Water Stress – Analysing the global challenges’ and ‘Less Bread for your Dough – The impact of rising food prices on the global economy’. HSBC’s Climate Business Council continues to support Global Businesses to identify customer opportunities arising from the shift to a low carbon economy. HSBC’s Global Banking and Markets teams played a leading role in some of the largest renewable energy projects announced in 2012. HSBC provided a range of financial services to the largest offshore wind project in Europe and the most powerful wind farm in Latin America. The two projects combined will provide over 666 megawatts of clean energy – equivalent of enough electricity to power over half a million homes. These deals highlight HSBC’s credentials in providing asset finance within the low carbon energy market and the strength of commercial teams working across several markets. Operational environmental efficiency We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on addressing and responding to issues associated with climate change, including energy use, water and waste management. This issue has the potential to affect materially our customers and, by extension, our long-term success, introducing new risks to business activity. We continue to focus on the ten goals of our operational sustainability strategy, which we announced at the end of 2011. Between 2012 and 2020 we aim to reduce our annual employee carbon emissions by one tonne, from 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes. HSBC’s carbon dioxide emissions For the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012, carbon dioxide emissions from HSBC’s global operations were 963,000 tonnes. This was 3% less than the 991,000 tonnes emitted in 2011. This figure is subject to independent verification. Further information on the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions will be given in the HSBC Sustainability Report 2012. Community investment We have a long-standing commitment to the communities in which we operate. Many of our key markets are emerging economies. Our operations bring benefits to our host countries through tax contributions, and to local people and businesses through employment, training, purchasing and investment. Beyond our core business, we aim to encourage social and economic opportunity through community investment activities. Our focus is on education and the environment because we believe they are essential building blocks for the development of communities and are prerequisites for economic growth. These philanthropic programmes aim to involve employees in the work of local non-government organisations (‘NGOs’) and charities. Our global education programmes focus on helping disadvantaged children, promoting financial literacy and international and cultural understanding. In 2012, we launched our new flagship environmental programme, the HSBC Water Programme. This is a five-year, US$100m programme in partnership with three NGOs which rank amongst the world’s most respected environmental and development organisations. Together with Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF, the Programme will deliver the powerful combination of water provision, protection, information and education; resulting in the most ground-breaking water programme committed to by a financial organisation. The Programme will benefit communities in need and enable economies to prosper, driving development and social-economic growth. Following the success of our previous HSBC Climate Partnership, this programme will create a community of employees and opportunities for employee involvement and volunteering. In 2012, we donated a total of US$120m to community investment projects (2011: US$96m). 331 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Employee issues ‘Employee engagement’ describes employees’ emotional and intellectual commitment to their organisation and its success and is critical to the long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest quality of financial services. Our Global People Survey is carried out every other year and shows that employees value our commitment to sustainable business practices and view us as being a leader in this regard. In the latest survey, taken in 2011, 81% of colleagues said they were satisfied with the actions HSBC is taking to embed sustainability (e.g. environmental and social issues) into the way we run our business. Sustainability risk Our approach to managing sustainability risk is detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 280. Internal control The Directors are responsible for internal control in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness. Procedures have been designed for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for the reliability and usefulness of financial information used within the business or for publication. Such procedures are designed to manage and mitigate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to discharge its obligations under the ‘Handbook of Rules and Guidance’ issued by the FSA, HSBC’s lead regulator. The key procedures that the Directors have established are designed to provide effective internal control within HSBC and accord with the ‘Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Such procedures for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place throughout the year and up to 4 March 2013, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. In the case of companies acquired during the year, the internal controls in place are being reviewed against HSBC’s benchmarks and integrated into HSBC’s processes. HSBC’s key internal control procedures include the following: • Global standards. Functional, operating, financial reporting and certain management reporting standards are established by global function management committees, for application throughout HSBC. These are supplemented by operating standards set by functional and local management as required for the type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary. • Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board. Authority to operate the various subsidiaries and responsibilities for financial performance against plans and for capital expenditure are delegated to their respective chief executive officers within limits set by the Board. Delegation of authority from the Board to individuals requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities and to oversee the establishment and maintenance of systems of control appropriate to the business. The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within HSBC requires the approval of the Board. • Risk identification and monitoring. Systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, control and report on the major risks including credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability, operational (including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, fiduciary, information, external fraud, internal fraud, political, physical, business continuity, systems operations, project and people risk) and Islamic finance risk. Exposure to these risks is monitored by risk management committees, asset and liability committees and executive committees in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in Risk Management Meetings (‘RMM’) of the GMB which are chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer. RMM meets each month (except August) to address asset, liability and risk management issues. HSBC’s operational risk profile and the effective implementation of the Group’s operational risk management framework is monitored by the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee (‘GORCC’), which reports to the RMM. Model risks are monitored by the Model Oversight Committee which also reports to the RMM. The minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and the Board. • Changes in market conditions/practices. Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could expose HSBC to heightened risk 332 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) of loss or reputational damage. During 2012, attention was focused on: – severe economic slowdown in mature economies impacting global growth; – eurozone members departure from the currency union; – increased geopolitical risk; – emerging market slowdown; – macroeconomic risks within developed economies; – regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability; – regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand; – dispute risk; – regulatory commitments and consent orders including the Deferred Prosecution Agreements; – challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn; – internet crime and fraud; – social media risk; – level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational risk; – information risk; and – model risk. • Strategic plans. Periodic strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions and certain geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s strategy. Annual Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted by all major HSBC operating companies and set out the key business initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives. • Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure Committee reviews material public disclosures made by HSBC Holdings for any material errors, misstatements or omissions. The membership of the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Group Company Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, Legal, Risk and Compliance, Communications, Investor Relations and Internal Audit functions and representatives from the principal regions and global businesses. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes within the Finance and Risk functions that support expert and rigorous analytical review of financial reporting complemented by certified reviews by heads of global businesses, global functions and certain legal entities. • Financial reporting. The Group financial reporting process for preparing the consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is controlled using documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by a chart of accounts with detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued by Group Finance to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting period end. The submission of financial information from each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject to certification by the responsible financial officer, and analytical review procedures at reporting entity and Group levels. • Responsibility for risk management. Management of global businesses and global functions are primarily accountable for managing, measuring and monitoring their risks and controls. Processes consistent with the Three Lines of Defence principle are in place to ensure weaknesses are escalated to senior management and addressed. • IT operations. Centralised functional control is exercised over all IT developments and operations. Common systems are employed for similar business processes wherever practicable. • Functional management. Global functional management is responsible for setting policies, procedures and standards for the following risks: credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability and operational risk (including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, fiduciary, information security, security and fraud, systems and people risk). Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies. The concurrence of the appropriate global function is required, however, to credit proposals with specified higher risk characteristics. Credit and market risks are measured and reported on in subsidiaries and aggregated for review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide basis. • CEO Attestation process. Global Operational Risk coordinate the annual CEO Attestation process under which the chief executive officer of each of the Group’s material subsidiaries confirms that the internal control framework applicable to that subsidiary has been assessed and any significant open issues have been identified, with action plans in place to address weaknesses. The remediation of these issues is 333 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) monitored by the Operational Risk and Internal Control (‘ORIC’) teams for the relevant regions/global businesses and reports on progress are presented to their ORIC committees and quarterly to Global Operational Risk. An annual report and updates on identified issues and remediation plans are presented to the GRC and the GAC. • Internal Audit. The establishment and maintenance of appropriate systems of internal control is primarily the responsibility of business management. The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally controlled, provides independent assurance in respect of the design and operating effectiveness of the risk management and control frameworks across the Group, focusing on the areas of greatest risk to HSBC using a risk-based approach. The head of this function reports to the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the GAC and the GRC on risk-related matters. • Internal Audit recommendations. Executive management is responsible for ensuring that recommendations made by the Internal Audit function are implemented within an appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be provided to Internal Audit. • Reputational risk. Policies to guide subsidiary companies and management at all levels in the conduct of business to safeguard the Group’s reputation are established by the Board and its committees, subsidiary company boards and their committees and senior management. Reputational risks can arise from a variety of causes including environmental, social and governance issues, as a consequence of operational risk events and as a result of employees acting in a manner inconsistent with HSBC’s Values. As a banking group, HSBC’s good reputation depends upon the way in which it conducts its business but it can also be affected by the way in which clients, to which it provides financial services, conduct their business or use financial products and services. The GAC has non-executive responsibility for oversight of internal controls over financial reporting and the GRC has non-executive responsibility for internal controls other than over financial reporting. The GRC and the GAC have kept under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control and have reported regularly to the Board of Directors. In carrying out their reviews the GRC and the GAC receive regular business and operational risk assessments; regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Head of Global Internal Audit; reports on the annual reviews of the internal control framework of HSBC Holdings which cover all internal controls, both financial and non-financial; annual confirmations from chief executives of principal subsidiary companies as to whether there have been any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in internal controls; internal audit reports; external audit reports; prudential reviews; and regulatory reports. The GRC monitors the status of top and emerging risks which impact or may impact the Group and considers whether the mitigating actions put in place are appropriate. In addition, when unexpected losses have arisen or when incidents have occurred which indicate gaps in the control framework or in adherence to Group policies, the GRC and the GAC review special reports, prepared at the instigation of management, which analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions proposed by management to address the issue. The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of our system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management systems, the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the accounting and financial reporting function and the risk function, and their training programmes and budget. The review does not extend to joint ventures or associates. The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of our framework of controls. Going concern basis The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources. Further information relevant to the assessment is provided elsewhere in this report. In particular, HSBC’s principal activities, business and operating models, strategic direction and top and emerging risks are described in the ‘Overview’ section; a financial summary, including a review of the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, is provided in the ‘Operating and Financial Review’ section; HSBC’s objectives, 334 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity and market risk are described in the ‘Risk’ section; and HSBC’s approach to capital management and allocation is described in the ‘Capital’ section. Employees At 31 December 2012 we had a total workforce of 270,000 full-time and part-time employees compared with 298,000 at the end of 2011 and 307,000 at the end of 2010. Our main centres of employment are the UK with approximately 48,000 employees, India 30,000, Hong Kong 28,000, Brazil 23,000, mainland China 18,000, Mexico 18,000, the US 17,000 and France 10,000. In the context of the current global financial services operating environment, a high performance and values-led work force is critical. We encourage open and honest communication in decision making. Employment issues and financial, economic, regulatory and competitive factors affecting HSBC’s performance are regularly shared with our employees. Global People Survey In 2012, quarterly Pulse Surveys were introduced to assess in a more timely way the understanding and execution of our Group strategy, our culture, our performance and the engagement of our people generally. Every three months, a quarter of the Group’s employees are randomly sampled and hence all employees are covered over the course of the year. A Global People Survey will take place biennially, the next one being in 2013. Over 2012, the Group strategy index score improved by 2% to 54% in the fourth quarter and the average participation rate was 56%, which is around median for comparable surveys externally. Reward Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market competitive, underpinned by an ethical and values based performance culture which aligns the interests of our employees, shareholders, regulators and customers. See ‘Employee share plans’ on pages 336 to 337. Employee relations We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as appropriate. The five highest concentrations of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, Malta and Mexico. It is our policy to maintain well-developed communications and consultation programmes with all employee representative bodies and there have been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes during the past five years. Diversity and inclusion HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high performance culture where all employees are valued, respected and where their opinions count. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture where employees believe that their views are heard, their concerns are attended to and they work in an environment where bias, discrimination and harassment on any matter, including gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality and disability are not tolerated and where advancement is based on objectivity. Our inclusive culture helps us respond to our diverse customer base, while developing and retaining a secure supply of skilled, committed employees. Our culture will be strengthened by employing the best people and optimising their ideas, abilities and differences. Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda and related activities resides with executives on the Group Diversity Committee, complemented by the Group People Committee and local People/Diversity Committees. Staff development The development of employees in both developed and emerging markets is essential to the future strength of our business. We have implemented a systematic approach to identifying, developing and deploying talented employees to ensure an appropriate supply of high calibre individuals with the values, skills and experience for current and future senior management positions. In 2012, we continued to build global consistency across our learning curricula and to improve the relevance and quality of learning programmes. We have endeavoured to achieve a standard of excellence focusing on leadership, values and technical capability. 335 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Employment of disabled persons We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The employment of disabled persons is included in this commitment and the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. Health and safety The maintenance of appropriate health and safety standards remains a key responsibility of all managers and we are committed to proactively managing all health and safety risks associated with our business. Our objectives are to identify, remove, reduce or control material risks relating to fires and accidents or injuries to employees, customers and visitors. Group policies, standards and guidance for the management of health and safety are set by global Corporate Real Estate. Achieving these in each country in which we operate is the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer of that country with support and coordination provided by the Health and Safety Coordinator for that country. In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, Global Security and Fraud Risk provide regular security risk assessments to assist management in judging the level of terrorist and violent criminal threat. Regional Security and Fraud Risk functions conduct regular security reviews of all Group buildings to ensure measures to protect our staff, buildings, assets and information are appropriate to the level of threat. We remain committed to maintaining our preparedness and to ensuring the highest standards of health and safety wherever in the world we operate. Remuneration policy The quality and commitment of our human capital is fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very best people. As trust and relationships are vital in our business our goal is to recruit those who are committed to making a long-term career with the organisation. HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective through balancing of both short-term and sustainable performance. Our reward strategy aims to reward success, not failure, and be properly aligned with our risk framework and related outcomes. In order to ensure alignment between remuneration and our business strategy, individual remuneration is determined through assessment of performance delivered against both annual and long-term objectives summarised in performance scorecards as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance is judged, not only on what is achieved over the short and long-term, but also on how it is achieved, as the latter contributes to the sustainability of the organisation. The financial and non-financial measures incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the long-term strategy of the Group. Further information on the Group’s approach to remuneration is given on page 347. Employee share plans Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with those of shareholders. The tables on the following pages set out the particulars of outstanding options, including those held by employees working under employment contracts that are regarded as ‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance. The options were granted at nil consideration. No options have been granted to substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the individual limit for each share plan. No options were cancelled by HSBC during the year. A summary for each plan of the total number of the options which were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2012 is shown in the following tables. Further details required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our website at www.hsbc.com by selecting ‘Investor Relations’, then ‘Governance’, then ‘Share Plans’, and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk or can be obtained upon request from the Group Company Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on page 363. Note 7 on the Financial Statements gives details on share-based payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans. 336 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) All-employee share option plans All-employee share option plans have operated within the Group and employees on the first working day of the year were eligible to be granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Options under the plans are usually exercisable after one, three or five years. The exercise of options may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example on retirement, and may be extended in certain circumstances, for example on the death of a participant, the executors of the participant’s estate may exercise options up to six months beyond the normal exercise period. The middle market closing price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List on 23 April 2012, the day before options were granted in 2012, was £5.46. A review of the plans will be undertaken in 2013 and there will be no grant of options while that review is ongoing. The all-employee share option plans will terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to terminate the plans at an earlier date. HSBC Holdings All-employee Share Option Plans HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards Exercise price Exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2012 during year during year during year 31 Dec 2012 Savings-Related Share Option Plan1 26 Apr 2006 24 Apr2012 (£) 3.3116 (£) 6.6870 1 Aug2011 31 Jan2018 68,499,109 20,726,298 25,390,031 8,859,311 54,976,065 Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International2 26 Apr 2006 24 Apr2012 (£) 3.3116 (£) 6.6870 1 Aug2011 31 Jan2018 26,615,253 8,549,570 12,032,666 5,663,420 17,468,737 26 Apr 2006 24 Apr2012 (US$) 4.8876 (US$)12.0958 1 Aug2011 31 Jan2018 9,752,066 2,666,374 3,440,522 2,489,024 6,488,894 26 Apr 2006 24 Apr2012 (€) 3.6361 (€) 9.5912 1 Aug2011 31 Jan2018 3,176,265 827,832 1,407,390 416,444 2,180,263 26 Apr 2006 24 Apr2012 (HK$)37.8797 (HK$)94.5057 1 Aug2011 31 Jan2018 45,422,511 12,098,312 21,684,534 4,198,449 31,637,840 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.46. 2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.45. Discretionary Share Option Plans There have been no grants of discretionary share options under employee share plans since 30 September 2005. Exercise HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards price (£) Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2012 during year during year 31 Dec 2012 HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan1,2 7 May 2002 20 Apr2005 6.0216 7.9606 7 May2005 20 Apr2015 120,797,419 1,606,032 32,018,464 87,172,923 HSBC Share Plan 30 Sep 2005 7.9911 30 Sep2008 30 Sep2015 86,046 – – 86,046 1 The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan expired on 26 May 2005. No options have been granted under the Plan since that date. 2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.43. Subsidiary company share plans HSBC France When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and certain of its subsidiary companies operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares. Under the terms of the employee share option plan, holders of options to acquire shares of HSBC France were obliged to exchange the HSBC France shares they received on exercise of these options for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC France are set out in the following table. No further options will be granted under this share plan. 337 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) HSBC France HSBC France shares of €5 Exercise Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At Date of award price (€) from to 1 Jan 20121 during year during year 31 Dec 20121 1 Oct 2002 142.84 2 Oct2005 1 Oct2012 22,645 – 22,645 – 1 If options over HSBC France Shares had been exercised, these options would have been exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 13.499897 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share. At 31 December 2012, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 (Private Banking France) held 989,502 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. HSBC Finance Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all outstanding options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Finance common shares were converted into options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance (2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC Holdings under the share plan of HSBC Finance are set out in the following table. No further options will be granted under this share plan. HSBC Finance: 1996 Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Date of award Exercise Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At price (US$) from to 1 Jan 2012 during year1 during year 31 Dec 20122 20 Nov 2002 9.29 20 Nov 2003 20 Nov 2012 2,429,538 2,053,838 375,700 – 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.06. 2 At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held 281,477 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 American Depositary Shares, each of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. HSBC Bank Bermuda Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all outstanding options over HSBC Bank Bermuda shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda share) by the average price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares over the five day period to the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC Holdings under the share plans of HSBC Bank Bermuda are set out in the following table. No further options will be granted under the share plans of HSBC Bank Bermuda. HSBC Bank Bermuda Exercise HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of awards price (US$) Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed At from to from to from to 1 Jan 2012 during year during year 31 Dec 20121 Share Option Plan 2000 30 Jan 2002 21 Apr 2003 9.32 14.02 30 Jan 2003 21 Apr 2013 1,014,026 – 864,102 149,924 Directors’ Share Option Plan 3 Apr 2002 13.95 3 Apr 2003 3 Apr 2012 16,881 – 16,881 – 1 At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee share options. 338 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Other required disclosures Further information about share capital, directors’ interests, supplier payment policy, dividends and shareholders is set out in the Appendix to this section on pages 340 to 346. 2013 Annual General Meeting Our Annual General Meeting in 2013 will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on 24 May 2013 at 11.00am. An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on Monday 20 May 2013 at 4.30pm. Resolutions to receive the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report, elect or re-elect Directors and reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting. KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office and the Group Audit Committee and the Board has recommended that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed. Resolutions will also be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority for the allotment of shares, disapply pre-emption rights, renew the authority for the purchase of ordinary shares, and approve general meetings (other than Annual General Meetings) being called on a minimum of 14 clear days’ notice. A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting will be available on www.hsbc.com. From shortly after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting until 30 June 2013 a recording of the proceedings will be available on www.hsbc.com. On behalf of the Board D J Flint, Group Chairman 4 March 2013 HSBC Holdings plc Registered number 617987 339 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Appendix to Report of the Directors Other required disclosures Share capital Issued share capital The nominal value of our issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2012 was US$9,238,018,832 divided into 18,476,008,664 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 1 non-cumulative preference share of £0.01. The percentage of the nominal value of our total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2012 represented by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively. Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of Association subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, redemption. To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no lien and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency. The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped (if required). The transfer must be delivered to our registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves the title of the transferor. If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares) and has failed in relation to any shares (the ‘default shares’) to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, unless the Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder. If the default shares represent at least 0.25% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be withheld by the Company without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered except in limited circumstances. Ordinary shares Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, HSBC Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits available for distribution. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the nominal amount paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly. Subject to the Articles of Association, the Board may, with the prior authority of an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, offer to any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the Board) of any dividend specified by the ordinary resolution. At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or 24 May 2017. Preference shares There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of HSBC Holdings, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each (the ‘Dollar Preference Shares’), non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each (the 340 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) ‘Sterling Preference Shares’) and non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 (the ‘Euro Preference Shares’). The Dollar Preference Shares in issue are Series A Dollar Preference Shares and the Sterling Preference Share in issue is a Series A Sterling Preference Share. There are no Euro Preference Shares in issue. Dollar Preference Shares Holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings if any dividend payable on the relevant preference shares in respect of such period as the Board shall determine prior to allotment thereof is not paid in full or in such other circumstances, and upon and subject to such terms, as the Board may determine prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013 the relevant period determined by the Board is four consecutive dividend payment dates. Whenever holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are entitled to vote on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of hands every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote per preference share held by him or her or such number of votes per share as the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such share. Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right to a non-cumulative preferential dividend at such rate, on such dates and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other preference shares in issue and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards income; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards income). A dividend of US$62 per annum is payable on each Dollar Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013. The dividend is paid at the rate of US$15.50 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. A dividend will not be declared or paid on the Dollar Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the relevant preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. Dividends will not be declared or paid on any class of shares of HSBC Holdings ranking lower in the right to dividends than the Dollar Preference Shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the Dollar Preference Shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the Dollar Preference Shares for the then-current dividend period. The Dollar Preference Shares carry no rights to participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings other than as set out in the Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act 2006, do not confer any right to participate in any offer or invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do not confer any right of conversion and do not confer any right to participate in any issue of bonus shares or shares issued by way of capitalisation of reserves. Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right in a winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the assets of HSBC Holdings available for distribution to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other relevant preference shares and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards repayment of capital; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards repayment of capital), a sum equal to any unpaid dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance with or pursuant to the Articles of Association and the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the Dollar Preference Shares together with such premium (if any) as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013, the premium is US$999.99 per Dollar Preference Share. The Dollar Preference Shares may be redeemed in accordance with the Articles of Association and the terms on which Dollar Preference Shares were issued and allotted. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013, HSBC Holdings may redeem such shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to the prior consent of the FSA. 341 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Sterling Preference Shares The Sterling Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Sterling Preference Shares to be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. The one Sterling Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013 carries the same rights and obligations as the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013 to the extent described in the section above save as follows: 1. the holder of the Sterling Preference Share is not entitled to attend or vote at general meetings; 2. the Sterling Preference Share may be redeemed in whole on any date as may be determined by the Board; and 3. the exceptions to the circumstances in which a dividend will not be declared or paid do not apply. A dividend of £0.04 per annum is payable on the Sterling Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013. The dividend is paid at the rate of £0.01 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. Euro Preference Shares The Euro Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Euro Preference Shares which are to be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. Share capital during 2012 The following events occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings: Scrip dividends HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Market value Issued in lieu of In Number US$ £ Third interim dividend for 2011 January 2012 96,994,187 7.4224 4.7461 Fourth interim dividend for 2011 May 2012 28,357,393 9.1170 5.7466 First interim dividend for 2012 July 2012 91,127,385 8.2065 5.2022 Second interim dividend for 2012 October 2012 87,820,228 8.9127 5.6560 Third interim dividend for 2012 December 2012 65,036,059 9.8255 6.1138 All-Employee share plans Number Exercise price from to HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans HSBC ordinary shares issued in £ 37,422,697 £ 3.3116 6.1760 HSBC ordinary shares issued in HK$ 21,684,534 HK$ 37.8797 63.9864 HSBC ordinary shares issued in US$ 3,440,522 US$ 4.8876 8.7225 HSBC ordinary shares issued in € 1,407,390 € 3.6361 6.0657 Options over HSBC ordinary shares lapsed 21,626,648 Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to approximately 53,000 applications from HSBC employees in over 60 countries and territories on 24 April 2012 44,868,386 Plan d’Epargne Entreprise HSBC ordinary shares issued for the benefit of non-UK resident employees of HSBC France and its subsidiaries 2,274,523 € 5.695 Discretionary share incentive plans HSBC ordinary Exercise price Options shares issued (£) lapsed Options exercised under: The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan 1,606,032 6.0216 32,018,464 342 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) Authority to allot shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot new shares. The general authority is to allot up to 3,624,050,000 ordinary shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. Within this, the Directors have authority to allot up to a maximum of 906,012,000 ordinary shares wholly for cash to persons other than existing shareholders. Other than as described above, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2012. Treasury shares In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC Holdings will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of any shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury. No shares are currently held in treasury. Directors’ interests Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2012 had the following interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations: Directors’ interests – shares and loan capital At 31 December 2012 At 1 January 2012 Beneficial owner Child under 18 or spouse Jointlywithanotherperson Trustee Total interests1 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares J D Coombe 21,139 22,387 – – – 22,387 R A Fairhead 21,300 – – 21,300 – 21,300 D J Flint 272,861 313,326 – – 37,162 2 350,488 S T Gulliver 2,731,100 2,553,592 176,885 – – 2,730,477 J W J Hughes-Hallett 46,952 – – – – – W S H Laidlaw 31,872 32,252 – – 1,416 2 33,668 J P Lipsky3 – 15,000 – – – 15,000 I J Mackay 133,648 118,813 – – – 118,813 Sir Simon Robertson 176,709 9,486 – – 167,750 2 177,236 J L Thornton4 10,250 – 10,250 – – 10,250 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 L M L Cha 300 300 – – – 300 RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 J Faber5 – 5.1 – – – 5.1 1 Details of executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, the HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 363. At 31 December 2012, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee share plans were: D J Flint – 566,423; S T Gulliver – 5,178,992 and I J Mackay – 536,205. Each Director’s total interests represents less than 0.03% of the shares in issue. 2 Non-beneficial. 3 Interest in 3,000 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 4 Interest of spouse in 2,050 listed ADS. 5 Non-beneficial interest in renminbi (RMB) 1.2m 2.875% Notes 2015. 343 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) S T Gulliver ceased to have an interest as beneficial owner in one share of €5 in HSBC France (representing less than 0.01 per cent of the shares in issue), following his resignation as a director of that company on 22 November 2012. S T Gulliver had waived his rights to receive dividends on the share and had undertaken to transfer the share to HSBC on ceasing to be a director of HSBC France. No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated above, none of the Directors had an interest in any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any associated corporation at the beginning or at the end of the year, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year. Since the end of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Director has increased by the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares shown against his name: HSBC Holdings ordinary shares D J Flint (beneficial owner) 351 1 The acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions. Since the end of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Director have decreased by the number of debentures shown against his name. HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. 5.3687% Preferred Securities 2014 EUR000 R Fassbind (beneficial owner) 500 There have been no other changes in the share and loan capital interests of the Directors from 31 December 2012 to the date of this Report. Any subsequent changes up to the last practicable date before the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be set out in the notes to that Notice. At 31 December 2012, non-executive Directors and senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) held, in aggregate, beneficial interests in 14,450,028 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares (0.08% of the issued ordinary shares). At 31 December 2012, executive Directors and senior management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 357,509 of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan. These options are exercisable between 2012 and 2016 at prices ranging from £3.3116 to £7.2181 per ordinary share. Supplier payment policy HSBC has signed up to the Government’s Prompt Payment Code (further information on, and copies of, the Code can be obtained by visiting www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk). Our policy is to settle terms of payment with our suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment. The amount due to trade creditors at 31 December 2012 represented 39 days’ average daily purchases of goods and services received from such creditors, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as amended by Statutory Instrument 2008 No. 410. The average amount due to trade creditors during 2012 represented 28 days’ average daily purchases of goods and services received from such creditors. Dividends and shareholders Dividends for 2012 First, second and third interim dividends for 2012, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 5 July 2012, 4 October 2012 and 12 December 2012 respectively. Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives more information on the dividends declared in 2012. On 4 March 2013, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable on 8 May 2013 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 29 April 2013, with a scrip dividend alternative. As the fourth interim dividend for 2012 was declared after 31 December 2012 it has not been included 344 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) in the balance sheet of HSBC as a debt. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2012 were US$38,175m. A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20% non-cumulative US Dollar Preference Share, Series A (‘Series A Dollar Preference Share’), (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share), was paid on 15 March, 15 June, 17 September and 17 December 2012. Dividends for 2013 The proposed timetable for interim dividends in respect of 2013 on the ordinary shares is set out in the Shareholder Information section on page 516. Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per Series A Dollar Preference Share (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share) and £0.01 per Series A Sterling Preference Share were declared on 7 February 2013 for payment on 15 March 2013. Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority. The Board has adopted a shareholder communication policy which is available on www.hsbc.com. Extensive information about our activities is provided to shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Review and the Interim Report which are available on www.hsbc.com. There is regular dialogue with institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholdings and our business are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss our progress. Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing to the Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company (excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting. A resolution may properly be moved at a meeting unless it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s constitution or otherwise); it is defamatory of any person; or it is frivolous or vexatious. A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may be made in writing to the postal address referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. At any meeting convened on such request no business shall be transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. Notifiable interests in share capital At 31 December 2012, we had received the following disclosures (which have not been subsequently changed) of major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the FSA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: • Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on 9 March 2010 that it had a direct interest on 8 March 2010 in 696,851,431 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the total voting rights at that date; and • BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 December 2009 that on 7 December 2009 it had the following: an indirect interest in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of 1,142,439,457; qualifying financial instruments with 705,100 voting rights that may be acquired if the instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments which refer to 234,880 voting rights, each representing 6.56%, 0.0041% and 0.0013% respectively, of the total voting rights at that date. At 31 December 2012, according to the register maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong: • JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 7 November 2012 that on 30 October 2012 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,261,592,952 shares; a short position of 71,252,702 345 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) shares; and a lending pool of 1,007,026,189 shares, each representing 6.85%, 0.39% and 5.47%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. Since 31 December 2012 and following interim notifications on 14, 17, 23 January and 13 February 2013, JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 15 February 2013 that on 12 February 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,294,366,810 shares; a short position of 64,591,997 shares; and a lending pool of 1,017,759,703 shares each representing 7.00%, 0.35% and 5.51% respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. • BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 10 November 2012 that on 7 November 2012 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,103,721,816 shares and a short position of 35,922,568 shares, each representing 5.99% and 0.19%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. Since 31 December 2012 and following interim notifications on 3 and 4 January 2013, BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 8 January 2013 that on 3 January 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,110,172,768 shares and a short position of 35,234,325 shares, each representing 6.00% and 0.19%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at least 25% of the total issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 2012 and up to the date of this Report. Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC Bank and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which are members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries have purchased, sold or redeemed any of our listed securities during the year ended 31 December 2012. 346 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Report of the Group Remuneration Committee Page App1 Summary letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman 347 Summary of remuneration policy 351 Summary of 2012 remuneration outcomes 354 Additional disclosures 361 Emoluments table 361 Non-executive Directors’ fees 362 Other directorships 363 Share plans 363 Pensions 365 Employee compensation and benefits 366 1 Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report Summary letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder This report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and provides details of the Group Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) and remuneration policy of the Company. This report has been prepared by the Committee with reference to the draft regulations put forward by the UK Government Department of Business, Innovation and Skills regarding the requirements for the content of a Directors’ Remuneration Report. The regulations will apply to all UK companies listed on a major stock exchange with financial years ending on or after October 2013, and this report is therefore prepared using the new standards on a voluntary basis, to meet best practice in reporting. In line with this draft legislation, the report is provided in three sections: the summary of the report, a section outlining HSBC’s forward-looking remuneration policy and a section setting out remuneration outcomes for 2012. Additional disclosures as required under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and other disclosure requirements are provided at the end of the report in the appendix. Remuneration strategy The quality and commitment of our human capital is fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very best people. As trust and relationships are vital in our business, our goal is to recruit those who are committed to maintaining a long-term career with the organisation. HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective through balancing both short-term and sustainable performance. Our reward strategy aims to reward success, not failure, and be properly aligned with our risk framework and risk outcomes. In order to ensure alignment between remuneration and our business strategy, individual remuneration is determined through assessment of performance delivered against both annual and long-term objectives summarised in performance scorecards as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance is judged, not only on what is achieved over the short and long term, but also on how it is achieved, as the latter contributes to the sustainability of the organisation. The financial and non-financial measures incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the long-term strategy of the Group. Structure of remuneration In order to simplify remuneration, elements are limited to the following: • fixed pay; • benefits; • annual incentive; and • the Group Performance Share Plan. The Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) was developed to incentivise senior executives to deliver sustainable long-term business performance. A key feature of the GPSP is that participants are required to hold the awards, once they have vested, until retirement, thereby enhancing the alignment of interest between the senior executives of the Group and shareholders. Further details are given on page 351. Executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers participate in both performance-related plans, namely the annual incentive and the GPSP. Other employees across the Group are eligible to participate in annual incentive arrangements. Both the annual incentive and long-term incentive awards are funded from a single annual variable pay pool from which individual awards are considered. Funding of the Group’s annual variable pay pool is determined in the context of Group profitability, capital strength, and shareholder returns. This approach ensures 347 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) that performance related awards for any global business, global function, geography or level of staff are considered in a holistic fashion. Overall performance summary of 2012 During 2012, management continued to execute the Board endorsed strategy to simplify, restructure and grow the Group. The Group announced 26 disposals or closures exiting non-strategic markets and selling businesses and non-core investments. The Group also recorded an additional US$2.0bn in sustainable cost savings, which takes total annualised savings to US$3.6bn. This surpasses the cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn on sustainable savings since 2011. A focus on positioning the business for growth delivered underlying revenue growth in most priority markets. The growth in these markets was a factor in generating a record reported profit before tax in CMB as HSBC maintained its position as the world’s largest global trade finance bank, as reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012. The following summarises the Group’s 2012 financial performance: • reported profit before tax fell compared with 2011, but rose on an underlying basis; • underlying revenue grew by 7%, led by GB&M which recorded growth in the majority of its businesses, most notably in Credit and Rates, as spreads tightened and investor sentiment improved in Europe. CMB also recorded revenue growth as customer loans and advances increased in all regions, with over half of this growth coming from the faster-growing regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, driven by higher trade-related lending. In Europe, lending balances increased, notably in the UK, despite muted demand for credit. In addition, RBWM experienced revenue growth in all faster-growing regions, in particular Hong Kong and Latin America; • loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions reduced significantly, notably in North America, primarily reflecting the continued decline in lending balances and lower delinquency rates in CML; • notwithstanding the sustainable savings noted above, the cost efficiency ratio increased from 57.5% in 2011 to 62.8% in 2012 and remained outside the Group’s target range. This was primarily due to fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of the investigations into our past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, additional provisions in respect of UK customer redress programmes and a credit in 2011 relating to defined benefit pension obligations in the UK which did not recur. The increase also reflected inflationary pressures on wages and salaries in certain of our Latin American and Asian markets, investment in strategic initiatives, including certain business expansion projects, enhanced processes and technology capabilities, and increased investment in regulatory and compliance infrastructure, primarily in the US; • we maintained a strong balance sheet, with a ratio of customer advances to customer accounts of 74.4%; • return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity was 8.4%, down from 10.9% in 2011, primarily reflecting adverse movements in the fair value of our own debt attributable to credit spreads, a higher tax charge and higher average shareholders’ equity; • dividends in respect of 2012 to our shareholders were increased from US$0.41 per ordinary share in 2011 to US$0.45 per ordinary share; and • core tier 1 capital increased during 2012 through capital generation and the reduction of risk-weighted assets following business disposals. Group variable pay pool (Unaudited) The 2012 Group variable pay pool was considered in the context of the Group’s underlying profit before tax. This calculation of profit excludes movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread and the impact of acquisitions and disposals and includes the costs of the US regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties and other items of redress arising in 2012. For the purposes of considering the variable pay pool the normal profits from the disposed businesses up to their actual disposal are included in the calculation. Specific actions taken in respect of 2012 • In addition to the cost of fines and penalties and redress being taken into account in the initial determination of the variable pay pool through their impact on underlying profits, a further reduction was made to the overall 2012 pool by the Committee to reflect the reputational damage incurred from the US legal and regulatory fines and penalties and to shift a higher proportion of the impact to the variable pay pool. 348 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) • Additionally, for annual incentive awards in respect of 2012 for executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers, the deferred element of the 2012 incentive will be deferred for an extended period of five years and will vest subject to satisfactory completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements and subject to the terms of the GPSP. • The Committee has further exercised its discretion and reduced the performance outcome of the 2012 long-term scorecard. For further details see page 357. • Clawback has been exercised by the Committee during 2012 and 2013 principally in respect of the US regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties. Group Global Banking and Markets 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m Total variable pay pool 3,689 4,223 1,266 1,210 % % % % Variable compensation incentive pool as a percentage of underlying pre-tax profit (pre-variable pay)1 17 18 13 14 Proportion of incentive that is deferred 17 16 28 27 1 The 2012 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay calculation is described on page 348. The 2011 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay includes the add-back of restructuring costs incurred during the year, and the adjustment for movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread. Change in key metrics (Unaudited) The table and charts below show the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall expenditure on staff pay. Underlying profit % Dividend% Overall expenditureon staff pay% Change: 2012 from 2011 +18 +10 –3 On a pro forma basis, attributable profits (excluding movements in the fair value of own debt and before variable pay distributions) are allocated in the proportions shown in the charts below. Pro forma post-tax profits allocation 1 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments and net of scrip issuance. Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of 2012 were US$0.45, an increase of 10% compared with 2011. 2 Total variable pay pool net of tax and portion to be delivered by the award of HSBC shares. Role, membership and activities of the Committee Within the authority delegated by the Board, the Committee is responsible for approving the Group’s remuneration policy. The Committee also determines the remuneration of Directors, senior employees, employees in positions of significant influence and employees whose activities have or could have an impact on our risk profile and, in doing so, takes into account the pay and conditions across the Group. No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. The members of the Committee during 2012 were J L Thornton (Chairman), J D Coombe, W S H Laidlaw and G Morgan (retired as a Director on 25 May 2012). R Fassbind was appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2013. 349 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) There were eight meetings of the Committee during 2012. The table on page 329 gives details of Directors’ attendance at these meetings. The Committee has decided to not use external advisers except in exceptional circumstances. During 2012, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer were engaged to provide legal advice in connection with the clawback process. During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided regular briefings to the Committee and the Committee received advice from the Group Managing Director, Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability, A Almeida, the Group Head of Performance and Reward, T Roberts and the Group Chief Risk Officer, M M Moses, all of whom provided advice as part of their executive role as employees of HSBC. The Committee also received advice and feedback from the Group Risk Committee on risk-related matters relevant to remuneration and the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. J L Thornton Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee 4 March 2013 350 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Summary of remuneration policy The following remuneration policy for Directors is subject to a binding shareholder vote every three years commencing with the 2013 financial year. The section on service contracts and exit payments is also subject to the binding vote and can be found on page 359. Purpose and link to strategy Operation and planned changes to policy Opportunity and performance metrics Fixed pay Takes account of experience and personal contribution to the individual’s role. No fixed pay increases are proposed for executive Directors in 2013. n/a Benefits Takes account of local market practice. Benefits include the provision of medical insurance, other insurance cover, tax return preparation and travel assistance. No changes were made to HSBC’s benefits policy during the year. n/a Annual incentive1 Drives and rewards performance against annual financial andnon-financial measures and adherence to HSBC Values which are consistent with the medium to long-term strategy. Awards are delivered in the form of cash and shares with the structure and deferral meeting the FSA Remuneration Code requirements. The total vesting period of deferred awards will be no less than 3 years as mandated under the FSA Remuneration Code. Where the total vesting period is three years the share awards will be subject to a six month retention period upon vesting. Maximum incentive is three times fixed pay. Performance is measured against an annual scorecard, based on a mixture of financial and non-financial measures. The scorecards vary by individual. Further detail on each scorecard for the most recent awards can be found on page 355. The policy for determining awards is set out on page 352. Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’)1 Incentivises sustainable long-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests. Award levels are determined by considering performance up to the date of grant against enduring performance measures set out in the long-term performance scorecard. The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to claw back all or part of the award. See page 353 for more details on clawback. On vesting, the shares (net of tax) must be retained until the participant retires. Maximum award is six times fixed pay. The long-term scorecard against which performance will be assessed in 2013 is detailed below. The 2013 scorecard remains consistent with 2012. Overall performance is to be judged on performance outcomes and adherence to HSBC Values being a gating mechanism. See page 356 for further details. Pension No pension changes proposed for 2013. n/a Non-executive Director Non-executive Directors receive only fees and are not eligible to receive benefits, pension or any annual or long-term incentives. The current fee, which was approved by shareholders in 2011, is £95,000 per annum. A fee of £45,000 per annum is payable to the senior independent non-executive Director. In addition, non-executive Directors received the following fees for service on Board Committees: • Group Audit, Group Risk, Group Remuneration and Financial System Vulnerabilities Committees: – Chairman: £50,000 – Member: £30,000 • Nomination and Corporate Sustainability Committees: – Chairman: £40,000 – Member: £25,000 n/a 1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, D J Flint, who, from 2011, is not eligible for an annual incentive and is not expected to be granted awards under the GPSP other than in exceptional circumstances. 351 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Long-term Incentive Plan – Group Performance Share Plan 2013 long-term scorecard Measure Long-term target range Weighting Return on equity 12% – 15% 15% Cost efficiency ratio 48% – 52% 15% Capital strength >10% 15% Progressive dividend payoutwithin 40% - 60% range 40% – 60% 15% Strategy Judgement 20% Brand equity Top 3 rating and improve US$bn value 5% Compliance and reputation Judgement 10% People Judgement 5% 100% Material factors taken into account when setting pay policy The Committee takes into account a variety of factors when determining the remuneration policy for Directors. A summary of these factors is provided below. Internal factors Funding HSBC considers pay across the Group when determining remuneration levels for its executive Directors. Eligibility for the GPSP is restricted to executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers. Other employees across the Group are also eligible to participate in annual incentive arrangements. Both the annual incentive and long-term incentive awards are funded from a single annual variable pay pool from which individual awards are considered. The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share plans comply with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines. Prior to 2012, all equity-settled awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares vesting under the HSBC Share Plans were satisfied by the transfer of existing shares held under a trust. To create additional core tier 1 capital and retain funds within HSBC, Restricted Share vestings since 2012 have been satisfied by a mixture of existing shares from the trust and new issue shares. External factors Regulation There is still a wide divergence in how regulations operate globally and this presents significant challenges to HSBC, which operates in 81 countries and territories worldwide. In order to deliver long-term sustainable performance, it is important we have market-competitive remuneration and equivalence of reward across geographical boundaries in order to attract, motivate and retain talented and committed employees around the world. We ensure our remuneration policies are aligned with both new regulatory practices and the interests of shareholders and confirm that HSBC is fully compliant with the Financial Stability Board and the FSA guidance and rules on remuneration. Comparator group The Committee considers market data for executive Directors’ remuneration packages from a defined remuneration comparator group. This group consists of nine global financial services companies, namely Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Standard Chartered and UBS. These companies were selected on the basis of their broadly similar business coverage, size and international scope, and are subject to annual review for continuing relevance. Shareholder context See page 360. Variable pay pool determination The Committee considers many factors in determining the Group’s variable pay pool funding. The variable pay pool takes into account the performance of the Group which is considered within the context of its Risk Appetite Statement. This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is shaped by risk considerations. The Risk Appetite Statement describes and measures the amount and types of risk that HSBC is prepared to take in executing its strategy. It shapes the integrated approach to business, risk and capital management and supports achievement of the Group’s objectives. The Group Chief Risk Officer regularly updates the Committee on the Group’s performance against the Risk Appetite Statement. The Committee uses these updates when considering remuneration to ensure that return, risk and remuneration are aligned. We use a counter-cyclical funding methodology which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling and the payout ratio reduces as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality risk. The floor recognises that franchise protection is typically required irrespective of performance levels. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is possible to limit reward as it is 352 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) not necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance. In addition, our funding methodology considers the relationship between capital, dividends and variable pay to ensure that the distribution of post-tax profits between these three elements is considered appropriate (see page 349 for the 2012 and the 2011 split). It is deemed fundamental to the Group that a majority of post-tax profit should be allocated to capital and to shareholders, particularly when a strong performance is delivered. Finally, the commercial requirement to remain competitive in the market and overall affordability are considered. Clawback In order to reward genuine performance and not failure, individual awards are made on the basis of a risk-adjusted view of both financial and non-financial performance. However, if the assessment of performance subsequently proves to be inaccurate or incorrect, then unvested deferred awards made since 2010 can be clawed back by the Committee. Individual awards Individual awards are based on the achievement of both financial and non-financial objectives. These objectives, which are aligned with the Group’s strategy, are detailed in participants’ annual performance scorecards and the collective long-term performance scorecard of participants in the GPSP. Performance is then measured and reviewed against the objectives on a regular basis. Overall performance under both scorecards is judged on outcomes but, most importantly, adherence to HSBC Values as described on page 347 is a prerequisite before any individual can be considered for any variable pay. In other words, adherence with the values acts as a gating item. These values are key to the running of a sound, sustainable bank. Specifically, our most senior employees had a separate values rating for 2012 which directly influenced their overall performance rating and, accordingly, their variable pay. In addition, the Global Risk and Compliance functions carry out annual reviews for senior executives and risk-takers (defined as HSBC Code Staff). These reviews determine whether there are any instances of non-compliance with Risk and Compliance procedures and expected behaviour. Instances of non-compliance are escalated to senior management for consideration in variable pay decisions, clawback and ongoing employment. Group-wide thematic reviews of risk are also carried out to determine if there are any transgressions which could affect the amount of current year variable pay or any instances where clawback of previously awarded variable pay is required. Risk and Compliance input is a critical part of the assessment process in determining the performance of HSBC Code Staff (which includes the executive Directors) and in ensuring that their individual remuneration has been appropriately assessed with regard to risk. We require a proportion of variable pay awards above certain thresholds to be deferred into awards of HSBC shares. This is to ensure that the Group’s interests and those of its employees are aligned with those of the Group’s shareholders, that the Group’s approach to risk management supports the interests of all stakeholders and that remuneration is consistent with effective risk management. In considering individual awards, a comparison of the pay and employment conditions of our employees, Directors and senior executives is considered by the Committee. 353 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 1 Salary paid in the year for executive Directors, taxable benefits, pension and cash in lieu of pensions. 2 Maximum award level as stated in policy. Includes deferred portion of award. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. 3 Maximum award level as stated in policy. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. The GPSP scorecard has not been designed with a targeted or expected value of performance. For the purposes of the new regulations, 50% of the maximum award is deemed as target. The following Directors have not been included in the disclosure above: D J Flint, who has not been eligible for an annual incentive since 2011 and is not expected to be granted awards under the GPSP other than in exceptional circumstances, and A A Flockhart, who ceased to be an executive Director on 30 April 2012. Non-executive Directors are not eligible to receive incentive awards. Summary of 2012 remuneration outcomes Single figure of remuneration for each executive Director (Unaudited) Base salary Benefits1 Pension3 Annualincentive Long-termincentive 2012 total 2011 total £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Executive Directors D J Flint 1,500 855 – – – 2,355 2,348 A A Flockhart2 325 239 6 – – 570 3,639 S T Gulliver 1,250 1,220 13 1,950 3,000 7,433 8,047 I J Mackay 700 421 – 1,348 1,400 3,869 3,213 1 The emoluments table on page 361 provides further details on the benefits included. 2 Ceased to be an executive Director on 30 April 2012. 3 As disclosed on page 358. • Base salary: salary paid in year for executive Directors. • Benefits: taxable benefits including cash in lieu of pension. • Annual incentive: annual incentive award cash and share payments (including deferred awards) for the 2012 performance year. The outcomes of the performance conditions which determined the award are described in the next section. Forty per cent of the annual incentive in respect of the 2012 performance year is non-deferred. The non-deferred incentive is split between 50% cash and 50% payable in HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares, which are subject to a six-month retention period. 60% of the full annual incentive award is deferred equally between cash and shares and vests 100% after five years subject to the successful completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements and subject to the terms of the Plan. 354 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) • Long-term incentives: long-term incentives include all other awards where final vesting is determined as a result of the achievement of performance conditions that end in the year being reported on. For 2012 this would only include the 2013 GPSP. The GPSP awards to be granted in 2013 in respect of 2012 were assessed against the 2012 long-term scorecard detailed on page 357. The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. On vesting, the net of tax shares must be retained until the participant retires. Variable pay outcomes (Unaudited) S T Gulliver I J Mackay Maximum multiple 2012 multipleawarded 2012 £000 2011 £000 2012 multipleawarded 2012 £000 2011 £000 Salary1 1.00 1.00 1,250 1,250 1.00 700 700 Annual incentive2 3.00 1.56 1,950 2,156 1.92 1,348 1,086 GPSP awards3 6.00 2.40 3,000 3,750 2.00 1,400 700 Total 6,200 7,156 3,448 2,486 1 As disclosed in the Directors’ emoluments table on page 361. 2 50% of the annual incentive is delivered in cash with the remaining 50% in shares. 60% of the annual incentive for 2012 is deferred for five years. 100% vests on the fifth anniversary of grant subject to the successful completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements. During the vesting period the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. 3 As disclosed in the 2012 long-term scorecard and performance outcome on page 357. The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. On vesting, the net of tax shares must be retained until the participant retires. Annual incentive Maximum facevalue of award Performanceoutcome Awardsmade Director S T Gulliver 300% 52% 156% I J Mackay 300% 64% 192% Determining executive Directors’ performance S T Gulliver The annual incentive award made to S T Gulliver in respect of 2012 reflected the Committee’s assessment of the extent to which he had achieved the personal and corporate objectives set for him within his performance scorecard as agreed by the Board at the beginning of the year. This measurement took into account his performance against both the financial and non-financial measures which had been set to reflect the risk appetite and strategic priorities determined by the Board to be appropriate for 2012. In order for any award of annual incentive to be made under the above performance scorecard, the Committee firstly had to satisfy itself that S T Gulliver had personally met and shown leadership in promoting HSBC Values. This over-riding test assessed behaviour around the HSBC Values principles of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Independent feedback was taken from direct reports and others lower in the organisation as well as from the Group Chairman. Taking this into account as well as its own experience and observation, including noting how S T Gulliver had dealt with situations where HSBC Values had not been met, the Committee concluded that S T Gulliver had exhibited strong leadership and personal behaviour in this area and so met the required standard. In aggregate, in assessing the calibration of S T Gulliver’s 2012 annual incentive against his theoretical maximum opportunity of three times base salary, an overall score of 52% (2011: 57.5%) of that maximum opportunity was judged to have been achieved. The achievement of the financial element of the scorecard was scored marginally higher than the non-financial measures. A summary of the assessment and rationale for the conclusions is set out below. Unless otherwise indicated, the figures in parentheses denote the opportunity within the scorecard. 355 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Financial (60% weighting – achieved 32%) The Committee continued to judge Capital Strength (10%) and Dividend Payout (10%) as critically important reflections of financial performance as they encapsulate a number of key factors of importance to shareholders. In essence these elements demonstrate a combination of profit generation, control of capital usage, cash availability at the holding company and regulatory satisfaction with the preceding factors sufficient to support HSBC’s progressive dividend policy. In essence, these elements are important indicators of the sustainability of shareholder reward. Reflecting a higher dividend in 2012 and a stronger core tier 1 capital ratio, the Committee awarded full weighting of these elements of the scorecard. An opportunity of 15% was available in respect of delivering pre-tax profit improvement (on the underlying basis described on page 348 used to assess management performance) and this was judged to have been substantially met with the Committee awarding 80% of the available opportunity (12% award). Driving this assessment were the strong performances across the faster-growing markets, particularly in Hong Kong, the turnaround in GB&M’s performance in Europe, the delivery of above-target sustainable cost savings and lower loan impairment charges driven by marked improvement in the US. Return on Equity (15%) did not meet the benchmark return. The Cost Efficiency Ratio (10%) also fell outside the required measure, in large part attributable to the significant regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties incurred in the US and customer redress costs suffered in the UK. Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 20%) 25% of the available opportunity in this area related to Strategy Execution and 80% was judged to have been achieved (20% awarded). This strong performance reflected a combination of growing capital deployment into targeted areas of opportunity, particularly into faster-growing markets, strategic cost efficiency initiatives successfully deployed, evidence of further benefits from global business integration, progress on building wealth management revenues and personal commitment to developing client relationships. The final opportunity under non-financial measures (15%) related to Risk and Compliance and, in light of the US regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties and further customer redress in the UK, no award was made under this element. The same deliberations and assessments with regard to performance and adherence to HSBC Values were undertaken by the Committee with regard to the performance of I J Mackay. This is summarised below. I J Mackay The performance scorecard for I J Mackay was weighted 30% financial, 70% non-financial. In aggregate, in assessing the quantum of the 2012 annual incentive against the theoretical maximum opportunity of three times base salary, an overall score of 64% of that maximum opportunity was judged to have been achieved. The Committee considered that performance against the financial targets of Cost Disciplines and Capital and Liquidity Management had been met or were in progress. The Committee considered that performance against the non-financial targets including People, Reporting and Planning, Maintaining a Strong Control Environment and Regulatory Change had been met or were in progress. With regard to Compliance and Reputation, in light of the US regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties and further customer redress in the UK, no award was made under this element of the scorecard. Awards under the GPSP Awards to be granted in 2013 in respect of 2012 were assessed against the 2012 long-term scorecard published in the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 and reproduced below. The performance assessment under the 2012 long-term scorecard took into account achievements under both financial and non-financial objectives, both of which were set within the context of the risk appetite and strategic direction agreed by the Board. Notwithstanding the detail or extent of performance delivery against the objectives, an individual’s eligibility for a GPSP award requires confirmation of adherence to HSBC Values which acts in effect as a gating mechanism to GPSP participation. Within the GPSP, the weighting between financial and non-financial measures in respect of 2012 was set at 60% and 40%, respectively. In aggregate in respect of the objectives set for 2012, and in light of the significance of the legal and regulatory fines and penalties incurred in 2012, an overall performance outcome of 40% (2011:50%) of the scorecard was judged to have been achieved; this outcome applies to all eligible participants in the 356 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) GPSP. A summary of the assessment and rationale for the conclusions is set out below. Figures in parentheses reflect the available opportunity under the GPSP. Measure Long-term target range Weighting Actual 2012performance Outcome Return on equity 12% – 15% 15% 8.4%¹ 0% Cost efficiency ratio 48% – 52% 15% 62.8%¹ 0% Capital strength > 10% 15% 12.3%¹ 15.0% Dividends (payout ratio) 40% – 60% 15% 55.4%¹ 15.0% Strategy Judgement 20% Judgement 15.0% Brand equity Top 3 rating and improve US$bn value 5% Top 3 rating but drop in value² 0% Compliance and reputation Judgement 10% Not met 0% People and values Judgement 5% Judgement 3.75% Performance outcome 100% 48.75% Committee discretion 40.00% 1 As reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. 2 Based on results from The Brand Finance® Banking 500 2013 survey. The performance outcome of 40% was then applied to maximum face values (expressed as a percentage of salary) for each participant. The awards to be made in respect of 2012 are detailed below. Maximum facevalue of award Performanceoutcome Awardsmade Director S T Gulliver 600% 40% 240% I J Mackay 500% 40% 200% Financial (60% weighting – achieved 30%) The opportunity of 60% was equally split in 2012 between Capital Strength, Dividend Progression, Return on Equity and Cost Efficiency ratio. While the annual assessment looked at point in time achievement of the same performance elements, under the long-term plan consideration was given to progress made towards stated targets where these had not been met in the short term and to the sustainability of positive short-term performance. With regard to Capital Strength, the Committee considered favourably the steps taken to meet the Basel III targets in the accelerated timetable being required by the Group’s lead regulator. In addition to achieved and planned operating profit generation, the Committee noted favourably the extensive capital generated from business disposals, both from gains realised on sale and from release of risk-weighted assets. Further support for a positive view of performance accrued from actions noted as having been taken to reduce the capital drag from legacy assets and exit portfolios and from steps being taken to mitigate the impact of the more onerous capital requirements arising from regulatory changes yet to take effect. Having reviewed these factors the Committee awarded the full opportunity (15%). On Dividend Progression, the Committee noted favourably the capacity to maintain a progressive policy, subject to performance, reflected in the Group’s capital position, its distributable reserves, its cash position and its planning assumptions. The Committee also noted external commentary on dividend paying capacity and regulatory interactions around the Group’s capital position. Having considered these factors the Committee awarded the full opportunity (15%). As noted in the assessment of the annual performance awards, the Group has not yet reached its target Return on Equity of 12-15%. The Committee deliberated on the benefits arising from the considerable restructuring and reshaping of the business which has been undertaken under the Group’s Six Filters framework, the delivery of sustainable cost savings ahead of target, the growth being achieved from investment in faster-growing markets and the progress made in run-off of the exit portfolios and in reducing legacy underperforming assets. The Committee also reflected on the additional costs that would be incurred and revenues foregone from the programme of strengthening controls and compliance which is underway and from applying global standards in all markets. There was also note made of the continuing uncertainties from an incomplete regulatory reform agenda, from contingent legal risks and from the continuing significant customer redress costs from legacy activities being borne. As a consequence, the Committee felt unable to make any award under this opportunity (15%). 357 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Similarly, under the Cost Efficiency Ratio (‘CER’) element of the scorecard, despite good progress on sustainable cost savings, the CER remains well above the target range of 48-52%. The Committee noted that a major element of the underperformance relates to legal and regulatory fines and penalties and customer redress costs which it cannot view as non-recurring. As a consequence the Committee judged that no award could be made under this opportunity (15%). Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 18.75%) Half the opportunity in this section related to the execution of strategic priorities laid down by the Board (20%). In assessing performance the Committee noted but looked beyond the short-term deliverables of targeted disposals and investments to review the frameworks being established to improve capital deployment, establish and enforce Global Standards, improve cost efficiency while maintaining strong operational and risk controls and enhance global business co-operation and integration. The Committee concluded that it would be an appropriate reflection of management achievement to award 75% of the available opportunity, namely 15%. A separate but connected appraisal was made of the human aspect of long-term strategy delivery where the Committee looked at recruitment of key personnel to fill critical roles, succession planning, values training and enforcement and the retention, motivation and collegiality of the senior management team in what had been a stressed environment. Once again the Committee awarded 75% of the available opportunity of 5%, adding 3.75% to the scorecard. With regard to Compliance and Reputation (10%), given the legal and regulatory fines and penalties incurred in 2012 and the continuation of significant further customer redress costs in the UK, the Committee concluded no award could be contemplated. This conclusion was followed through when assessing Brand Equity (5%), which technically scored 50% of the available opportunity as HSBC maintained a top three ranking in its peer group. The Committee used its discretion to reduce this award to nil in light of the reputational damage incurred from the US legal and regulatory fines and penalties. This performance assessment resulted in an overall score of 48.75%. Notwithstanding this, taking into account the significance of the legal and regulatory fines and penalties incurred in 2012, the Committee determined that the initial performance outcome should be reduced further to give a final performance outcome for 2012 of 40%. Contributions and allowances in lieu of pension entitlements D J Flint received an allowance of 50% of annual basic salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements. The allowance for 2012 amounted to £750,000. A A Flockhart retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012 and until that date received employer contributions of 1.8% of basic salary into a pension plan and an allowance of 48.2% of basic salary. The employer contributions and the allowance for 1 January 2012 to 30 April 2012 amounted to £162,500. S T Gulliver received employer contributions of 4% of basic salary into a personal pension plan and an allowance of 46% of basic salary from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012. From 1 April 2012, S T Gulliver received an allowance of 50% of basic salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements. The employer contributions and the allowance for the whole of 2012 amounted to £625,000. I J Mackay received an allowance of 50% of annual basic salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements. The allowance for 2012 amounted to £350,000. TSR Chart HSBC TSR and FTSE100 index Pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the graph below shows the TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index for the five-year period ended 31 December 2012. The FTSE 100 index has been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. Source: International Data Corporation 358 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Service contracts and exit payments Our policy is to employ executive Directors on one year rolling contracts although longer initial terms may be approved by the Committee if considered appropriate. The Committee will, consistent with the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise termination payments. Director Contract date (rolling) Notice period (Director & HSBC) Compensation on termination by the company without notice or cause D J Flint 14 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements and other benefits. A A Flockhart¹ 14 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a variable pay award upon termination of employment other than where the executive has resigned or the Company has terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual right to do so. S T Gulliver2 10 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a variable pay award upon termination of employment other than where the executive has resigned or the Company has terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual right to do so. I J Mackay 4 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered for a variable pay award upon termination of employment other than where the executive has resigned or the Company has terminated the executive’s employment with the contractual right to do so. 1 Service contract terminated on 30 April 2012 – the date of retirement as an executive Director. 2 The other benefits as part of the payment in lieu of notice do not include the accommodation and car provided in Hong Kong. Exit payments made in year A A Flockhart retired for health reasons as an executive of the Group and from his position as Chairman of Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Commercial Banking on 30 April 2012. A A Flockhart remained on the Board up to 31 July 2012 in a non-executive Director capacity. Upon retirement on 30 April 2012, A A Flockhart received no compensation for loss of office other than contractual retirement benefits and was granted good leaver status on his unvested deferred cash and share awards as per the HSBC Share Plan rules. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the awards will vest in line with the vesting schedule at time of grant. Share ownership guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with our shareholders, we operate a formal share ownership policy, expressed as a number of shares, for executive Directors and Group Managing Directors. The Committee considers that material share ownership by executives creates a community of interest between senior management and shareholders. Under the existing guidelines, the shareholding is expected to be achieved within five years of the executive’s appointment. All executive Directors exceed the expected holdings. Shareholding requirements for the Group executive Directors and Group Managing Directors are set out below. The Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 2012 are also set out below. There are no shareholding requirements for non-executive Directors. 359 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) At 31 December 2012 (or date of retirement) Shares awarded subject to deferral Shareholdingrequirement(number) Shares legally owned1 without performance conditions2 with performanceconditions Total shareholding3 (number) Estimatedvalue£000 Executive Directors D J Flint 400,000 313,326 211,269 – 524,595 3,394 A A Flockhart4 200,000 978,077 4 568,973 4 – 1,547,050 4 10,008 5 S T Gulliver 600,000 2,730,477 2,448,515 – 5,178,992 33,503 I J Mackay 200,000 118,813 417,392 – 536,205 3,469 Group Managing Directors6 125,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Non-executive Directors J D Coombe n/a 22,387 n/a n/a 22,387 145 R A Fairhead n/a 21,300 n/a n/a 21,300 138 W S H Laidlaw n/a 32,252 n/a n/a 32,252 209 J P Lipsky n/a 15,000 7 n/a n/a 15,000 7 97 8 G Morgan n/a 84,347 9 n/a n/a 84,347 9 546 10 Sir Simon Robertson n/a 9,486 n/a n/a 9,486 61 J L Thornton n/a 10,250 11 n/a n/a 10,250 11 66 8 Sir Brian Williamson n/a 40,164 9 n/a n/a 40,164 9 260 10 1 Includes interests held as beneficial owner and interests held by connected persons and excludes interests held non-beneficially as trustee. 2 Includes GPSP awards which are made following an assessment of performance over the prior year but are then awarded subject to a five-year vesting period. 3 For the purposes of our shareholding guidelines, unvested awards of Restricted Shares and GPSP awards are included. 4 Interests at 31 July 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 5 Estimated value at 31 July 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 6 All of the Group Managing Directors except one (who was appointed a Group Managing Director during 2012 and is therefore within the five years permitted to achieve the expected holding) exceed the expected holdings. 7 Interest in 3,000 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 8 The ADS closing price on 31 December 2012 on the New York Stock Exchange was US$53.07. 9 Interests at 25 May 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 10 Estimated value at 25 May 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 11 Interest of spouse in 2,050 listed ADS. The Committee monitors compliance with the share ownership guidelines annually. The Committee has full discretion in determining any penalties in cases of non-compliance, which could include a reduction of future awards of GPSP and/or an increase in the proportion of the annual variable pay that is deferred into shares. Shareholder context During the year the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with institutional shareholders to collect their views on current and developing remuneration practices. The Group considers these meetings vital to ensure that our reward strategy continues to be aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders. The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the May 2012 Annual General Meeting. Number ofvotes cast For Against Withheld Advisory vote on 2011 remuneration report 8,467,146,094 7,603,837,582 863,308,512 342,947,482 (89.80%) (10.20%) 360 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report Additional disclosures This appendix provides disclosures required under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, and by the FSA. The following table shows the 2012 total remuneration of the Group Chairman and executive Directors of HSBC Holdings with annual incentives disclosed on a 2012 performance year basis, pursuant to the UK Listing Rules. Explanations of the constituent parts of the incentives calculated pursuant to the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Rules are given in footnotes 4 and 5, respectively. Directors’ remuneration D J Flint A A Flockhart1 S T Gulliver I J Mackay 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Salary, allowances and benefits in kind 2,355 2,348 564 1,578 2,470 2,043 1,121 1,427 Annual incentive2 – – – 1,926 1,950 2,156 1,348 1,086 Total remuneration 2,355 2,348 564 3,504 4,420 4,199 2,469 2,513 US$000 Total remuneration 3,732 3 3,763 894 5,616 7,004 6,729 3,913 4,027 Emoluments table The following table shows the 2012 emoluments of the Group Chairman and executive Directors of HSBC Holdings, with annual incentives disclosed on an actual paid basis, pursuant to section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008: Directors’ emoluments D J Flint A A Flockhart1 S T Gulliver I J Mackay 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Salary 1,500 1,500 325 975 1,250 1,250 700 700 Allowances4 750 750 207 366 613 527 350 364 Benefits in kind5 105 98 32 237 607 266 71 363 Prior years deferred annual incentive now released6 1,364 1,054 218 857 5,648 3,697 275 12 Current year non-deferred annual incentive7 – – – 770 780 862 539 434 Total emoluments 3,719 3,402 782 3,205 8,898 6,602 1,935 1,873 US$000 Total emoluments 5,893 5,452 1,239 5,136 14,100 10,581 3,066 3,002 1 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. 2 The annual incentive for 2012 comprises the deferred and non-deferred annual incentives. 3 The reduction in Total Remuneration in US$ between 2012 and 2011 is due to foreign exchange movements. 4 Allowances include an executive allowance paid to fund personal pension arrangements. 5 Benefits in kind include provision of medical insurance, other insurance cover, tax return preparation and travel assistance. S T Gulliver is also provided with HSBC-owned accommodation whilst in Hong Kong. In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the taxable rental value of the property is shown for the whole period notwithstanding that it is only occupied when S T Gulliver is in Hong Kong. 6 Where applicable, comprise, subject to the rules of the respective share plans: (i) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares will vest on 12 March 2013 arising from the 2011 annual incentive awarded in March 2012 that was partly deferred into awards of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares; (ii) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares that will vest on 4 March 2013 arising from the 2010 annual incentive awarded in March 2011 that was partly deferred into awards of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares; (iii) the estimated monetary value of the remainder of the award of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares that will vest on 5 March 2013 arising from the 2009 annual incentive awarded in March 2010 that was fully deferred into awards of HSBC Restricted Shares; and (iv) 33% of the deferred cash award that will vest on 15 March 2013 arising from the 2010 annual incentive awarded in March 2011. 7 Comprises 40% of the annual incentive in respect of the 2012 performance year that is non-deferred. The non-deferred incentive is payable in HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares, 50% of which are subject to a six month retention period. 361 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Non-executive Directors’ fees Non-executive Directors’ fees are regularly reviewed and compared with other large international companies of comparable complexity. The current fee, which was approved by shareholders in 2011, is £95,000 per annum. A fee of £45,000 per annum is payable to the senior independent non-executive Director. In addition, non-executive Directors received the following fees for service on Board Committees: Board Committee annual fees Chairman Member Number of meetings held during £000 £000 2012 Group Audit Committee 50 30 5 Group Risk Committee 50 30 7 Group Remuneration Committee 50 30 8 Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee1 50 30 – Nomination Committee 40 25 4 Corporate Sustainability Committee 40 25 4 1 Established on 18 January 2013. Fees paid to non-executive Directors 2012 2011 £000 £000 S A Catz 95 95 L M L Cha1 548 465 M K T Cheung2 166 165 J D Coombe 205 205 J Faber3 104 – R A Fairhead 200 200 A A Flockhart4 70 – J W J Hughes-Hallett 138 150 W S H Laidlaw 125 125 J P Lipsky3 119 – J R Lomax 155 155 G Morgan5 50 125 N R N Murthy6 135 135 Sir Simon Robertson 180 166 J L Thornton7 1,092 1,081 Sir Brian Williamson5 48 120 Total8 3,430 3,187 Total (US$000)8 5,435 5,108 1 Includes fees as non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and a member of its nomination committee. 2 Includes fees as non-executive Director and member of the audit committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited. 3 Appointed on 1 March 2012. 4 A non-executive Director from 1 May to 31 July 2012. Includes fees as a non-executive Director and Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and a non-executive Director of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited from 1 May to 31 July 2012. 5 Retired on 25 May 2012. 6 Retired on 31 December 2012. 7 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 8 Total fees for 2011 and 2012 include the fees of non-executive Directors who retired in that year. Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years, subject to their re-election by shareholders at Annual General Meetings. Non-executive Directors have no service contract and are not eligible to participate in our share plans. Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment will expire as follows: • in 2013, R A Fairhead; • in 2014, S A Catz, L M L Cha, J D Coombe, J W J Hughes-Hallett and W S H Laidlaw; and • in 2015, M K T Cheung, J Faber, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, Sir Simon Robertson and J L Thornton. 362 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Subject to their re-election by shareholders, the terms of appointment of R Fassbind and J B Comey will expire in 2016. Other directorships Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept appointments as non-executive directors of suitable companies which are not part of HSBC. Approval will not be given for an executive Director to accept a non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company. When considering a non-executive appointment, the Nomination Committee or Board will take into account the expected time commitment of such appointment. The time commitment for executive Directors’ external appointments will be reviewed as part of the annual Board review. Any remuneration receivable in respect of an external appointment is normally paid to HSBC, unless otherwise approved by the Nomination Committee. Share Plans At 31 December 2012, the undernamed Directors held options and awards of Restricted Shares under the HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 (including conditional awards of shares under the GPSP) to acquire the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares set against their respective names. HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Dates of Exercise Exercisable At 1 Jan At 31 Dec 2012(or date of award price (£) from1 until 2012 retirement) D J Flint 25 Apr 2007 6.1760 1 Aug 2012 31 Jan 2013 2,650 2,650 D J Flint 24 Apr 2012 4.4621 1 Aug 2015 31 Jan 2016 – 2,016 A A Flockhart 29 Apr 2009 3.3116 1 Aug 2014 31 Jan 2015 4,529 – 2 US$ I J Mackay 30 Apr 2008 11.8824 1 Aug 2011 31 Jan 2012 1,531 – 3 The HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are all-employee share plans under which eligible employees may be granted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Employees may make contributions of up to £250 (or equivalent) each month over a period of one, three or five years which may be used on the first, third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the relevant savings contract, at the employee’s election, to exercise the options. The plans help align the interests of employees with the creation of shareholder value. The options were awarded for nil consideration and are exercisable at a 20% discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date. There are no performance criteria conditional upon which the outstanding options are exercisable and there have been no variations to the terms and conditions since the awards were made. The market value per ordinary share at 31 December 2012 was £6.47. The highest and lowest market values per ordinary share during the year were £6.55 and £4.91. Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised as unlisted physically settled equity derivatives. 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. retirement. 2 Options lapsed on 31 October 2012 following the end of the six month period following retirement within which employees may exercise options under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans. A A Flockhart retired as an employee on 30 April 2012. 3 Option lapsed on 31 January 2012 following the end of the exercise period. 363 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Awards of Restricted Shares HSBC Share Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Year in which Awardsheld at Awards made during year Awards vested during year Awardsheld at 31 Dec 2012 Date ofaward awards may vest 1 Jan 2012 Number Monetary value Number Monetary value (or date of retirement)1 £000 £000 D J Flint 1 Mar 2010 2011-2013 2 220,201 – – 111,340 3 617 116,700 15 Mar 2011 2012-2014 2 133,280 – – 44,516 4 256 94,569 A A Flockhart5 2 Mar 2009 2012 535,162 – – 541,651 6 3,028 – 1 Mar 2010 2011-2013 2 212,927 – – 107,662 3 596 110,704 15 Mar 2011 2012-2014 2 86,062 – – 28,745 4 165 59,906 S T Gulliver 1 Mar 2010 2011-2013 2 943,723 – – 477,174 3 2,644 500,148 15 Mar 2011 2012-2014 2 825,072 – – 275,575 4 1,585 585,436 I J Mackay 2 Mar 2009 2012 104,244 – – 105,508 6 590 – 1 Mar 2010 2011-2013 2 41,263 – – 20,864 3 116 21,868 15 Mar 2011 2012-2014 2 35,954 – – 12,008 4 69 25,513 Vesting of Restricted Share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The vesting date may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. death. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in Restricted Share awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 2 33% of the award vests on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award. In the case of the awards granted on 15 March 2011 the shares (net of tax) are subject to a six month retention period following each vesting date. 3 At the date of vesting, 27 February 2012, the market value per share was £5.54. The market value per share on the date of the award, 1 March 2010, was £6.82. 4 At the date of vesting, 15 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.75. The market value per share on the date of the award, 15 March 2011, was £6.46. 5 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends subject to the terms of the Plan. 6 At the date of vesting, 5 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.59. The market value per share on the date of the award, 2 March 2009, was £3.99. Awards of Restricted Shares HSBC Share Plan 2011 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Year in which Awardsheld at Awards made during year Awards vested during year Awardsheld at 31 Dec 2012 Date ofaward awards may vest 1 Jan 2012 Number Monetary value Number Monetary value (or date of retirement)1 £000 £000 A A Flockhart2 28 Feb 2012 3 2012 – 68,941 385 68,941 385 – 12 Mar 2012 4 2013-2015 – 207,546 1,154 – – 213,044 12 Mar 2012 5 2012 – 69,182 385 69,182 385 – S T Gulliver 28 Feb 2012 3 2012 – 77,167 431 77,167 431 – 12 Mar 2012 4 2013-2015 – 232,312 1,292 – – 243,078 12 Mar 2012 5 2012 – 77,437 431 77,437 431 – I J Mackay 28 Feb 2012 3 2012 – 38,854 217 38,854 217 – 12 Mar 2012 4 2013-2015 – 116,968 650 – – 122,390 12 Mar 2012 5 2012 – 38,989 217 38,989 217 – Vesting of Restricted Share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The vesting date may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example, death. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in Restricted Share awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 364 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 2 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends subject to the terms of the plan. 3 The non-deferred award vested immediately on 28 February 2012. At the date of vesting the market value per share was £5.59. 4 At the date of the award, 12 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.56. 50% of these deferred awards are subject to a six month retention period upon vesting. 33% of the awards vest on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the awards, with the balance vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award. 5 The non-deferred award vested immediately on 12 March 2012 and the shares (net of tax) were subject to a six month retention period. At the date of vesting, the market value per share was £5.56. Conditional Awards under the GPSP HSBC Share Plan 2011 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Year in which Awards held at Awards made during year1 Awards held at 31 Dec 2012 Date ofaward awards may vest 1 Jan 2012 Number Monetary value (or date of retirement)2 £000 A A Flockhart3 23 Jun 2011 2016 178,373 – – 185,319 S T Gulliver 23 Jun 2011 2016 392,119 – – 415,270 12 Mar 2012 2017 – 673,370 3,744 704,583 I J Mackay 23 Jun 2011 2016 109,626 – – 116,099 12 Mar 2012 2017 – 125,695 699 131,522 The GPSP is the long-term incentive plan under the HSBC Share Plan 2011. Vesting of GPSP awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. Any shares (net of tax) which the Director becomes entitled to on the vesting date are subject to a retention requirement until cessation of employment. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 1 At the date of award, 12 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.56. 2 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 3 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends. Pensions Defined Benefit Pension arrangements Accrued annualpension at 31 December2012 Increase inaccruedpensionduring2012 Increase inaccruedpensionduring 2012,excludingany increase for inflation Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 20111 Transfer value of accruedpension at31 December 20121 Increase oftransfer valueof accruedpension (lesspersonalcontributions) in 20121 Transfer value(less personalcontributions) at31 December 2012relating to increasein accrued pensionduring 2012,excluding any increase for inflation1 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 A A Flockhart2 339 32 15 5,638 6,105 467 251 1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBC’s pension fund (the International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’)) and not a sum paid or due to the individual; it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration. 2 A A Flockhart ceased accrual of pension in the ISRBS on 30 November 2008 and he has deferred commencement of his pension. The ISRBS retains a liability for a contingent spouse’s pension of £140,000 per annum as at 31 December 2012. Although A A Flockhart retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012, this does not affect his benefits within the ISRBS. The following table shows unfunded pension payments, in respect of which provision has been made, during 2012 to six former Directors of HSBC Holdings. The payments in respect of R Delbridge and Sir Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as former directors of that bank. The payment in respect of C F W de Croisset was made by HSBC France as a former director of that bank. 365 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) Unfunded pension payments (Audited) 2012 £ 2011 £ B H Asher 111,763 106,441 C F W de Croisset 239,423 250,910 R Delbridge 160,754 153,099 Lord Green 42,174 40,946 Sir Brian Pearse 67,036 63,844 Sir William Purves 118,313 112,679 739,463 727,919 Employee compensation and benefits Set out below are details of emoluments paid to senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) for the year ended 31 December 2012 or for the period of appointment as a Director or Group Managing Director. Emoluments of senior management Senior management £000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 15,461 Pension contributions 315 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 33,066 Inducements to join paid or receivable – Compensation for loss of office 715 Total 49,557 Total (US$000) 78,531 The aggregate emoluments of senior management for the year ended 31 December 2012 was US$78,531,390. The emoluments of senior management were within the following bands: Number senior management £0 – £1,000,000 3 £1,000,001 – £2,000,000 1 £2,000,001 – £3,000,000 5 £3,000,001 – £4,000,000 4 £4,000,001 – £5,000,000 1 £7,000,001 – £8,000,000 2 The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for executive Directors and senior management for the year ended 31 December 2012 was US$499,285. Set out below are details of remuneration paid to the five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in HSBC (including two executive Directors and two Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings), for the year ended 31 December 2012. Emoluments of the five highest paid employees 5 highest paid employees £000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 6,112 Pension contributions 155 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 21,513 Inducements to join paid or receivable – Compensation for loss of office – Total 27,780 Total (US$000) 44,022 366 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) The emoluments of the five highest paid employees were within the following bands: Number of 5 highest paid employees £3,800,001 – £3,900,000 1 £4,600,001 – £4,700,000 1 £4,800,001 – £4,900,000 1 £7,000,001 – £7,100,000 1 £7,400,001 – £7,500,000 1 Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives (members of the GMB, but not Directors of HSBC Holdings) Employee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Fixed Cash based 650 632 650 650 650 650 851 488 Total fixed 650 632 650 650 650 650 851 488 Annual incentive1 Cash 955 331 262 340 277 272 227 180 Non-deferred shares2 955 331 262 340 277 272 227 180 Deferred cash3 1,433 496 393 510 415 407 341 270 Deferred shares3 1,433 496 393 510 415 407 341 270 Total annual incentive 4,776 1,654 1,310 1,700 1,384 1,358 1,136 900 Long-term incentive plan (GPSP) Deferred shares 1,560 1,517 1,560 1,040 780 780 681 976 Total variable pay 6,336 3,171 2,870 2,740 2,164 2,138 1,817 1,876 Total remuneration 6,986 3,803 3,520 3,390 2,814 2,788 2,668 2,364 US$000 Total remuneration 11,070 6,026 5,578 5,372 4,459 4,418 4,228 3,746 1 Annual incentive in respect of performance year 2012. 2 Awards vested, subject to a six month retention period. 3 Awards vest 100% after five years subject to the successful completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements and subject to the terms of the Plan. 367 Table of Contents This page is intentionally left blank. 368 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiary undertakings (together HSBC) on pages 372 to 515 which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as of 31 December 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated income statements, consolidated statements of cash flows, consolidated statements of comprehensive income and consolidated statements of changes in equity, for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2012, including the disclosures marked ‘audited’ within the critical accounting policies on pages 54 to 57, the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ section on pages 123 to 280 and the ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ section on page 281 to 300. We have also audited HSBC’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012, based on the framework for Directors’ internal control evaluation contained within Internal control: Revised guidance for directors on the Combined Code (Turnbull Guidance), and the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (‘COSO’). HSBC’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying ‘Management’s Assessment of Internal Controls’. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on assessed risk. Our audits also included performing other such procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of HSBC as of 31 December 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2012, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Also, in our opinion, HSBC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012, based on the framework for Directors’ internal control evaluation contained within Internal control: Revised guidance for directors on the Combined Code (Turnbull Guidance), and the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (‘COSO’). KPMG Audit Plc London, England 4 March 2013 369 Table of Contents This page is intentionally left blank 370 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements Financial Statements and Notes on the Financial Statements Page Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 372 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 373 Consolidated balance sheet 374 Consolidated statement of cash flows 375 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 376 HSBC Holdings balance sheet 379 HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 380 HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity 381 Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation 383 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 387 3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 406 4 Net earned insurance premiums 407 5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders 407 6 Operating profit 408 7 Employee compensation and benefits 409 8 Auditors’ remuneration 419 9 Tax 421 10 Dividends 425 11 Earnings per share 426 12 Segmental analysis 426 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis 432 14 Trading assets 436 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 437 16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 447 17 Reclassification of financial assets 450 Page 18 Financial assets designated at fair value 451 19 Derivatives 452 20 Financial investments 456 21 Transfers of financial assets 458 22 Interests in associates and joint ventures 460 23 Goodwill and intangible assets 463 24 Property, plant and equipment 467 25 Investments in subsidiaries 469 26 Assets held for sale and other assets 471 27 Trading liabilities 473 28 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 473 29 Debt securities in issue 474 30 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities 475 31 Liabilities under insurance contracts 475 32 Provisions 478 33 Subordinated liabilities 480 34 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 485 35 Foreign exchange exposures 493 36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets 493 37 Non-controlling interests 494 38 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 495 39 Notes on the statement of cash flows 498 40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 500 41 Lease commitments 501 42 Special purpose entities 502 43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 506 44 Related party transactions 512 45 Events after the balance sheet date 515 46 Non-statutory accounts 515 371 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Interest income 56,702 63,005 58,345 Interest expense (19,030 ) (22,343 ) (18,904 ) Net interest income 37,672 40,662 39,441 Fee income 20,149 21,497 21,117 Fee expense (3,719 ) (4,337 ) (3,762 ) Net fee income 16,430 17,160 17,355 Trading income excluding net interest income 4,408 3,283 4,680 Net interest income on trading activities 2,683 3,223 2,530 Net trading income 7,091 6,506 7,210 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives (4,327 ) 4,161 (258 ) Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 2,101 (722 ) 1,478 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 3 (2,226 ) 3,439 1,220 Gains less losses from financial investments 1,189 907 968 Dividend income 221 149 112 Net earned insurance premiums 4 13,044 12,872 11,146 Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited 26 7,024 – – Other operating income 2,100 1,766 2,562 Total operating income 82,545 83,461 80,014 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders 5 (14,215 ) (11,181 ) (11,767 ) Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 68,330 72,280 68,247 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 6 (8,311 ) (12,127 ) (14,039 ) Net operating income 60,019 60,153 54,208 Employee compensation and benefits 7 (20,491 ) (21,166 ) (19,836 ) General and administrative expenses (19,983 ) (17,459 ) (15,156 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 24 (1,484 ) (1,570 ) (1,713 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 23 (969 ) (1,350 ) (983 ) Total operating expenses (42,927 ) (41,545 ) (37,688 ) Operating profit 6 17,092 18,608 16,520 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 22 3,557 3,264 2,517 Profit before tax 20,649 21,872 19,037 Tax expense 9 (5,315 ) (3,928 ) (4,846 ) Profit for the year 15,334 17,944 14,191 Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 14,027 16,797 13,159 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,307 1,147 1,032 US$ US$ US$ Basic earnings per ordinary share 11 0.74 0.92 0.73 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 11 0.74 0.91 0.72 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. 372 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Profit for the year 15,334 17,944 14,191 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Available-for-sale investments 5,070 674 5,835 – fair value gains2 6,396 1,279 6,368 – fair value gains transferred to the income statement on disposal (1,872 ) (820 ) (1,174 ) – amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of impairment losses 1,002 583 1,118 – income taxes (456 ) (368 ) (477 ) Cash flow hedges 109 187 (271 ) – fair value gains/(losses) 552 (581 ) (178 ) – fair value (gains)/losses transferred to the income statement (423 ) 788 (164 ) – income taxes (20 ) (20 ) 71 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (195 ) 1,009 (61 ) – before income taxes (391 ) 1,267 (60 ) – income taxes 196 (258 ) (1 ) Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 533 (710 ) 107 – share for the year 311 (710 ) 107 – reclassified to income statement on disposal 222 – – Exchange differences 1,017 (2,865 ) (567 ) – foreign exchange gains reclassified to income statement on disposal of a foreign operation (1,128 ) – – – other exchange difference 2,145 (2,865 ) (567 ) Income tax attributable to exchange differences – 165 – Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 6,534 (1,540 ) 5,043 Total comprehensive income for the year 21,868 16,404 19,234 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: – shareholders of the parent company 20,455 15,366 18,087 – non-controlling interests 1,413 1,038 1,147 21,868 16,404 19,234 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. 373 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2012 Notes 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 141,532 129,902 Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,303 8,208 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 22,743 20,922 Trading assets 14 408,811 330,451 Financial assets designated at fair value 18 33,582 30,856 Derivatives 19 357,450 346,379 Loans and advances to banks 152,546 180,987 Loans and advances to customers 997,623 940,429 Financial investments 20 421,101 400,044 Assets held for sale 26 19,269 39,558 Other assets 26 54,716 48,699 Current tax assets 515 1,061 Prepayments and accrued income 9,502 10,059 Interests in associates and joint ventures 22 17,834 20,399 Goodwill and intangible assets 23 29,853 29,034 Property, plant and equipment 24 10,588 10,865 Deferred tax assets 9 7,570 7,726 Total assets 2,692,538 2,555,579 Liabilities and equity Liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 22,742 20,922 Deposits by banks 107,429 112,822 Customer accounts 1,340,014 1,253,925 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 7,138 8,745 Trading liabilities 27 304,563 265,192 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 28 87,720 85,724 Derivatives 19 358,886 345,380 Debt securities in issue 29 119,461 131,013 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 30 5,018 22,200 Other liabilities 30 33,862 27,967 Current tax liabilities 1,452 2,117 Liabilities under insurance contracts 31 68,195 61,259 Accruals and deferred income 13,184 13,106 Provisions 32 5,252 3,324 Deferred tax liabilities 9 1,109 1,518 Retirement benefit liabilities 7 3,905 3,666 Subordinated liabilities 33 29,479 30,606 Total liabilities 2,509,409 2,389,486 Equity Called up share capital 38 9,238 8,934 Share premium account 10,084 8,457 Other equity instruments 5,851 5,851 Other reserves 29,722 23,615 Retained earnings 120,347 111,868 Total shareholders’ equity 175,242 158,725 Non-controlling interests 37 7,887 7,368 Total equity 183,129 166,093 Total equity and liabilities 2,692,538 2,555,579 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. D J Flint, Group Chairman 374 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 20,649 21,872 19,037 Adjustments for: – net gain from investing activities (2,094 ) (1,196 ) (1,698 ) – share of profits in associates and joint ventures (3,557 ) (3,264 ) (2,517 ) – gain on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited (7,024 ) – – – other non-cash items included in profit before tax 39 19,778 19,878 18,887 – change in operating assets 39 (116,521 ) (7,412 ) (13,267 ) – change in operating liabilities 39 89,070 44,012 42,272 – elimination of exchange differences3 (3,626 ) 10,840 (1,799 ) – dividends received from associates 489 304 441 – contributions paid to defined benefit plans (733 ) (1,177 ) (3,321 ) – tax paid (5,587 ) (4,095 ) (2,293 ) Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities (9,156 ) 79,762 55,742 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of financial investments (342,974 ) (319,008 ) (341,202 ) Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 329,926 311,702 321,846 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,318 ) (1,505 ) (2,533 ) Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 241 300 4,373 Proceeds from the sale of loan portfolios – – 4,243 Net purchase of intangible assets (1,008 ) (1,571 ) (1,179 ) Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries – – (86 ) Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US cards business 20,905 – – Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of other subsidiaries and businesses (863 ) 216 466 Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of associates (1,804 ) (90 ) (1,589 ) Net cash outflow from the deconsolidation of funds – – (19,566 ) Proceeds from disposal of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China Limited 1,954 – – Proceeds from disposal of other associates and joint ventures 594 25 254 Net cash generated/(used) in investing activities 5,653 (9,931 ) (34,973 ) Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 594 96 180 Issue of other equity instruments – – 3,718 Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and investment purposes (25 ) (225 ) 163 Net sales/(purchases) of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards – (136 ) 11 On exercise of share options – – 2 Subordinated loan capital issued 37 7 4,481 Subordinated loan capital repaid (1,754 ) (3,777 ) (2,475 ) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from change in stake in subsidiaries (14 ) 104 (229 ) Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company (5,925 ) (5,014 ) (3,441 ) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (572 ) (568 ) (595 ) Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments (573 ) (573 ) (413 ) Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (8,232 ) (10,086 ) 1,402 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (11,735 ) 59,745 22,171 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 325,449 274,076 250,766 Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents 1,594 (8,372 ) 1,139 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 39 315,308 325,449 274,076 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. 375 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 Other reserves Called upsharecapitalUS$m Share Premium4US$m Otherequityinstru-mentsUS$m Retainedearnings 5,6,7US$m Available-for-salefair valuereserveUS$m Cash flow hedging reserve8US$m ForeignexchangereserveUS$m Merger Reserve5,9US$m Totalshare-holders’equityUS$m Non-controlling interestsUS$m TotalequityUS$m At 1 January 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361 ) (95 ) (237 ) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093 Profit for the year – – – 14,027 – – – – 14,027 1,307 15,334 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – 321 5,010 108 989 – 6,428 106 6,534 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 5,010 – – – 5,010 60 5,070 Cash flow hedges – – – – – 108 – – 108 1 109 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans – – – (212 ) – – – – (212 ) 17 (195 ) Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 533 533 533 Exchange differences – – – – – – 989 – 989 28 1,017 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 14,348 5,010 108 989 – 20,455 1,413 21,868 Shares issued under employee remuneration and share plans 119 1,812 – (1,337 ) – – – – 594 – 594 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 185 (185 ) – 2,429 – – – – 2,429 – 2,429 Dividends to shareholders10 – – – (8,042 ) – – – – (8,042 ) (707 ) (8,749 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 32 – – – – 32 – 32 Own shares adjustment – – – 2 – – – – 2 – 2 Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 988 – – – – 988 – 988 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 42 – – – – 42 – 42 Other movements – – – (26 ) – – – – (26 ) (20 ) (46 ) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (108 ) (108 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – 43 – – – – 43 (59 ) (16 ) At 31 December 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649 13 752 27,308 175,242 7,887 183,129 376 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 (continued) 2011 Other reserves Called upsharecapitalUS$m Share Premium4US$m Otherequityinstru-mentsUS$m Retainedearnings5,6,7US$m Available-for-salefair valuereserveUS$m Cash flow hedging reserve8US$m ForeignexchangereserveUS$m Merger Reserve5,9US$m Totalshare-holders’equityUS$m Non-controlling interestsUS$m TotalequityUS$m At 1 January 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077 ) (285 ) 2,468 27,308 147,667 7,248 154,915 Profit for the year – – – 16,797 – – – – 16,797 1,147 17,944 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – 368 716 190 (2,705 ) – (1,431 ) (109 ) (1,540 ) Available-for-sale investments – – – – 716 – – – 716 (42 ) 674 Cash flow hedges – – – – – 190 – – 190 (3 ) 187 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans – – – 1,078 – – – – 1,078 (69 ) 1,009 Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures – – – (710 ) – – – – (710 ) – (710 ) Exchange differences – – – – – (2,705 ) – (2,705 ) 5 (2,700 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 17,165 716 190 (2,705 ) – 15,366 1,038 16,404 Shares issued under employee share plans 6 90 – – – – – – 96 – 96 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 85 (87 ) – 2,232 – – – – 2,230 – 2,230 Dividends to shareholders10 – – – (7,501 ) – – – – (7,501 ) (815 ) (8,316 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 128 – – – – 128 128 Own shares adjustment – – – (361 ) – – – – (361 ) – (361 ) Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 1,154 – – – – 1,154 – 1,154 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 21 – – – – 21 – 21 Other movements – – – (75 ) – – – – (75 ) 28 (47 ) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (252 ) (252 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – – – – – – – 121 121 At 31 December 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361 ) (95 ) (237 ) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093 377 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 (continued) 2010 Other reserves Called upsharecapitalUS$m Share Premium4US$m Otherequityinstru-mentsUS$m Retainedearnings 5,6,7US$m Available-for-salefair valuereserveUS$m Cash flow hedging reserve8US$m ForeignexchangereserveUS$m Merger Reserve5,9US$m Totalshare-holders’equityUS$m Non-controlling interestsUS$m TotalequityUS$m At 1 January 8,705 8,413 2,133 88,737 (9,965 ) (26 ) 2,994 27,308 128,299 7,362 135,661 Profit for the year – – – 13,159 – – – – 13,159 1,032 14,191 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – 49 5,671 (266 ) (526 ) – 4,928 115 5,043 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 5,671 – – – 5,671 164 5,835 Cash flow hedges – – – – – (266 ) – – (266 ) (5 ) (271 ) Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans – – – (58 ) – – – – (58 ) (3 ) (61 ) Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures – – – 107 – – – – 107 – 107 Exchange differences – – – – – – (526 ) – (526 ) (41 ) (567 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 13,208 5,671 (266 ) (526 ) – 18,087 1,147 19,234 Shares issued under employee share plans 12 168 – – – – – – 180 – 180 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 126 (127 ) – 2,524 – – – – 2,523 – 2,523 Capital securities issued11 – – 3,718 – – – – – 3,718 – 3,718 Dividends to shareholders10 – – – (6,350 ) – – – – (6,350 ) (725 ) (7,075 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 122 – – – – 122 – 122 Own shares adjustment – – – 174 – – – – 174 – 174 Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 812 – – – – 812 – 812 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – (14 ) – – – – (14 ) – (14 ) Other movements – – – (58 ) 217 7 – – 166 3 169 Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – (436 ) (436 ) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that did not result in loss of control – – – (50 ) – – – – (50 ) (103 ) (153 ) At 31 December 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077 ) (285 ) 2,468 27,308 147,667 7,248 154,915 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 382. 378 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2012 Notes 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 353 316 Derivatives 19 3,768 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 41,675 28,048 Financial investments 1,208 1,078 Current tax assets 147 104 Prepayments and accrued income 82 32 Investments in subsidiaries 25 92,234 90,621 Property, plant and equipment 3 4 Deferred tax assets 9 14 91 Total assets 139,484 123,862 Liabilities and equity Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 12,856 2,479 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 28 23,195 21,151 Derivatives 19 760 1,067 Debt securities in issue 29 2,691 2,613 Other liabilities 30 30 911 Accruals and deferred income 1,018 1,008 Subordinated liabilities 33 11,907 12,450 Total liabilities 52,457 41,679 Equity Called up share capital 38 9,238 8,934 Share premium account 10,084 8,457 Other equity instruments 5,828 5,828 Other reserves 37,170 36,849 Retained earnings 24,707 22,115 Total equity 87,027 82,183 Total equity and liabilities 139,484 123,862 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. D J Flint, Group Chairman 379 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 8,679 5,758 Adjustments for: – non-cash items included in profit before tax 39 535 77 – change in operating assets 39 (4,011 ) (5,489 ) – change in operating liabilities 39 2,951 (414 ) – net loss from investing activities – 570 – tax paid (549 ) (57 ) Net cash generated from operating activities 7,605 445 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of financial investments – 941 Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries (1,973 ) (626 ) Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (1,973 ) 315 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 1,905 96 Sales of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards 178 – Subordinated loan capital repaid (760 ) (750 ) Debt securities issued 2,000 5,338 Debt securities repaid (2,420 ) – Dividends paid (5,925 ) (5,014 ) Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments (573 ) (573 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,595 ) (903 ) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 37 (143 ) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 316 459 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 39 353 316 The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnote, see page 382. 380 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 Other reserves Called upsharecapitalUS$m Share Premium4US$m Otherequityinstru-mentsUS$m Retained earnings 12 US$m Available-for-salefair valuereserveUS$m Otherpaid-in capital13US$m Mergerand other Reserves9US$m Totalshare-holders’equityUS$m At 1 January 2012 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 Profit for the year – – – 8,082 – – – 8,082 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – – 102 – – 102 Available-for-sale investments – – – – 129 – – 129 Income tax – – – – (27 ) – – (27 ) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 8,082 102 – – 8,184 Shares issued under employee share plans 119 1,812 – (26 ) – – – 1,905 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 185 (185 ) – 2,429 – – – 2,429 Dividends to shareholders10 – – – (8,042 ) – – – (8,042 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 32 – – – 32 Own shares adjustment – – – 379 – – – 379 Exercise and lapse of share options – – – (219 ) – 219 – – Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 55 – – – 55 Income taxes on share-based payments – – – 10 – – – 10 Equity investments granted to employees of subsidiaries under employee share plans – – – (108 ) – – – (108 ) At 31 December 2012 9,238 10,084 5,828 24,707 114 1,929 35,127 87,027 At 1 January 2011 8,843 8,454 5,828 21,440 56 1,583 35,127 81,331 Profit for the year – – – 5,471 – – – 5,471 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) – – – – (44 ) – – (44 ) Available-for-sale investments – – – – (61 ) – – (61 ) Income tax – – – – 17 – – 17 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 5,471 (44 ) – – 5,427 Shares issued under employee share plans 6 90 – – – – – 96 Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising thereon4 85 (87 ) – 2,232 – – – 2,230 Dividends to shareholders10 – – – (7,501 ) – – – (7,501 ) Tax credit on distributions – – – 128 – – – 128 Own shares adjustment – – – (265 ) – – – (265 ) Exercise and lapse of share options – – – (127 ) – 127 – – Cost of share-based payment arrangements – – – 57 – – – 57 Equity investments granted to employees of subsidiaries under employee share plans – – – 674 – – – 674 Other movements – – – 6 – – – 6 At 31 December 2011 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2012 were US$0.41 (2011: US$0.39; 2010: US$0.34). The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements1. For footnotes, see page 382. 381 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Statements (continued) Footnotes to Financial Statements 1 The ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 54 to 57, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 123 to 280 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 281 to 300 are also an integral part of these financial statements. 2 Fair value gains in available-for-sale investments for 2012 include US$737m relating to the investment in Ping An classified as assets held for sale. 3 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 4 Share premium includes a nil deduction in respect of issuance costs incurred during the year (2011: US$2m; 2010: US$1m). 5 Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138m has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including US$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of US$1,669m has been charged against retained earnings. 6 Retained earnings include 86,394,826 (US$874m) of own shares held within HSBC’s Insurance business, retirement funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets (2011: 98,498,019 (US$1,320m); 2010: 123,331,979 (US$1,799m)). 7 The movement in reserves relating to equity-settled share-based payment arrangement is recognised in ‘Retained earnings’ in the ‘Consolidated Statement of change in equity’ with effect from 1 January 2011. Previously it was disclosed separately in a ‘Share-based payment reserve’ within ‘Other reserves’. Comparative data have been restated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Other reserves’ and increased ‘Retained earnings’ by US$1,982m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$2,274m; 2010: US$1,755m). There was no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share following this change. 8 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$43m gain (2011: US$104m gain; 2010: US$605m gain) taken to ‘Net interest income’ and US$380m gain (2011: US$893m loss; 2010: US$441m loss) taken to ‘Net trading income’. 9 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Act’) was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only. In HSBC’s consolidated financial statements the fair value differences of US$8,290m in respect of HSBC France and US$12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), following a number of intra-group reorganisations. During 2009, pursuant to Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and US$15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve includes the deduction of US$614m in respect of costs relating to the rights issue, of which US$149m was subsequently transferred to the income statement. Of this US$149m, US$121m was a loss arising from accounting for the agreement with the underwriters as a contingent forward contract. The merger reserve excludes the loss of US$344m on a forward foreign exchange contract associated with hedging the proceeds of the rights issue. 10 Including distributions paid on preference shares and capital securities classified as equity. 11 During June 2010, HSBC Holdings issued US$3,800m of Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities, Series 2 (‘capital securities’) on which there were US$82m of external issuance costs and US$23m of intra-group issuance costs which are classified as equity under IFRSs. The capital securities are exchangeable at HSBC Holdings’ option into non-cumulative US dollar preference shares on any coupon payment date. Interest on the captial securities is paid quarterly and may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. The capital securities may only be redeemed at the option of HSBC Holdings. 12 Retained earnings include 3,903,901 (US$57m) of own shares held to fund employee share plans (2011: 33,557,764 (US$563m)). 13 Other paid-in capital arises from the exercise and lapse of share options granted to employees of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries. 382 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation (a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU. At 31 December 2012, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2012 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) and its predecessor body. As a result of changing market practices in response to regulatory and accounting changes, as well as general market developments, HSBC revised its methodology for estimating the credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) for derivatives at 31 December 2012. Previously, the probability of default (‘PD’) used in the CVA calculation was based on HSBC’s internal credit rating for the counterparty taking into account how credit ratings may deteriorate over the duration of the exposure based on historical rating transition matrices. The revised methodology maximises the use of the PDs based on market-observable data, such as credit default swap (‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not available, PDs are estimated having regard to market practice, considering relevant data including both CDS indices and historical rating transition matrices. In addition, HSBC aligned its methodology for estimating the debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) to be consistent with that applied for CVA as at 31 December 2012. Historically, HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate in respect of own credit risk and consequently did not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. At 31 December 2012, the effect of the changes in fair value estimates as a result of the revisions to methodology was to reduce derivative liabilities by US$518m and to reduce derivative assets by US$899m resulting in a reduction in net trading income of US$381m. It is impracticable to estimate the effect of the changes in fair value estimates on future periods. See Note 15 for further information on CVA and DVA methodologies. During 2012, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. (b) Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements. (c) Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited sections of the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 123 to 280. Capital disclosures under IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ have been included in the audited sections of ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ on pages 281 to 300. Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited section of ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 123 to 280. In accordance with HSBC’s policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand 383 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) the Group’s performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules. In particular, HSBC has provided additional disclosures following the issue of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force (‘EDTF’) report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’ in 2012 and will further enhance its risk disclosures in 2013. The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information about banks’ risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting. The recommendations for disclosure improvement focused on the principal risks faced by the banking industry, and included disclosures about risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity, funding, credit risk, market risk and other risks. In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers’ Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure (‘the BBA Code’). The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance. In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate. In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency. HSBC Holdings’ functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities. HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. (d) Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions. The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates; actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared. Management believes that HSBC’s critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, deferred tax assets and provisions for liabilities. See ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 54 to 57, which form an integral part of these financial statements. Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the Notes on the Financial Statements. (e) Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations. Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control. The acquisition method of accounting is used when subsidiaries are acquired by HSBC. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement. In the event that the amount of net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement. 384 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases. In the context of Special Purpose Entities (‘SPE’s), the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an SPE: • the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPE’s operation; • HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up an ‘autopilot’ mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers; • HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incidental to the activities of the SPE; or • HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities. HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between HSBC and an SPE. All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates. These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of BoCom, Ping An and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September. These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Group’s reporting timetable. HSBC takes into account the effect of significant transactions or events that occur between the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material effect on its results. As discussed further in Note 26, HSBC announced disposal of its entire shareholding in Ping An. As a result of the disposal of the first tranche of shares on 7 December 2012, HSBC no longer had significant influence over Ping An at 31 December 2012 and ceased to account for it as an associate. (f) Future accounting developments At 31 December 2012, a number of standards and amendments to standards had been issued by the IASB which are not effective for these consolidated financial statements. In addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, the IASB is continuing to work on projects on insurance, revenue recognition and lease accounting which, together with the standards described below, could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future. Amendments issued by the IASB Standards applicable in 2013 In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements,’ IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.’ In June 2012, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 ‘Transition Guidance’. The standards and amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRSs 10 and 11 are required to be applied retrospectively. Under IFRS 10, there is one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concept of power, variability of returns and their linkage. This replaced the approach which applies to these financial statements which emphasises legal control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the entity. IFRS 11 places more focus on the investors’ rights and obligations than on the structure of the arrangement, and introduces the concept of a joint operation. IFRS 12 is a comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including for unconsolidated structured entities. We do not expect the overall effect of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on the financial statements to be material. 385 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) In May 2011, the IASB also issued IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement.’ This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 13 is required to be applied prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied. The disclosure requirements of IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application. IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements required or permitted by IFRSs. The standard clarifies the definition of fair value as an exit price, which is defined as a price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, and enhances disclosures about fair value measurement. The effect of IFRS 13 is not expected to be material to HSBC. In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (‘IAS 19 revised’). The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IAS 19 revised is required to be applied retrospectively. The most significant amendment for HSBC is the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets by a finance cost component comprising the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. This finance cost component is determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the return included in the finance cost component in the income statement will be presented in other comprehensive income. The effect of this change is to increase the pension expense by the difference between the current expected return on plan assets and the return calculated by applying the relevant discount rate. Based on our estimate of the effect of this particular amendment on the 2012 consolidated financial statements, the change would have an immaterial effect on pre-tax profit and total operating expenses, with no effect on the pension liability. Therefore, the effect at the date of adoption on 1 January 2013 was not material to HSBC. In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ which requires the disclosures about the effect or potential effects of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and related arrangements on an entity’s financial position. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods within those annual periods. The amendments are required to be applied retrospectively. Standards applicable in 2014 In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ which clarify the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and address inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and are required to be applied retrospectively. Based on our initial assessment, we do not expect the amendments to IAS 32 to have a material effect on HSBC’s financial statements. In October 2012, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 ‘Investment Entities’, which introduced an exception to the principle that all subsidiaries shall be consolidated. The amendments require a parent that is an investment entity to measure its investments in particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss instead of consolidating all subsidiaries in its consolidated and separate financial statements. The amendments are effective from 1 January 2014 with early adoption permitted. Based on our initial assessment, we do not expect the amendments to have a material effect on HSBC’s consolidated financial statements. Standards applicable in 2015 In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ which introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets. In October 2010, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 incorporating requirements for financial liabilities. Together, these changes represent the first phase in the IASB’s planned replacement of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.’ Following the IASB’s decision in December 2011 to defer the effective date, the standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 9 is required to be applied retrospectively but prior periods need not be restated. 386 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The second and third phases in the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 will address the impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. The IASB is in the process of amending the requirements for classification and measurement in IFRS 9 to address practice and other issues. The final IFRS 9 requirements for classification and measurement and impairment remain uncertain and so HSBC remains unable to provide a date by which it will apply IFRS 9 as a whole and it remains impracticable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 as at the date of the publication of these financial statements. EU endorsement All the standards applicable in 2013 and 2014 have been endorsed for use in the EU, except for the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 ‘Transition Guidance’ and the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 ‘Investment Entities’. Until these amendments are endorsed, the relief they provide for comparatives disclosures in accordance with IFRS 12 will not be available for use in the EU. 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (a) Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value (except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities) are recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability (or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit losses. The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. (b) Non-interest income Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers. Fee income is accounted for as follows: – income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed (for example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities); – income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided (for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees); and – income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate (for example, certain loan commitment fees) and recorded in ‘Interest income’. Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends. Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. Interest income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC, and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’ (Note 2a). 387 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity securities. (c) Operating segments Due to the nature of the Group, HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker regularly reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. HSBC considers that geographical operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic environments in which it operates. This reflects the importance of geographic factors on business strategy and performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional management in executing strategy. As a result, HSBC’s operating segments are considered to be geographical regions. Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted on arm’s length terms and conditions. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost of being headquartered in the UK. (d) Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. In the normal course of business, the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates. When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the financial instrument, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value. When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in fair value from the transaction price as indicated by the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income statement. Instead, it is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, when the inputs become observable, the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction. Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value are measured in accordance with HSBC’s valuation methodologies, which are described in Notes 15 and 16. (e) Reclassification of financial assets Non-derivative financial assets (other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in the following circumstances: – financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition (if the financial asset had not been required to be classified as held for trading) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if there is the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity; and – financial assets (except financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into another category in rare circumstances. When a financial asset is reclassified as described in the above circumstances, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss already recognised in the income statement is not reversed. The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable. 388 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (f) Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified as held for trading or designated at fair value. Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower. They are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any reduction from impairment or uncollectibility. Where exposures are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment relating only to the hedged risk. Loans and advances are reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ when their carrying amounts are to be recovered principally through sale, they are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable (Note 2ac); however, such loans and advances continue to be measured in accordance with the policy described above. HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC. Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss. On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss. Where it is not HSBC’s intention to trade but hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss. This may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower than the cost of funding. On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. For certain transactions, such as leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced is not necessarily the best evidence of the fair value of the loan. For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced (for example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest), the write-down is charged to the income statement. The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income using the effective interest method, unless the loan becomes impaired. The write-down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income. Financial assets which have been reclassified into the loans and receivables category are initially recorded at the fair value at the date of reclassification and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification. (g) Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred. Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively. Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement. The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts. Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised. Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include: – the size of the loan; – the number of loans in the portfolio; and – the importance of the individual loan relationship, and how this is managed. Loans that meet the above criteria will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective assessment methodology. Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers and are for larger amounts, which are managed on an individual relationship basis. Retail lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios generally consist of large pools of homogeneous loans. 389 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. The criteria used by HSBC to determine that there is such objective evidence include: – known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower; – contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days; – the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation; – a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is not insignificant; and – there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to repay is considered doubtful. For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: – HSBC’s aggregate exposure to the customer; – the viability of the customer’s business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations; – the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries; – the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy; – the extent of other creditors’ commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company; – the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident; – the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and likelihood of successful repossession; – the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding; – the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency; and – when available, the secondary market price of the debt. The realisable value of security is determined based on the current market value when the impairment assessment is performed. The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices; however, adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts. Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which includes expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loan’s original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. The impairment allowances on individually significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require. This normally encompasses re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral held and the timing and amount of actual and anticipated receipts. Individually assessed impairment allowances are only released when there is reasonable and objective evidence of a reduction in the established loss estimate. Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: – to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment; and – for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant. 390 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective impairment. These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors. This reflects impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. These losses will only be individually identified in the future. As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis for impairment. The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: – historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics (for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product); – the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan; and – management’s experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience. The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio. The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. As it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis the estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification may vary over time as these factors change. Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable. Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at which point they are removed from the group. Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: – When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology. This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable. In addition to the delinquency groupings, loans are segmented according to their credit characteristics as described above. Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss. The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio. In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics. – When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience. The period between a loss occurring and its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is typically between six and twelve months. The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data observations, which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends. When the most recent trends arising from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in 391 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) the statistical models, they are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the statistical models to reflect these changes as at the balance sheet date. These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features (such as the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges), economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, adjustments to the period of time between loss identification and write-off, changes in laws and regulations and other factors which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters. These risk factors, where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience. Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. Write-off of loans and advances Loans (and the related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier. Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly. The write-back is recognised in the income statement. Reclassified loans and advances Where financial assets have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category to the loans and receivables category, the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification is used to calculate any impairment losses. Following reclassification, where there is a subsequent increase in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability of those cash receipts, the effect of that increase is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the date of change in the estimate rather than as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset at the date of change in the estimate. Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in ‘Other assets’ if the carrying amounts of the assets are recovered principally through sale, the assets are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan (net of impairment allowance) at the date of exchange. No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale. Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in ‘Other operating income’. Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in ‘Other operating income’, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal. Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments required have been received. Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment, to reflect their risk profile. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired. The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition. 392 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms, or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified, such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument. (h) Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity securities, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. These financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell the financial instruments, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. (i) Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management. HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: – eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different bases. Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues. The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on ‘receive fixed/pay variable’ interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy. An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement. By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement. Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked insurance and unit-linked investment contracts. Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement. If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available for sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded in other comprehensive income. These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis. Designation at fair value of the financial assets and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line; – applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis. Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under non-linked insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated. HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks. Reports are provided to management on the fair value of the assets. Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations; and – relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held. The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable. Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). 393 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. (j) Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value, are classified as available for sale or held to maturity. Financial investments are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations. (i) Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income in ‘Available-for-sale investments – fair value gains/(losses)’ until the financial assets are either sold or become impaired. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’. Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated over the asset’s expected life. Premiums and/or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates. Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established. At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset. Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated. If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial asset’s acquisition cost (net of any principal repayments and amortisation) and the current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within ‘Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions’ in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity securities are recognised within ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’ in the income statement. The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below. – Available-for-sale debt securities. When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in recovery of future cash flows. These events may include a significant financial difficulty of the issuer, a breach of contract such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, or the disappearance of an active market for the debt security because of financial difficulties relating to the issuer. These types of specific event and other factors such as information about the issuers’ liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment of a debt security. In addition, when assessing available-for-sale asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) for objective evidence of impairment, HSBC considers the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of market price declines. Changes in credit ratings are considered but a downgrade of a security’s credit rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment. The primary indicators of potential impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security. ABS impairment methodologies are described in more detail in ‘Impairment methodologies’ on page 260. 394 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) – Available-for-sale equity securities. Objective evidence of impairment for available-for sale equity securities may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment. In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition. Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the available-for-sale financial asset concerned: – for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income. If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. If there is no longer objective evidence that the debt security is impaired, the impairment loss is also reversed through the income statement; – for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement. Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost of the equity security. (ii) Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold to maturity. Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. (k) Sale and repurchase agreements (including stock lending and borrowing) When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to sell (‘reverse repos’) are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in ‘Loans and advances to banks’, ‘Loans and advances to customers’ or ‘Trading assets’ as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over the life of the agreement for loans and advances to banks and customers, and as net trading income for trading assets. Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received. The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally reflected on the balance sheet. Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively. Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet. If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in ‘Net trading income’. (l) Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value. Fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices. Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models. 395 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option. Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract; the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract; and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis. The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged. All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement. When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: (i) hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (‘fair value hedges’); (ii) hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction (‘cash flow hedges’); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (‘net investment hedges’). Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met. Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge. HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in ‘Net interest income’. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk. If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately. Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income within ‘Cash flow hedges – fair value gains/(losses)’. Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement. 396 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income; a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation. Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective (prospective effectiveness), and demonstrate actual effectiveness (retrospective effectiveness) on an ongoing basis. The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed. The method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy. For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated. For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80% to 125%. Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement. These gains and losses are reported in ‘Net trading income’, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value (other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC), in which case gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC which are designated at fair value is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting include non-qualifying hedges entered into as part of documented interest rate management strategies for which hedge accounting was not, or could not, be applied. The size and direction of changes in fair value of non-qualifying hedges can be volatile from year to year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented management strategies for both the non-qualifying hedge instruments and the assets and liabilities to which the documented interest rate strategies relate. Non-qualifying hedges therefore operate as economic hedges of the related assets and liabilities. (m) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired; or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: – substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred; or – HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control. Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled, or expires. (n) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 397 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (o) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries. Where HSBC is a party to a contractual arrangement whereby, together with one or more parties, it undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control, HSBC classifies its interest in the venture as a joint venture. HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates. For the purpose of determining this classification, control is considered to be the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods shall be reversed through the income statement if, and only if, there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary since the last impairment loss was recognised. Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBC’s share of net assets. (p) Goodwill and intangible assets (i) Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. If the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the cost of investment exceeds HSBC’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s or joint venture’s identifiable assets and liabilities. Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s cash-generating units are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. Impairment testing is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the CGU may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount. The carrying amount of a CGU is based on the assets and liabilities of each CGU, including attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of the expected future cash flows from a cash-generating unit. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in ‘Interests in associates and joint ventures’ and is not tested separately for impairment. At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBC’s share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained. (ii) Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships. Computer software includes both purchased and internally generated software. The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately as incurred. 398 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where: – intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually. This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year. An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year; and – intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life. The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within ‘Net fee income’. For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business (see Note 2y). (iii) Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful lives as follows: Trade names 10 years Mortgage servicing rights generally between 5 and 12 years Internally generated software between 3 and 5 years Purchased software between 3 and 5 years Customer/merchant relationships between 3 and 10 years Other generally 10 years (q) Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (‘deemed cost’), less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: – freehold land is not depreciated; – freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their remaining useful lives; and – leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their remaining useful lives. Equipment, fixtures and fittings (including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor) are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation, is calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years. Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both. Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques. (r) Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases. When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in ‘Loans and advances to banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’, as appropriate. The finance income receivable is recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in ‘Other liabilities’. A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of 399 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) the minimum lease payments. Finance charges payable are recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and accounts for them accordingly. Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is thereby impaired. When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet. Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in ‘General and administrative expenses’ and ‘Other operating income’, respectively. (s) Income tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears. Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists. Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset. Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other comprehensive income. Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense. Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, is also charged or credited to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. (t) Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world. These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare. Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBC’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render service. The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the schemes’ actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the current service cost, plus the unwinding of the discount rate on plan liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets, and is presented in operating expenses. Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest. Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred), as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 400 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans. (u) Share-based payments HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for services provided by employees. Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle employees to receive equity instruments of HSBC. Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle employees to receive cash or other assets based on the price or value of the equity instruments of HSBC. The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to ‘Retained earnings’. The vesting period is the period during which all the specified vesting conditions of the arrangement are to be satisfied. The fair value of equity instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed immediately. For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability, as the employees render service. Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award. Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance conditions; any other features of the arrangement are non-vesting conditions. Market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether these conditions are satisfied, provided all other vesting conditions are satisfied. Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date. They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest. On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions. Where an award has been modified, as a minimum, the expense of the original award continues to be recognised as if it had not been modified. Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award of the extra equity instruments is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the modified vesting period. A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period. Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, the cost is recognised in ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ and credited to the ‘Retained earnings’ over the vesting period. When a subsidiary funds the share-based payment arrangement, ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ is reduced by the fair value of the equity instruments. (v) Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBC’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange 401 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) differences are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined. Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income. Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement. In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period. Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income. Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements. In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised. (w) Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC; or are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote. (x) Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable. Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations. HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities. Where it has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract in HSBC Holdings’ financial statements. This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each contract is irrevocable. Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities. (y) Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. 402 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. Insurance premiums Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established. Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period. The unearned premium (the proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance sheet date) is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis. Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate. Insurance claims and reinsurance recoveries Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration. Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims. Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment. Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities. Death claims are recognised when notified. Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding claims liabilities. Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles. Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claim-handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques. A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows. When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability. When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement. Future profit participation on insurance contracts with discretionary participation features Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders. These provisions reflect actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and management expectation on the future performance in connection with the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate. This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy. Investment contracts Unit linked and non-linked Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value. Movements in fair value are recognised in ‘Net income from financial 403 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) investments designated at fair value’. Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts. Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision of the investment management services, in ‘Net fee income’. The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided. Investment contracts with discretionary participation features While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. The Group therefore recognises the premiums for those contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability. In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets. In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable. Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement. Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term investment contracts with discretionary participating features (‘DPF’) and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset. The asset represents the present value of the equity holders’ interest in the issuing insurance companies’ profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date. The present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with DPF, referred to as ‘PVIF’, is determined by discounting the equity holders’ interest in future profits expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts. The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees. The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in ‘Other operating income’ on a gross of tax basis. (z) Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the instrument. (aa) Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled. When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects. 404 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (ab) Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Such investments are normally those with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates of deposit. (ac) Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups (including both the assets and liabilities of the disposal groups) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale, they are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except for those assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ such as deferred taxes, financial instruments, investment properties, insurance contracts and assets and liabilities arising from employee benefits. These are measured in accordance with the accounting policies described above. Immediately before the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the asset (or assets and liabilities in the disposal group) are measured in accordance with applicable IFRSs. On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities noted above that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 are remeasured in accordance with applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group is determined. Income earned and expenses incurred on assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale continue to be recognised in the appropriate line items in the income statement until the transaction is complete. Loan impairment charges incurred on assets held for sale continue to be recognised in ‘Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions’ and interest income and expense continue to be recognised in ‘Net interest income’. Once classified as held for sale, movements arising from the initial measurement or subsequent remeasurement of the non-current assets (or disposal groups) are recognised in ‘Other operating income’. 405 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: • all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, including liabilities under investment contracts; • all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and • interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of: – financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and – derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising from HSBC’s issued debt securities and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net income/(expense) arising on: – financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 2,980 (933 ) 2,349 – other financial assets designated at fair value 83 1,050 230 – derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets designated at fair value 35 (182 ) (149 ) 3,098 (65 ) 2,430 – liabilities to customers under investment contracts (996 ) 231 (946 ) – HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives (4,327 ) 4,161 (258 ) – changes in own credit spread on long-term debt (5,215 ) 3,933 (63 ) – derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC’s issued debt securities 431 3,165 (275 ) – other changes in fair value 457 (2,937 ) 80 – other financial liabilities designated at fair value (23 ) (911 ) (18 ) – derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities designated at fair value 22 23 12 (5,324 ) 3,504 (1,210 ) (2,226 ) 3,439 1,220 HSBC Holdings Net income/(expense) arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Net income/(expense) arising on: – changes in own credit spread on long-term debt (2,260 ) 1,657 248 – derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 456 1,368 (482 ) – other changes in fair value (474 ) (1,113 ) 373 (2,278 ) 1,912 139 406 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 4 Net earned insurance premiums Non-lifeinsurance Lifeinsurance (non-linked) Lifeinsurance (linked) Investmentcontracts with DPF1 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Gross earned premiums 716 6,862 3,325 2,699 13,602 – gross written premiums 760 6,815 3,325 2,699 13,599 – movement in unearned premiums (44 ) 47 – – 3 Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (107 ) (443 ) (8 ) – (558 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (104 ) (408 ) (8 ) – (520 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums (3 ) (35 ) – – (38 ) 609 6,419 3,317 2,699 13,044 2011 Gross earned premiums 1,144 6,238 2,801 3,155 13,338 – gross written premiums 1,175 6,207 2,804 3,155 13,341 – movement in unearned premiums (31 ) 31 (3 ) – (3 ) Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (180 ) (278 ) (8 ) – (466 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (182 ) (255 ) (8 ) – (445 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums 2 (23 ) – – (21 ) 964 5,960 2,793 3,155 12,872 2010 Gross earned premiums 1,275 5,427 1,956 2,951 11,609 – gross written premiums 1,192 5,357 1,956 2,951 11,456 – movement in unearned premiums 83 70 – – 153 Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums (160 ) (289 ) (14 ) – (463 ) – gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers (172 ) (266 ) (8 ) – (446 ) – reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned premiums 12 (23 ) (6 ) – (17 ) 1,115 5,138 1,942 2,951 11,146 1 Discretionary participation features. 5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders Non-lifeinsurance Lifeinsurance (non-linked) Lifeinsurance (linked) Investmentcontracts with DPF1 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 342 6,558 3,984 3,645 14,529 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 339 1,566 1,810 2,525 6,240 – movement in liabilities 3 4,992 2,174 1,120 8,289 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (58 ) (479 ) 223 – (314 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (57 ) (160 ) (681 ) – (898 ) – movement in liabilities (1 ) (319 ) 904 – 584 284 6,079 4,207 3,645 14,215 407 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to shareholders (continued) Non-lifeinsurance Lifeinsurance (non-linked) Lifeinsurance (linked) Investmentcontracts with DPF1 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2011 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 435 5,729 2,462 3,005 11,631 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 631 1,793 1,129 2,628 6,181 – movement in liabilities (196 ) 3,936 1,333 377 5,450 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (85 ) (254 ) (111 ) – (450 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (81 ) (164 ) (56 ) – (301 ) – movement in liabilities (4 ) (90 ) (55 ) – (149 ) 350 5,475 2,351 3,005 11,181 2010 Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities 625 5,108 2,520 3,716 11,969 – claims, benefits and surrenders paid 815 1,355 507 2,023 4,700 – movement in liabilities (190 ) 3,753 2,013 1,693 7,269 Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities (100 ) (201 ) 99 – (202 ) – claims, benefits and surrenders paid (114 ) (143 ) (45 ) – (302 ) – movement in liabilities 14 (58 ) 144 – 100 525 4,907 2,619 3,716 11,767 1 Discretionary participation features. 6 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses: 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets1 1,261 1,604 516 Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities 10,042 11,318 11,445 Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers 2,897 3,072 3,074 Income from listed investments 5,850 8,283 7,418 Income from unlisted investments 7,677 8,031 7,187 Gain arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures – 208 188 Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value (17,625 ) (20,965 ) (17,549 ) Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities (1,501 ) (1,697 ) (1,529 ) Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers (170 ) (182 ) (151 ) UK bank levy (472 ) (570 ) – Auditors’ remuneration (see Note 8) (49 ) (51 ) (51 ) Gains/(losses) Gain on disposal or settlement of loans and advances 24 116 121 Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities (420 ) (177 ) (105 ) Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and non-financial investments 187 57 701 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (8,311 ) (12,127 ) (14,039 ) Net impairment charge on loans and advances (8,160 ) (11,505 ) (13,548 ) Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities (99 ) (631 ) (472 ) Release/(impairment) in respect of other credit risk provisions (52 ) 9 (19 ) 408 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 1 During 2011 the Group adopted a more stringent treatment for impaired loans for geographical regions with significant levels of forbearance. As a result loans and advances have been classified as impaired that under the previous disclosure convention would otherwise have been classified as neither past due nor impaired or past due but not impaired. The effect of this change on 2011 reported numbers was to increase interest earned on impaired loans from US$0.3bn to US$1.5bn. Restatement of comparative data prior to 31 December 2010 is impracticable (see page 162, ‘Impaired loans disclosure’, for further details). 7 Employee compensation and benefits 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Wages and salaries 17,780 18,923 17,193 Social security costs 1,633 1,754 1,567 Post-employment benefits 1,078 489 1,076 20,491 21,166 19,836 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 2012 2011 2010 Europe 77,204 81,263 79,902 Hong Kong 28,764 30,323 29,105 Rest of Asia-Pacific 88,015 92,685 89,737 Middle East and North Africa 8,645 8,816 8,983 North America 27,396 34,871 36,822 Latin America 54,162 58,026 57,778 Total 284,186 305,984 302,327 Included in ‘Wages and salaries’ above are share-based payment arrangements, as follows: Share-based payments income statement charge 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Restricted and performance share awards1 912 1,041 685 Savings-related and other share option plans 96 121 127 1,008 1,162 812 Equity-settled share-based payments 988 1,154 812 Cash-settled share-based payments 20 8 – 1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). The share-based payment income statement charge above includes US$837m (2011: US$974m; 2010: US$610m) relating to deferred share awards. These awards are generally granted to employees early in the year following the year to which the award relates. The charge for these awards is recognised from the start of the period to which the service relates to the end of the vesting period. The vesting period is the period over which the employee satisfies certain service conditions in order to become entitled to the award. Due to the staggered vesting profile of certain deferred share awards, the employee becomes entitled to a portion of the award at the end of each year during the vesting period. The income statement charge reflects this vesting profile. In addition, wages and salaries also includes US$111m (2011: US$88m; 2010: US$15m) in respect of deferred cash awards for current and prior performance years. The reconciliation of total incentive awards (both deferred and non-deferred) to income statement charge is as follows: 409 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to incentive awards in employee compensation and benefits 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year1 3,689 3,966 4,297 Less: deferred bonuses awarded for the current year but not amortised (355 ) (369 ) (778 ) Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,334 3,597 3,519 Current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 671 897 625 Other2 (28 ) (261 ) (109 ) Total incentive awards for the current year included in employee compensation and benefits 3,977 4,233 4,035 1 This represents the amount of the Group variable pay pool that has been approved and granted. The total amount of Group variable pay pool approved by the Group Remuneration Committee is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 347. 2 This mainly comprises incentive awards paid to employees acting as selling agents, which form an integral part of the effective interest of a financial instrument, recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate and recorded in ‘Interest income’. The following table identifies the charge recognised in the current year, or expected to be recognised in future years, in relation to deferred bonus awards from the current year and prior year bonus pools. Income statement charge for current and prior year bonus pools Current year bonus pool1 Prior year bonus pools Total US$m US$m US$m 2012 Charge recognised in 2012 277 671 948 Deferred share awards 224 613 837 Deferred cash awards 53 58 111 Charge expected to be recognised in 2013 or later 355 376 731 Deferred share awards 315 335 650 Deferred cash awards 40 41 81 2011 Charge recognised in 2011 165 897 1,062 Deferred share awards 131 843 974 Deferred cash awards 34 54 88 Charge expected to be recognised in 2012 or later 369 731 1,100 Deferred share awards 289 652 941 Deferred cash awards 80 79 159 2010 Charge recognised in 2010 – 625 625 Deferred share awards – 610 610 Deferred cash awards – 15 15 Charge expected to be recognised in 2011 or later 778 802 1,580 Deferred share awards 759 801 1,560 Deferred cash awards 19 1 20 1 Current year bonus pool relates to the bonus pool declared for the reporting period (2012 for the current year, 2011 for the 2011 comparatives and 2010 for the 2010 comparatives). 410 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Share-based payments HSBC share awards Award Policy Purpose Restricted share awards (including GPSP awards) • Vesting of awards generally subject to continued employment with HSBC. • Vesting is generally staggered over three years. GPSP awards vest after five years. • Certain shares subject to a retention requirement post-vesting. In the case of GPSP awards retention applies until cessation of employment. • Awards generally not subject to performance conditions. • Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to clawback provision prior to vesting. • Rewards employee performance and potential and supports retention of key employees. • To defer variable pay. Movement on HSBC share awards Restricted share awards1 Performance share awards2 2012 2011 2012 2011 Number(000s) Number(000s) Number(000s) Number(000s) Outstanding at 1 January 262,241 229,092 – 4,425 Additions during the year 107,928 100,819 – 154 Released in the year (193,692 ) (56,301 ) – (883 ) Forfeited in the year (10,888 ) (11,369 ) – (3,696 ) Outstanding at 31 December 165,589 262,241 – – Weighted average fair value of awards granted (US$) 8.93 10.11 – – 1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). 2 Additions during 2011 comprised reinvested dividend equivalents. The last award of performance shares was made in 2008, and shares under the plan were released in March 2011. HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Purpose Savings-related share option plans • Exercisable within three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract or within six months following either the third or fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or five-year contracts, respectively. • The exercise price is set at a 20% (2011: 20%) discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation (except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan where a 15% discount is applied). • Eligible employees save up to £250 per month (or its equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros), with the option to use the savings to acquire shares. • To align the interests of all employees with the creation of shareholder value. HSBC Holdings Group share option plan • Plan ceased in May 2005. • Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant. • Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and 2005 during which certain HSBC employees were awarded share options. The table on page 412 shows the movement on HSBC share option plans during the year. Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options at the date of grant of the option are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant. The fair value of a share option is inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used. 411 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted Savings-related share option plans 1-year plan 3-year plans 5-year plans 2012 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) 0.4 0.6 1.2 Expected life (years) 1 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) 25 25 25 Share price at grant date (£) 5.46 5.46 5.46 2011 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) 0.8 1.7 2.5 Expected life (years) 1 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) 25 25 25 Share price at grant date (£) 6.37 6.37 6.37 2010 Risk-free interest rate1 (%) 0.7 1.9 2.9 Expected life (years) 1 3 5 Expected volatility2 (%) 30 30 30 Share price at grant date (£) 6.82 6.82 6.82 1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve. A similar yield curve was used for the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International. 2 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded options over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options. The expected US dollar denominated dividend yield was determined to be 5.0% per annum in line with consensus analyst forecasts (2011: 4.5%; 2010: 4.5%). HSBC subsidiary company share option plans There are a number of employee share option plans relating to HSBC France, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank Bermuda as a result of the acquisition of these entities. Options granted prior to public announcement of the acquisitions vested on acquisition and are not included in the table below. HSBC France and HSBC Finance granted share options after announcement of the acquisition which vested in subsequent years. Of these, at 31 December 2012, none remained outstanding (2011: 2.4m). Full details of all options outstanding under these plans can be found in Note 38. Movement on HSBC share option plans Savings-related share option plans HSBC Holdings Group share option plan HSBC Finance share option plan Number (000s) WAEP1 £ Number (000s) WAEP1 £ Number (000s) WAEP1 US$ 2012 Outstanding at 1 January 153,465 3.80 120,792 7.02 2,429 9.29 Granted during the year2 44,868 4.44 – – – – Exercised during the year3 (63,954 ) 3.47 (1,606 ) 6.02 (2,054 ) 9.29 Expired during the year (21,627 ) 4.82 (32,013 ) 7.29 (375 ) 9.29 Outstanding at 31 December 112,752 4.04 87,173 6.94 – – At 31 December 2012 Exercise price range (£): 3.00 – 4.50 95,333 – – 4.51 – 6.00 16,129 – – 6.01 – 7.50 1,290 82,278 – 7.51 – 7.96 – 4,895 – Of which exercisable 4,538 87,173 – Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2.26 1.11 – 2011 Outstanding at 1 January 157,855 3.87 152,758 7.12 2,429 9.29 Granted during the year2 23,199 5.11 – – – – Exercised during the year3 (7,439 ) 5.27 (646 ) 6.06 – – Expired during the year (20,150 ) 4.71 (31,320 ) 7.56 – – Outstanding at 31 December 153,465 3.80 120,792 7.02 2,429 9.29 412 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Savings-related share option plans HSBC Holdings Group share option plan HSBC Finance share option plan Number(000s) WAEP1 £ Number(000s) WAEP1 £ Number(000s) WAEP1 US$ At 31 December 2011 Exercise price range (£): 3.00 – 4.50 117,387 – – 4.51 – 6.00 32,778 – – 6.01 – 7.50 2,341 115,901 – 7.51 – 9.29 959 4,891 2,429 Of which exercisable 3,209 120,792 2,429 Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2.04 1.66 0.89 1 Weighted average exercise price. 2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$1.63 (2011: US$2.11). 3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$8.78 (2011: US$8.65) and US$9.00 (2011: US$9.51) for the savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively. Post-employment benefit plans Income statement charge 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Defined benefit pension plans 427 (172 ) 468 – HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 169 (428 ) 308 – other plans 258 256 160 Defined contribution pension plans 599 626 545 1,026 454 1,013 Defined benefit healthcare plans 49 32 58 Defined contribution healthcare plans 3 3 5 1,078 489 1,076 Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Defined benefit pension plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2,617 2,237 – fair value of plan assets 29,092 26,604 – present value of defined benefit obligations (26,475 ) (24,367 ) Other plans (2,585 ) (2,445 ) – fair value of plan assets 9,015 8,232 – present value of defined benefit obligations (11,600 ) (10,680 ) – effect of limit on plan surpluses (19 ) (18 ) – unrecognised past service cost 19 21 Total 32 (208 ) Defined benefit healthcare plans – fair value of plan assets 189 151 – present value of defined benefit obligations (1,261 ) (1,091 ) – unrecognised past service cost (19 ) (21 ) Total (1,091 ) (961 ) Fair value of plan assets 38,296 34,987 Present value of defined benefit obligations (39,336 ) (36,138 ) Effect of limit on plan surpluses (19 ) (18 ) (1,059 ) (1,169 ) Retirement benefit liabilities (3,905 ) (3,666 ) Retirement benefit assets 2,846 2,497 413 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m At 1 January (3,453 ) (4,720 ) (4,660 ) HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 208 1,945 321 Other plans (440 ) (642 ) (275 ) Healthcare plans (154 ) (61 ) (112 ) Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses1 (5 ) 25 6 Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income (391 ) 1,267 (60 ) At 31 December2 (3,844 ) (3,453 ) (4,720 ) 1 Excludes exchange loss of US$4m (2011: US$4m loss; 2010: US$6m gain) 2 Includes cumulative movements related to the limit on plan surpluses. This limit was US$19m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$18m; 2010: US$47m) HSBC pension plans 2012 2011 2010 Number of plans worldwide 225 230 218 % % % Percentage of HSBC employees: – enrolled in defined contribution plans 62 64 63 – enrolled in defined benefit plans 23 25 27 – covered by HSBC pension plans 85 89 90 HSBC has been progressively offering all new employees membership of defined contribution plans. The majority of the Group’s defined benefit plans are funded plans. The assets of most of the larger plans are held in trusts or similar funds separate from HSBC. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the plans are situated. At 31 December 2012, the present values of the defined benefit obligations of The HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme was US$26,475m (2011: US$24,367m), The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme was US$1,476m (2011:US$1,523m) and the HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan was US$4,374m (2011: US$3,895m). These defined benefit pension plans covered 12% of HSBC’s employees and represented 82% of the Group’s present value of defined benefit obligations. The Pension Risk section on page 246 and the Appendix to Risk on page 252 contain details about the characteristics and risks and amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows and policies and practices associated with these three schemes. The determinations described in the Pension Risk section on page 246 for actuarial funding valuation purposes are based on different methods and assumptions from those used for financial reporting purposes, and as a result should neither be compared nor related to other determinations included in these financial statements. There is no actuarial deficit in the Principal plan. HSBC healthcare benefits plans HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Bermuda, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded. The majority of post-employment healthcare benefits plans are defined benefit plans and are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated. At 31 December 2012, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of HSBC’s healthcare benefit plans was US$1,261m (2011: US$1,091m). In aggregate, healthcare benefit plans comprised 3% of HSBC’s present value of defined benefit obligations. 414 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Defined benefit pension plans Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Fair value of plan assets At 1 January 26,604 22,236 8,232 7,559 Expected return on plan assets 1,245 1,325 486 481 Contributions by HSBC 238 600 475 565 – normal 238 314 191 176 – special – 286 284 389 Contributions by employees 37 34 20 22 Experience gains 680 3,426 410 200 Benefits paid (907 ) (803 ) (630 ) (495 ) Assets distributed on settlements – – (16 ) (25 ) Exchange differences 1,195 (214 ) 38 (75 ) At 31 December 29,092 26,604 9,015 8,232 Present value of defined benefit obligations At 1 January (24,367 ) (22,858 ) (10,680 ) (9,785 ) Current service cost (236 ) (251 ) (310 ) (299 ) Interest cost (1,178 ) (1,233 ) (404 ) (456 ) Contributions by employees (36 ) (34 ) (21 ) (22 ) Actuarial losses (472 ) (1,481 ) (850 ) (842 ) Benefits paid 906 804 743 569 Past service cost – vested immediately – 587 (47 ) (40 ) Past service cost – unvested benefits – – 2 2 Reduction in liabilities resulting from curtailments – – 11 59 Liabilities extinguished on settlements – – 26 29 Exchange differences (1,092 ) 99 (70 ) 105 At 31 December (26,475 ) (24,367 ) (11,600 ) (10,680 ) Funded (26,475 ) (24,367 ) (10,956 ) (10,074 ) Unfunded – – (644 ) (606 ) Effect of limit on plan surpluses – – (19 ) (18 ) Unrecognised past service cost – – 19 21 Net asset/(liability) 2,617 2,237 (2,585 ) (2,445 ) Retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet – – (2,814 ) (2,705 ) Retirement benefit assets recognised in the balance sheet(within ‘Other assets’) 2,617 2,237 229 260 Plan assets of the Group’s pension schemes included US$20m (2011: US$45m) of equities and no bonds (2011: nil) issued by HSBC and US$292m (2011: US$1,228m) of other assets placed or transacted with HSBC. The fair value of plan assets included derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc by the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme with a positive fair value of US$5,226m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$5,560m positive fair value) and US$328m positive fair value (2011: US$297m positive fair value) in respect of the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. Further details of these swap arrangements are included in Note 44. In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) special contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value, determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. The special contributions of US$284m to other plans include an additional contribution of US$181m to the HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan which was made to maintain a minimum funding level. The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 31 December 2012 was a positive return of US$2,784m (2011: positive US$5,432m). HSBC expects to make US$604m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2013. Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: 415 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Benefits expected to be paid from plans 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018-2022 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 745 776 810 849 899 5,411 Other plans 556 541 557 577 624 3,595 Total (income)/expense recognised in the income statement in ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 236 251 252 310 299 300 Interest cost 1,178 1,233 1,148 404 456 438 Expected return on plan assets (1,245 ) (1,325 ) (1,092 ) (486 ) (481 ) (437 ) Past service cost – (587 ) – 51 45 12 Gains on curtailments – – – (11 ) (59 ) (151 ) Gains on settlements – – – (10 ) (4 ) (2 ) Total (income)/expense 169 (428 ) 308 258 256 160 Summary HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligation (26,475 ) (24,367 ) (22,858 ) (21,523 ) (15,257 ) Fair value of plan assets 29,092 26,604 22,236 17,701 14,865 Net surplus/(deficit) 2,617 2,237 (622 ) (3,822 ) (392 ) Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 880 (383 ) (327 ) (234 ) (49 ) Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 680 3,426 1,772 871 (2,861 ) Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial assumptions (1,352 ) (1,098 ) (1,124 ) (4,329 ) 3,081 Total net actuarial gains/(losses) 208 1,945 321 (3,692 ) 171 Other plans 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligation (11,600 ) (10,680 ) (9,785 ) (9,109 ) (8,787 ) Fair value of plan assets 9,015 8,232 7,559 6,822 6,024 Net deficit (2,585 ) (2,448 ) (2,226 ) (2,287 ) (2,763 ) Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 56 (78 ) (73 ) 20 (52 ) Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 410 200 394 65 (1,452 ) Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial assumptions (906 ) (764 ) (596 ) 94 (306 ) Total net actuarial gains/(losses) (440 ) (642 ) (275 ) 179 (1,810 ) 416 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s obligations for the largest defined benefit pension plans at 31 December for each period, and used as the basis for measuring periodic costs under the plans in the following periods, were as follows: Principal actuarial assumptions Discountrate % Inflation rate % Rate of increase for pensions % Rate of pay increase % At 31 December 2012 UK1 4.50 3.10 2.90 3.60 Hong Kong 0.60 n/a n/a 4.00 US 3.95 2.50 n/a 2.75 At 31 December 2011 UK1 4.80 3.20 3.10 3.70 Hong Kong 1.47 n/a n/a 5.00 US 4.60 2.50 n/a 2.75 At 31 December 2010 UK1 5.40 3.70 3.50 4.20 Hong Kong 2.85 n/a n/a 5.00 US 5.41 2.50 n/a 2.75 1 Rate of increase for pensions in the UK is for pensions in payment only, capped at 5%. Deferred pensions are projected to increase in line with the CPI, capped at 5%. For 2010, deferred pensions were projected to increase in line with the RPI, capped at 5%. HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality (AA rated or equivalent) debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations. In countries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds, government bond yields have been used. The yield curve has been extrapolated where the term of the liabilities is longer than the duration of available bonds and the discount rate used then takes into account the term of the liabilities and the shape of the yield curve. When determining the discount rate with reference to a bond index, an appropriate index for the specific region has been used. Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 Mortality table Life expectancy at age 65 for a male member currently: Life expectancy at age 65 for a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 At 31 December 2012 UK SAPS S11 23.9 25.6 25.4 27.7 Hong Kong2 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a US RP 2000 fully generational3 21.1 23.1 23.2 25.0 At 31 December 2011 UK SAPS MC4 22.5 24.4 23.5 25.4 Hong Kong2 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a US RP 2000 fully generational3 19.4 20.9 21.3 22.2 1 SAPS S1 with Continuous Mortality Investigation 2011 improvements and a 1.25% long-term allowance improvement. Light table with 1.01 rating for male pensioners and 1.02 rating for female pensioners. 2 The significant plans in Hong Kong are lump sum plans which do not use a post-retirement mortality table. 3 The projections scale applied to the mortality rates has changed from AA at 31 December 2011 to BB at 31 December 2012, to better reflect observed mortality improvements. 4 SAPS MC projections with 1% minimum improvement beyond 2002. Light table with 1.08 rating for male pensioners and standard table with 1.06 rating for female pensioners. 417 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Expected rates of return 2012 2011 Expected rates of return1% Value US$m Expected rates of return1% ValueUS$m HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Fair value of plan assets 29,092 26,604 Equities 7.1 3,899 7.2 3,190 Bonds 4.0 22,258 4.1 20,737 Property 6.7 1,583 6.7 1,524 Other 3.1 1,352 2.8 1,153 Other plans Fair value of plan assets 9,015 8,232 Equities 7.9 2,688 7.7 2,184 Bonds 4.1 4,963 4.7 4,659 Property 5.0 107 4.6 106 Other 3.6 1,257 4.0 1,283 1 The expected rates of return are used to measure the net defined benefit pension costs in each subsequent year, and weighted on the basis of the fair value of the plan assets. In 2013 the basis will change as described on page 386. The expected return on plan assets represents the best estimate of long-term future asset returns, which takes into account historical market returns plus additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates. Actuarial assumption sensitivities The discount rate is sensitive to changes in market conditions arising during the reporting period. The mortality rates used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile. The following table shows the effect of changes in these and the other key assumptions on the principal defined benefit pension plan: The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Discount rate Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase (1,191 ) (980 ) Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease 1,275 1,045 Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase1 (78 ) 2 Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease1 76 (2 ) Rate of inflation Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 881 1,026 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (842 ) (978 ) Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase1 48 57 Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease1 (47 ) (54 ) Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 719 876 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (692 ) (841 ) Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase1 36 43 Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease1 (34 ) (42 ) Rate of pay increase Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase 175 248 Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease (173 ) (240 ) Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase1 15 19 Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease1 (13 ) (15 ) Investment return Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase1 – (65 ) Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease1 – 67 Mortality Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 663 619 1 The change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease was calculated based on the requirements of IAS 19 revised, which will be adopted from 1 January 2013. The comparative numbers, which show the change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease, were calculated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(t). 418 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The effect of changes in the discount rate and in mortality rates on plans other than the principal plan Other plans 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change in defined benefit obligation at year end from a 25bps increase in discount rate (379 ) (325 ) Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase in discount rate1 (17 ) – Increase in defined benefit obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 174 144 1 The change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease was calculated based on the requirements of IAS 19 revised, which will be adopted from 1 January 2013. The comparative numbers, which show the change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease, were calculated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(t). HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2012 amounted to US$439m (2011: US$413m). The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2012 was 1,323 (2011: 1,212). Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the Trustees of the plan. Directors’ emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 were: 2012 US$000 2011 US$000 2010 US$000 Fees 5,435 5,108 3,597 Salaries and other emoluments 10,316 12,906 12,841 Annual incentives 13,983 12,516 14,294 Total 29,734 30,530 30,732 Vesting of long-term incentive awards 5,733 2,596 8,523 In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,171,796 (2011: US$1,166,580). The provision at 31 December 2012 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$19,285,971 (2011: US$18,006,894). During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$29,078 (2011: US$373,310). Discretionary annual incentives for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration Committee. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 are included in the ‘Directors’ Remuneration Report’ on pages 347 to 367. 8 Auditors’ remuneration 2012US$m 2011US$m 2010US$m Audit fees payable to KPMG1 47.2 48.8 49.1 Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities 1.4 1.9 2.3 Total auditors’ remuneration 48.6 50.7 51.4 1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit and audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation. The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Group’s principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates (together ‘KPMG’): 419 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit1 13.2 12.7 11.8 – relating to current year 12.8 12.4 11.8 – relating to prior year 0.4 0.3 – Fees for other services provided to HSBC 67.3 74.4 66.5 Audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries2 34.0 36.1 37.3 Audit-related assurance services3 23.6 25.7 20.8 Taxation-related services: – taxation compliance services 2.1 2.8 1.5 – taxation advisory services 1.3 1.5 0.9 Other assurance services 1.1 1.3 1.4 Other non-audit services4 5.2 7.0 4.6 Total fees payable 80.5 87.1 78.3 1 Fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. They include amounts payable for services relating to HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries consolidation returns which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion, with effect from 1 January 2012. Previously these fees were included in ‘Fees for other services provided to HSBC’. Comparative information has been updated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Fees for other services provided to HSBC’ and increased ‘Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit’ by US$11.0m in 2012 (2011: US$10.5m; 2010: US$9.4m). There was no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share following the change. 2 Fees payable for the statutory audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries financial statements. 3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews. 4 Including valuation and actuarial services, translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, review of financial models, advice on IT security and business continuity, corporate finance transactions and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures. No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, services related to litigation and recruitment and remuneration. Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG 2012 US$000 2011 US$000 2010 US$000 Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes 256 248 384 Taxation-related services – 11 – – taxation compliance services – – – – taxation advisory services – 11 – Total fees payable 256 259 384 No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: audit related assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology. In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$3.3m (2011: US$8.6m; 2010: US$14.9m) by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG. These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC. Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group. 420 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 9 Tax Tax charged to the income statement 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Current tax UK corporation tax 250 820 383 – for this year 60 462 404 – adjustments in respect of prior years 190 358 (21 ) Overseas tax1 5,560 4,255 3,328 – for this year 5,421 4,155 3,235 – adjustments in respect of prior years 139 100 93 5,810 5,075 3,711 Deferred tax (495 ) (1,147 ) 1,135 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (269 ) (1,178 ) 1,176 Effect of changes in tax rates 66 (3 ) 31 Adjustments in respect of prior years (292 ) 34 (72 ) Total tax charged to the income statement 5,315 3,928 4,846 1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,049m (2011: US$997m; 2010: US$962m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2011: 16.5%; 2010: 16.5%). Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate. Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs to the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2012 2011 2010 US$m % US$m % US$m % Profit before tax 20,649 21,872 19,037 Tax at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%; 2010: 28.0%) 5,057 24.5 5,796 26.5 5,330 28.0 Impact of differently taxed overseas profits (57 ) (0.3 ) (492 ) (2.2 ) (744 ) (3.9 ) Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities 37 0.2 495 2.3 – – Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised/(previously not recognised) 374 1.8 (923 ) (4.2 ) (6 ) – Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures (872 ) (4.3 ) (865 ) (4.0 ) (758 ) (4.0 ) Tax impact of intra-group transfer of subsidiary – – – – 1,216 6.4 Tax impact of disposal of Ping An (204 ) (1.0 ) – – – – Non taxable income and gains (542 ) (2.6 ) (613 ) (2.8 ) (700 ) (3.7 ) Permanent disallowables 1,092 5.3 467 2.1 355 1.9 Change in tax rates 78 0.4 (3 ) – 31 0.2 Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 581 2.8 267 1.2 224 1.2 Other items (229 ) (1.1 ) (201 ) (0.9 ) (102 ) (0.6 ) Total tax charged to the income statement 5,315 25.7 3,928 18.0 4,846 25.5 The effective tax rate for the year was 25.7% compared with 18.0% for 2011. The higher effective tax rate in 2012 reflects the non tax deductible effect of fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanction laws, together with the non-recognition of the tax benefit in respect of the accounting charge associated with negative fair value movements on own debt. The lower effective tax rate in 2011 included the benefit of deferred tax of US$0.9bn in respect of foreign tax credits in the US. The UK corporation tax rate applying to HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries was 24.5% (2011: 26.5%; 2010: 28%). The UK Government announced that the main rate of corporation tax for the year beginning 1 April 2012 will reduce from 26% to 24% to be followed by a 1% reduction to 23% for the year beginning 1 April 2013 and a further 2% reduction to 21% for the year beginning 1 April 2014. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 24% was substantively enacted in the first half of 2012 and this results in a weighted average rate of 24.5% for 2012 421 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) (2011: 26.5%). The reduction to 23% was enacted through the 2012 Finance Act in July and the reduction to 21% announced in the 2012 Autumn Statement is expected to be enacted through the 2013 Finance Act. It is not expected that the proposed future rate reductions will have a significant effect on the Group. The Group’s legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the Group operates. The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters. A substantial proportion of the material open issues related to the UK of which the principal matter concerned the application of the UK Controlled Foreign Company (‘CFC’) rules. Following further discussion with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, the CFC and certain other open UK issues have now been resolved. Deferred taxation The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle on a net basis. US Of the total net deferred tax assets of US$6.5bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$6.2bn), the net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the US was US$4.6bn (2011: US$5.2bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of no tax losses and tax credits (2011: US$1.2bn), deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$2.0bn (2011: US$2.7bn) and other temporary differences of US$2.6bn (2011: US$1.3bn). Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. The taxable gains on the disposal of the US branch network and Card and Retail Services business has resulted in a reduction in the amount of deferred tax assets related to carried forward tax losses and tax credits. This was offset in part by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities as a result of these disposals. On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC Holdings’ commitment to continue to invest sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets. Management projections of profits from the US operations are prepared for a 10-year period and include assumptions about future house prices and US economic conditions, including unemployment levels. The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances is projected to reduce over the 10-year period in line with the reduction in the Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio. As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBC’s US operations, management’s analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies to a greater extent on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support. The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to increase levels of taxable income. 422 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting balances within countries Retirement benefitsUS$m Loan impairment provisionsUS$m Unused tax losses and tax creditsUS$m Accelerated capital allowancesUS$m Available- for-sale investmentsUS$m Cash flow hedgesUS$m Share- based paymentsUS$m Assets leased to customersUS$m Revaluationof propertyUS$m FeeincomeUS$m OtherUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Assets 742 4,448 1,328 117 – 487 286 14 – – 1,709 9,131 Liabilities (107 ) – – – (557 ) (137 ) – (595 ) (227 ) (737 ) (563 ) (2,923 ) At 1 January 635 4,448 1,328 117 (557 ) 350 286 (581 ) (227 ) (737 ) 1,146 6,208 Acquisitions and disposals – – – – – – – – – – 3 3 Income statement (313 ) (590 ) (692 ) 168 (270 ) (9 ) (52 ) 569 111 616 957 495 Other comprehensive income 174 – (33 ) – (395 ) (90 ) – – – – – (344 ) Equity – – – – – – 45 – – – – 45 Foreign exchange and other adjustments (27 ) 54 14 (50 ) 19 (10 ) 26 24 19 16 (31 ) 54 At 31 December 469 3,912 617 235 (1,203 ) 241 305 12 (97 ) (105 ) 2,075 6,461 Assets 469 3,912 617 289 – 285 305 184 – – 2,965 9,026 Liabilities – – – (54 ) (1,203 ) (44 ) – (172 ) (97 ) (105 ) (890 ) (2,565 ) 2011 Assets 1,538 4,799 351 109 11 352 241 – – – 957 8,358 Liabilities – – (3 ) (126 ) (135 ) (88 ) – (707 ) (225 ) (756 ) (400 ) (2,440 ) At 1 January 1,538 4,799 348 (17 ) (124 ) 264 241 (707 ) (225 ) (756 ) 557 5,918 Acquisitions and disposals 3 – 11 – (3 ) (5 ) 1 – 22 – (6 ) 23 Income statement (437 ) (224 ) 945 137 10 14 1 93 (36 ) 17 627 1,147 Other comprehensive income (322 ) – – – (533 ) 53 – – – – – (802 ) Equity – – – – – – 27 – – – – 27 Foreign exchange and other adjustments (147 ) (127 ) 24 (3 ) 93 24 16 33 12 2 (32 ) (105 ) At 31 December 635 4,448 1,328 117 (557 ) 350 286 (581 ) (227 ) (737 ) 1,146 6,208 Assets 742 4,448 1,328 117 – 487 286 14 – – 1,709 9,131 Liabilities (107 ) – – – (557 ) (137 ) – (595 ) (227 ) (737 ) (563 ) (2,923 ) 423 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Brazil The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Brazil was US$0.9bn (2011: US$0.7bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total arose primarily in relation to deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances. Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur in periods subsequent to those in which they are recognised for accounting purposes and, as a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax assets move in line with the impairment allowance balance. Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within 24 months of accounting recognition. On the evidence available, including historic levels of profitability, management projections of income and the state of the Brazilian economy, it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets when deductible for tax purposes. There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in Brazil. Mexico The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Mexico was US$0.6bn (2011: US$0.5bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions for impaired loans, including losses realised on sales of impaired loans. The annual deduction for loan impairments is capped under Mexican legislation at 2.5% of the average qualifying loan portfolio. The balance is carried forward to future years without expiry but with the annual deduction subject to the 2.5% cap. On the evidence available, including historic and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, it is anticipated that the business will realise these assets within the next 15 years. The projections assume that loan impairment rates will remain at levels consistently below the annual 2.5% cap over the medium term. There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in Mexico. UK The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the UK was US$0.3bn (2011: liability US$0.2bn). The deferred tax assets included in this total relate primarily to the carry forward of tax losses. On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability and management projections of future income it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to recover the deferred tax asset over the next 12 months. Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$16.6bn (2011: US$14.7bn). These amounts included unused state losses arising in our US operations of US$12.6bn (2011: US$12.5bn). Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$3.9bn (2011: US$2.4bn) had no expiry date, US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.1bn) was scheduled to expire within 10 years (2011: 10 years) and the remaining will expire after 10 years. Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise. No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2012 and 2011 temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse. Deferred tax of US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn) has, however, been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract withholding tax. 424 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Movement of deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances Short-termtimingdifferences Available-for-saleinvestments Fair valuedassets andliabilities Share-basedpayments Unusedtaxlosses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 At 1 January – – (4 ) 46 9 40 91 Income statement 2 – – (15 ) (7 ) (40 ) (60 ) Other comprehensive income – – (27 ) – – – (27 ) Equity – – – – 10 – 10 At 31 December 2 – (31 ) 31 12 – 14 2011 At 1 January – 1 (21 ) 61 16 – 57 Income statement – (1 ) – (15 ) (7 ) 40 17 Other comprehensive income – – 17 – – – 17 At 31 December – – (4 ) 46 9 40 91 The amount of unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$1,775m (2011: US$8m) of which US$9m (2011: US$8m) relate to capital losses. The losses have no expiry date. 10 Dividends Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 2012 2011 2010 PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m PershareUS$ TotalUS$m Settled in scripUS$m Dividends declared on ordinary shares In respect of previous year: – fourth interim dividend 0.14 2,535 259 0.12 2,119 1,130 0.10 1,733 838 In respect of current year: – first interim dividend 0.09 1,633 748 0.09 1,601 204 0.08 1,394 746 – second interim dividend 0.09 1,646 783 0.09 1,603 178 0.08 1,402 735 – third interim dividend 0.09 1,655 639 0.09 1,605 720 0.08 1,408 205 0.41 7,469 2,429 0.39 6,928 2,232 0.34 5,937 2,524 Quarterly dividends on preference shares classified as equity March dividend 15.50 22 15.50 22 15.50 22 June dividend 15.50 23 15.50 23 15.50 23 September dividend 15.50 22 15.50 22 15.50 22 December dividend 15.50 23 15.50 23 15.50 23 62.00 90 62.00 90 62.00 90 Quarterly coupons on capital securities classified as equity1 2012 2011 2010 Per share Total Per share Total Per share Total US$ US$m US$ US$m US$ US$m January coupon 0.508 44 0.508 44 0.508 44 March coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 – – April coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 June coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 – – July coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 September coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.450 68 October coupon 0.508 45 0.508 45 0.508 45 December coupon 0.500 76 0.500 76 0.500 76 4.032 483 4.032 483 2.982 323 1 HSBC Holdings issued Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities of US$3,800m in June 2010 and US$2,200m in April 2008, which are classified as equity under IFRSs. 425 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$3,327m. The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 8 May 2013 to holders of record on 21 March 2013 on the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register and 22 March 2013 on the Principal Register in the UK or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2012. On 15 January 2013, HSBC paid a further coupon on the capital securities of US$0.508 per security, a distribution of US$44m. No liability is recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 in respect of this coupon payment. 11 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. Diluted earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares. Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 14,027 16,797 13,159 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity (90 ) (90 ) (90 ) Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity (483 ) (483 ) (323 ) Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 13,454 16,224 12,746 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2012 2011 2010 ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) Per share US$ ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) PershareUS$ ProfitUS$m Numberof shares(millions) PershareUS$ Basic1 13,454 18,125 0.74 16,224 17,700 0.92 12,746 17,404 0.73 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 146 222 229 – Savings-related Share Option Plan 23 45 55 – Other plans 123 177 174 Diluted1 13,454 18,271 0.74 16,224 17,922 0.91 12,746 17,633 0.72 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted). The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excluded 103m employee share options that were anti-dilutive (2011: 151m; 2010: 150m). 12 Segmental analysis HSBC’s operating segments are organised into six geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa (‘MENA’), North America and Latin America. Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board. Information provided to GMB to make decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, operating segments is measured in accordance with IFRSs. The financial information shown below includes the effects of intra-HSBC transactions between operating segments which are conducted on an arm’s length basis and are eliminated in arriving at the total. Shared costs are included in operating segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. 426 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Products and services HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its six geographical regions. The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business. • Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’) offers a broad range of products and services to meet the personal banking and wealth management needs of individual customers. Typically, customer offerings include personal banking products (current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services) and wealth management services (insurance and investment products, global asset management services and financial planning services). • Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small and medium sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and investments. We also offer our customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, for example Global Banking & Markets (‘GB&M’) which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services. • GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including financing, advisory and transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, money markets and securities services, and principal investment activities. • Global Private Banking (‘GPB’) provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with complex and international needs. Financial information In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders’ funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures. 427 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Profit/(loss) for the year EuropeUS$m Hong KongUS$m Rest of Asia- PacificUS$m MENAUS$m North AmericaUS$m Latin AmericaUS$m Intra- HSBC itemsUS$m TotalUS$m 2012 Net interest income 10,394 5,316 5,391 1,470 8,117 6,984 – 37,672 Net fee income 6,169 3,335 2,083 595 2,513 1,735 – 16,430 Net trading income/(expense) 2,707 1,463 1,053 390 507 971 – 7,091 Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An – – 3,012 – 4,012 – – 7,024 Other income (1,662 ) 2,308 2,045 (25 ) (456 ) 1,261 (3,358 ) 113 Net operating income1 17,608 12,422 13,584 2,430 14,693 10,951 (3,358 ) 68,330 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (1,921 ) (74 ) (436 ) (286 ) (3,457 ) (2,137 ) – (8,311 ) Net operating income 15,687 12,348 13,148 2,144 11,236 8,814 (3,358 ) 60,019 Employee compensation and benefits (8,070 ) (2,572 ) (3,140 ) (652 ) (3,243 ) (2,814 ) – (20,491 ) General and administrative expenses (10,059 ) (1,860 ) (2,433 ) (459 ) (5,413 ) (3,117 ) 3,358 (19,983 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (597 ) (236 ) (191 ) (44 ) (195 ) (221 ) – (1,484 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (369 ) (180 ) (42 ) (11 ) (89 ) (278 ) – (969 ) Total operating expenses (19,095 ) (4,848 ) (5,806 ) (1,166 ) (8,940 ) (6,430 ) 3,358 (42,927 ) Operating profit (3,408 ) 7,500 7,342 978 2,296 2,384 – 17,092 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures (6 ) 82 3,106 372 3 – – 3,557 Profit before tax (3,414 ) 7,582 10,448 1,350 2,299 2,384 – 20,649 Tax income/(expense) (173 ) (1,095 ) (1,616 ) (254 ) (1,313 ) (864 ) – (5,315 ) Profit for the year (3,587 ) 6,487 8,832 1,096 986 1,520 – 15,334 2011 Net interest income 11,001 4,691 5,102 1,432 11,480 6,956 – 40,662 Net fee income 6,236 3,097 2,111 627 3,308 1,781 – 17,160 Net trading income/(expense) 2,161 1,189 1,658 482 (362 ) 1,378 – 6,506 Other income 4,848 1,705 1,842 66 1,574 1,338 (3,421 ) 7,952 Net operating income1 24,246 10,682 10,713 2,607 16,000 11,453 (3,421 ) 72,280 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (2,512 ) (156 ) (267 ) (293 ) (7,016 ) (1,883 ) – (12,127 ) Net operating income 21,734 10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570 (3,421 ) 60,153 Employee compensation and benefits (7,621 ) (2,610 ) (3,179 ) (659 ) (3,928 ) (3,169 ) – (21,166 ) General and administrative expenses (8,473 ) (1,724 ) (2,378 ) (458 ) (4,404 ) (3,443 ) 3,421 (17,459 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (581 ) (245 ) (198 ) (36 ) (261 ) (249 ) – (1,570 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (394 ) (179 ) (51 ) (6 ) (326 ) (394 ) – (1,350 ) Total operating expenses (17,069 ) (4,758 ) (5,806 ) (1,159 ) (8,919 ) (7,255 ) 3,421 (41,545 ) Operating profit 4,665 5,768 4,640 1,155 65 2,315 – 18,608 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 6 55 2,831 337 35 – – 3,264 Profit before tax 4,671 5,823 7,471 1,492 100 2,315 – 21,872 Tax income/(expense) (1,589 ) (1,043 ) (1,315 ) (266 ) 958 (673 ) – (3,928 ) Profit for the year 3,082 4,780 6,156 1,226 1,058 1,642 – 17,944 428 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Europe Hong Kong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA North America Latin America Intra- HSBC items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2010 Net interest income 11,250 4,246 3,828 1,367 12,439 6,311 – 39,441 Net fee income 6,371 2,962 1,932 677 3,664 1,749 – 17,355 Net trading income 2,863 1,312 1,618 370 314 733 – 7,210 Other income/(expense) 2,266 1,682 1,854 (4 ) 630 938 (3,125 ) 4,241 Net operating income1 22,750 10,202 9,232 2,410 17,047 9,731 (3,125 ) 68,247 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (3,020 ) (114 ) (439 ) (627 ) (8,295 ) (1,544 ) – (14,039 ) Net operating income 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125 ) 54,208 Employee compensation and benefits (7,875 ) (2,341 ) (2,719 ) (579 ) (3,672 ) (2,650 ) – (19,836 ) General and administrative expenses (6,499 ) (1,686 ) (2,181 ) (450 ) (4,179 ) (3,286 ) 3,125 (15,156 ) Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (719 ) (237 ) (189 ) (42 ) (288 ) (238 ) – (1,713 ) Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (352 ) (167 ) (54 ) (7 ) (183 ) (220 ) – (983 ) Total operating expenses (15,445 ) (4,431 ) (5,143 ) (1,078 ) (8,322 ) (6,394 ) 3,125 (37,688 ) Operating profit 4,285 5,657 3,650 705 430 1,793 – 16,520 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 17 35 2,252 187 24 2 – 2,517 Profit before tax 4,302 5,692 5,902 892 454 1,795 – 19,037 Tax income/(expense) (1,006 ) (987 ) (962 ) (138 ) (1,180 ) (573 ) – (4,846 ) Profit/(loss) for the year 3,296 4,705 4,940 754 (726 ) 1,222 – 14,191 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 429 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other information about the profit/(loss) for the year Europe Hong Kong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA North America Latin America Intra- HSBC items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Net operating income 15,687 12,348 13,148 2,144 11,236 8,814 (3,358 ) 60,019 External 14,484 11,233 12,150 2,169 11,109 8,874 – 60,019 Inter-segment 1,203 1,115 998 (25 ) 127 (60 ) (3,358 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 966 416 233 55 363 499 – 2,532 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 2,329 105 586 361 3,587 2,489 – 9,457 Impairment of financial investments 420 (21 ) 83 1 32 4 – 519 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives (3,091 ) – (4 ) (13 ) (1,219 ) – – (4,327 ) Restructuring costs 292 21 107 27 219 94 – 760 2011 Net operating income 21,734 10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570 (3,421 ) 60,153 External 20,676 9,442 9,396 2,316 8,744 9,579 – 60,153 Inter-segment 1,058 1,084 1,050 (2 ) 240 (9 ) (3,421 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 975 424 249 42 802 643 – 3,135 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 3,085 202 453 395 7,147 2,271 – 13,553 Impairment of financial investments 705 55 25 13 9 1 – 808 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 3,180 – 4 10 967 – – 4,161 Restructuring costs 357 47 34 27 73 259 – 797 2010 Net operating income 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125 ) 54,208 External 18,881 9,170 7,728 1,774 8,504 8,151 – 54,208 Inter-segment 849 918 1,065 9 248 36 (3,125 ) – Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,071 404 243 49 576 458 – 2,801 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 3,303 169 615 684 8,476 1,812 – 15,059 Impairment of financial investments 33 41 4 5 21 1 – 105 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives (365 ) (2 ) (2 ) – 111 – – (258 ) Restructuring costs 86 15 36 5 13 3 – 158 430 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Balance sheet information Europe Hong Kong Rest of Asia- Pacific MENA North America Latin America Intra- HSBC items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Loans and advances to customers (net) 463,440 173,613 138,119 28,086 140,756 53,609 – 997,623 Interests in associates and joint ventures 178 224 15,085 2,262 85 – – 17,834 Total assets 1,389,240 518,334 342,269 62,605 490,247 131,277 (241,434 ) 2,692,538 Customer accounts 555,009 346,208 183,621 39,583 149,037 66,556 – 1,340,014 Total liabilities 1,327,487 496,640 308,815 53,498 450,480 113,923 (241,434 ) 2,509,409 Capital expenditure incurred1 925 336 208 102 248 458 – 2,277 At 31 December 2011 Loans and advances to customers (net) 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 – 940,429 Interests in associates and joint ventures 150 196 17,916 2,036 101 – – 20,399 Total assets 1,281,945 473,024 317,816 57,464 504,302 144,889 (223,861 ) 2,555,579 Customer accounts 493,404 315,345 174,012 36,422 155,982 78,760 – 1,253,925 Total liabilities 1,224,386 458,179 288,485 49,005 464,990 128,302 (223,861 ) 2,389,486 Capital expenditure incurred1 1,177 432 207 29 342 951 – 3,138 At 31 December 2010 Loans and advances to customers (net) 435,799 140,691 108,731 24,626 190,532 57,987 – 958,366 Interests in associates and joint ventures 186 207 15,035 1,661 104 5 – 17,198 Total assets 1,249,527 429,565 278,062 52,757 492,487 139,938 (187,647 ) 2,454,689 Customer accounts 491,563 297,484 158,155 33,511 158,486 88,526 – 1,227,725 Total liabilities 1,189,996 422,101 246,989 45,379 459,301 123,655 (187,647 ) 2,299,774 Capital expenditure incurred1 865 836 168 46 774 788 – 3,477 1 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. Excludes assets acquired as part of business combinations and goodwill. 431 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Other financial information Net operating income by global business RBWM1 CMB GB&M1 GPB Other2 Intra-HSBCitems Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012 Net operating income3 33,861 16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332 (5,859 ) 68,330 External 31,980 17,295 20,410 2,413 (3,768 ) – 68,330 Internal 1,881 (744 ) (2,137 ) 759 6,100 (5,859 ) – 2011 Net operating income3 33,533 15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145 (6,358 ) 72,280 External 32,024 15,362 19,881 2,207 2,806 – 72,280 Internal 1,509 249 (2,824 ) 1,085 6,339 (6,358 ) – 2010 Net operating income3 33,611 13,834 18,912 3,093 4,660 (5,863 ) 68,247 External 32,056 13,224 21,812 2,182 (1,027 ) – 68,247 Internal 1,555 610 (2,900 ) 911 5,687 (5,863 ) – 1 With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from Global Banking and Markets to Retail Banking and Wealth Management. 2 The main items reported in the ‘Other’ category are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, movements in fair value of own debt and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The ‘Other’ category also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units. 3 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. The table previously reported net operating income after loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. Information by country 2012 2011 2010 External net operating income1,2 US$m Non- current assets3 US$m External net operating income1,2 US$m Non- current assets3 US$m External net operating income1,2 US$m Non- current assets3 US$m UK 9,149 18,391 16,058 21,414 14,171 19,661 Hong Kong 11,307 11,657 9,600 6,257 9,282 4,630 USA 11,779 6,718 12,972 3,830 14,032 6,669 France 2,881 11,074 2,747 10,790 3,345 10,914 Brazil 6,395 2,017 6,637 2,149 5,408 2,025 Other countries 26,819 30,078 24,266 31,590 22,009 29,747 68,330 79,935 72,280 76,030 68,247 73,646 1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. 2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. The table previously reported net operating income after loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 3 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures and certain other assets expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost. The summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading. 432 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Analysis of financial assets and liabilities be measurement basis HSBC At 31 December 2012 Held fortradingUS$m Designatedat fair valueUS$m Held-to-maturitysecuritiesUS$m Available-for-salesecuritiesUS$m Financialassets andliabilities atamortisedcost US$m Derivativesdesignatedas fair valuehedginginstrumentsUS$m Derivativesdesignatedas cash flowhedginginstrumentsUS$m TotalUS$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 141,532 – – 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks – – – – 7,303 – – 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness – – – – 22,743 – – 22,743 Trading assets 408,811 – – – – – – 408,811 Financial assets designated at fair value – 33,582 – – – – – 33,582 Derivatives 353,803 – – – – 199 3,448 357,450 Loans and advances to banks – – – – 152,546 – – 152,546 Loans and advances to customers – – – – 997,623 – – 997,623 Financial investments – – 23,413 397,688 – – – 421,101 Assets held for sale 9 72 – 10,700 7,341 – – 18,122 Other assets – – – – 23,584 – – 23,584 Accrued income – – – – 8,540 – – 8,540 Total financial assets 762,623 33,654 23,413 408,388 1,361,212 199 3,448 2,592,937 Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation – – – – 22,742 – – 22,742 Deposits by banks – – – – 107,429 – – 107,429 Customer accounts – – – – 1,340,014 – – 1,340,014 Items in the course of transmission to other banks – – – – 7,138 – – 7,138 Trading liabilities 304,563 – – – – – – 304,563 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 87,720 – – – – – 87,720 Derivatives 352,195 – – – – 4,450 2,241 358,886 Debt securities in issue – – – – 119,461 – – 119,461 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 8 23 – – 3,772 – – 3,803 Other liabilities – – – – 32,417 – – 32,417 Accruals – – – – 11,663 – – 11,663 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 29,479 – – 29,479 Total financial liabilities 656,766 87,743 – – 1,674,115 4,450 2,241 2,425,315 433 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Analysis of financial assets and liabilities be measurement basis (continued) HSBC At 31 December 2011 Held fortradingUS$m Designatedat fair valueUS$m Held-to-maturitysecuritiesUS$m Available-for-salesecuritiesUS$m Financialassets andliabilities atamortisedcost US$m Derivativesdesignatedas fair valuehedginginstrumentsUS$m Derivativesdesignatedas cash flowhedginginstrumentsUS$m TotalUS$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks – – – – 129,902 – – 129,902 Items in the course of collection from other banks – – – – 8,208 – – 8,208 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922 Trading assets 330,451 – – – – – – 330,451 Financial assets designated at fair value – 30,856 – – – – – 30,856 Derivatives 342,914 – – – – 446 3,019 346,379 Loans and advances to banks – – – – 180,987 – – 180,987 Loans and advances to customers – – – – 940,429 – – 940,429 Financial investments – – 21,199 378,845 – – – 400,044 Assets held for sale 308 – – 482 37,018 – – 37,808 Other assets – – – – 24,040 – – 24,040 Accrued income – – – – 8,951 – – 8,951 Total financial assets 673,673 30,856 21,199 379,327 1,350,457 446 3,019 2,458,977 Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922 Deposits by banks – – – – 112,822 – – 112,822 Customer accounts – – – – 1,253,925 – – 1,253,925 Items in the course of transmission to other banks – – – – 8,745 – – 8,745 Trading liabilities 265,192 – – – – – – 265,192 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 85,724 – – – – – 85,724 Derivatives 338,788 – – – – 4,332 2,260 345,380 Debt securities in issue – – – – 131,013 – – 131,013 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 803 16 – – 21,181 – – 22,000 Other liabilities – – – – 25,911 – – 25,911 Accruals – – – – 11,799 – – 11,799 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 30,606 – – 30,606 Total financial liabilities 604,783 85,740 – – 1,616,924 4,332 2,260 2,314,039 434 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Held for trading Designatedat fair value Loans andreceivables Available-for-salesecurities Other financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand – – – – 353 353 Derivatives 3,768 – – – – 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings – – 41,675 – – 41,675 Financial investments – – – 1,208 – 1,208 Other assets – – – – 4 4 Total financial assets 3,768 – 41,675 1,208 357 47,008 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings – – – – 12,856 12,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 23,195 – – – 23,195 Derivatives 760 – – – – 760 Debt securities in issue – – – – 2,691 2,691 Accruals – – – – 605 605 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 11,907 11,907 Total financial liabilities 760 23,195 – – 28,059 52,014 At 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand – – – – 316 316 Derivatives 3,568 – – – – 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings – – 28,048 – – 28,048 Financial investments – – – 1,078 – 1,078 Other assets – – – – 1 1 Total financial assets 3,568 – 28,048 1,078 317 33,011 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings – – – – 2,479 2,479 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – 21,151 – – – 21,151 Derivatives 1,067 – – – – 1,067 Debt securities in issue – – – – 2,613 2,613 Other liabilities – – – – 885 885 Accruals – – – – 575 575 Subordinated liabilities – – – – 12,450 12,450 Total financial liabilities 1,067 21,151 – – 19,002 41,220 435 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 14 Trading assets 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Trading assets: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 305,312 235,916 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 103,499 94,535 408,811 330,451 Treasury and other eligible bills 26,282 34,309 Debt securities 144,677 130,487 Equity securities 41,634 21,002 Trading assets at fair value 212,593 185,798 Loans and advances to banks 78,271 75,525 Loans and advances to customers 117,947 69,128 408,811 330,451 Trading assets valued at fair value1 Fair value 2012 US$m 2011 US$m US Treasury and US Government agencies2 28,405 15,686 UK Government 11,688 12,917 Hong Kong Government 6,228 8,844 Other government 91,498 90,816 Asset-backed securities3 2,896 2,913 Corporate debt and other securities 30,244 33,620 Equity securities 41,634 21,002 212,593 185,798 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$20,274m (2011: US$24,956m), of which US$3,469m (2011: US$5,269m) are guaranteed by various governments. 2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. Trading assets listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible bills Debt securities Equitysecurities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value at 31 December 2012 Listed on a recognised exchange1 606 82,732 39,945 123,283 Unlisted2 25,676 61,945 1,689 89,310 26,282 144,677 41,634 212,593 Fair value at 31 December 2011 Listed on a recognised exchange1 789 78,760 19,994 99,543 Unlisted2 33,520 51,727 1,008 86,255 34,309 130,487 21,002 185,798 1 Included within listed investments are US$2,828m (2011: US$2,836m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for which there is a liquid market. Loans and advances to banks held for trading 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Reverse repos 45,015 45,490 Settlement accounts 6,324 7,555 Stock borrowing 5,361 5,531 Other 21,571 16,949 78,271 75,525 436 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Loans and advances to customers held for trading 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Reverse repos 73,666 34,358 Settlement accounts 8,186 5,804 Stock borrowing 10,710 3,928 Other 25,385 25,038 117,947 69,128 15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. The use of assumptions and estimation in valuing financial instruments is described on page 56. Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation1 Valuation techniques Quoted market price Level 1 Using observable inputs Level 2 With significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Assets Trading assets 198,843 205,590 4,378 408,811 Financial assets designated at fair value 25,575 7,594 413 33,582 Derivatives 1,431 352,960 3,059 357,450 Financial investments: available for sale 253,246 135,931 8,511 397,688 Liabilities Trading liabilities 116,550 180,543 7,470 304,563 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 10,703 77,017 – 87,720 Derivatives 1,506 354,375 3,005 358,886 At 31 December 2011 Assets Trading assets 180,043 145,628 4,780 330,451 Financial assets designated at fair value 22,496 7,644 716 30,856 Derivatives 1,262 340,668 4,449 346,379 Financial investments: available for sale 217,788 151,936 9,121 378,845 Liabilities Trading liabilities 98,208 159,157 7,827 265,192 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 27,461 57,696 567 85,724 Derivatives 1,991 340,260 3,129 345,380 1 The above table does not include financial instruments within the Assets held for sale and Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale categorisations. The increase in Level 1 trading assets and liabilities reflects an increase in equity securities and settlement account balances, the latter varying considerably in proportion with the level of trading activity. The increase in Level 2 assets reflects higher reverse repo balances used to cover short positions and an increase in repo balances contributed to the growth in Level 2 liabilities. As described on page 446, HSBC Holdings transferred financial liabilities designated at fair value from Level 1 to Level 2. There were no other material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the year. An analysis of the movements of Level 3 financial instruments is provided on page 447. 437 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk-taker. For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised. In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible. In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market information to validate the financial instrument’s fair value, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: • the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices; • the degree of similarity between financial instruments; • the degree of consistency between different sources; • the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data; • the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date; and • the manner in which the data was sourced. For fair values determined using a valuation model, the control framework may include, as applicable, development or validation by independent support functions of (i) the logic within valuation models; (ii) the inputs to those models; (iii) any adjustments required outside the valuation models; and (iv) where possible, model outputs. Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. The fair value governance structure is as follows: Determination of fair value Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: • Level 1 – quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. • Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable. • Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market. The fair values of financial instruments that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued. Where a financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market and it is part of a portfolio, the fair value of the portfolio is calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price. In the event that the market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used. The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid/offer spreads. The 438 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) bid/offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared with the price at which they would be willing to sell. In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the instrument requires additional work during the valuation process. Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their valuations, including interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates. For swaps with collateralised counterparties and in significant major currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that reflects the overnight interest rate (‘OIS discounting’). The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental. An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s inception profit (‘day 1 gain or loss’) or greater than 5% of the instrument’s carrying value is driven by unobservable inputs. ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for example, be used). In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned, where available. An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with interest rate derivatives. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer. Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities. Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value. The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes. Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount. Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model. The magnitude of fair value adjustments depends upon many entity-specific factors, and therefore fair value adjustments may not be comparable across the banking industry. HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments relate to GB&M. Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement. For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss. 439 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Type of adjustment Risk-related 2,013 1,899 Bid-offer 638 695 Uncertainty 142 154 Credit valuation adjustment 1,747 1,050 Debit valuation adjustment (518 ) – Other 4 – Model-related 162 567 Model limitation 161 567 Other 1 – Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) (Note 19) 181 200 2,356 2,666 The increase in credit valuation adjustment and debit valuation adjustment reflects a refinement in methodology, described on page 441. The decrease in model limitation adjustments reflects the inclusion of OIS discounting within the modelled value of many interest rate derivatives such that an adjustment is no longer required outside the model, in addition to market movements and the unwind or maturity of certain legacy credit structures. Risk-related adjustments Bid-offer IAS 39 requires that financial instruments are marked at bid or offer, as appropriate. Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the cost that would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the actual position. Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and/or the choice of model itself may be more subjective. In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model. Credit valuation adjustment The credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions. Debit valuation adjustment The debit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions. Model-related adjustments Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture all material market characteristics. Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions. In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted. As model development progresses, model limitations are addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed. 440 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) Inception profit adjustments are adopted where the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 388. An analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 454. Credit valuation adjustment/debit valuation adjustment methodology HSBC calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) and debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. The calculation of the monoline CVA is described on page 189. HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to the expected positive exposure of HSBC to the counterparty, and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC, and multiplying by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure. As set out on page 383, from 31 December 2012 HSBC revised its methodology for estimating the CVA and the DVA for derivatives. The CVA calculation maximises the use of PD based on relevant, observable market data, such as credit default swap (‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not available, PDs are estimated having regard to market practice, considering relevant data including both CDS indices and historical rating transition matrices. HSBC aligned its methodology for estimating the DVA to be consistent with that applied for the CVA as at 31 December 2012. Historically, HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate in respect of own credit risk and consequently did not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. For most products, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty, HSBC uses a simulation methodology to incorporate the range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty over the life of an instrument. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty. A standard loss given default assumption of 60% is generally adopted for developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures. Alternative loss given default assumptions may be adopted where both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this. For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts alternative methodologies. These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool or where such a mapping approach is not appropriate, a simplified methodology is used, generally following the same principles as the simulation methodology. The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than used in the simulation methodology described previously. The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk arises where the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default of the counterparty. Where there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within the valuation. With the exception of certain central clearing parties, HSBC includes all third-party counterparties in the CVA and DVA calculations and does not net these calculations across HSBC Group entities. 441 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 Assets Liabilities Availablefor saleUS$m Held fortradingUS$m Designatedat fair value through profit or lossUS$m DerivativesUS$m Held fortradingUS$m Designated at fair value through profit or lossUS$m DerivativesUS$m At 31 December 2012 Private equity including strategic investments 3,582 92 377 – – – – Asset-backed securities 2,288 652 – – – – – Loans held for securitisation – 547 – – – – – Structured notes – 23 – – 6,987 – – Derivatives with monolines – – – 630 – – – Other derivatives – – – 2,429 – – 3,005 Other portfolios 2,641 3,064 36 – 483 – – 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 At 31 December 2011 Private equity including strategic investments 4,565 88 432 – – – – Asset-backed securities 2,584 710 – – – – – Loans held for securitisation – 682 – – – – 7 Structured notes – 92 – – 7,340 – – Derivatives with monolines – – – 940 – – – Other derivatives – – – 3,509 – – 3,122 Other portfolios 1,972 3,208 284 – 487 567 – 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 Private equity and strategic investments HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership. Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required. For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature. Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and/or market data consensus providers when available. In the absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques. These techniques include discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities. Structured notes The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives. 442 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs principally comprised equity-linked structured notes, which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios. The notes are classified as Level 3 due to the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Derivatives OTC (i.e. non-exchange traded) derivatives are valued using valuation models. Valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla derivative products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. The valuation of derivatives with monolines is discussed on page 189. Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions. Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives. Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions. Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 financial instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Availablefor saleUS$m Held fortradingUS$m Designatedat fair value through profit or lossUS$m DerivativesUS$m Held fortradingUS$m Designated at fair value through profit or lossUS$m DerivativesUS$m 2012 At 1 January 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss (414 ) 356 10 (974 ) 319 – 10 Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income1 472 78 (32 ) 92 143 – 84 Purchases 1,738 942 113 – (368 ) – – New issuances – – – – 2,852 – – Sales (840 ) (1,408 ) (69 ) – – – – Settlements (367 ) (617 ) (25 ) (14 ) (1,604 ) – 18 Transfers out (2,944 ) (298 ) (350 ) (571 ) (1,901 ) (567 ) (291 ) Transfers in 1,745 545 50 77 202 – 55 At 31 December 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held on 31 December: 166 339 9 (1,294 ) 384 – (395 ) – net interest income 44 – – – – – – – trading income excluding net interest income – 326 – (1,294 ) 396 – (395 ) – net interest income on trading activities – 13 – – (12 ) – – – net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value – – 9 – – – – – dividend income 122 – – – – – – 443 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement in Level 3 financial instruments (continued) Assets Liabilities Available for sale US$m Held for trading US$m Designated at fair value through profit or loss US$m Derivatives US$m Held for trading US$m Designated at fair value through profit or loss US$m Derivatives US$m 2011 At 1 January 8,237 5,689 587 3,961 11,393 570 3,806 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 222 (330 ) 11 767 36 8 628 Total gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income1 (179 ) (12 ) (15 ) (16 ) 11 (11 ) – Purchases 1,858 1,483 242 – (1,843 ) – – New issuances – – – – 4,569 – – Sales (756 ) (2,578 ) (69 ) – – – – Settlements (1,088 ) (199 ) (7 ) (33 ) (1,528 ) – (1,083 ) Transfers out (1,891 ) (569 ) (173 ) (410 ) (5,266 ) – (608 ) Transfers in 2,718 1,296 140 180 455 – 386 At 31 December 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held on 31 December: 134 (237 ) 36 617 101 8 80 – net interest income 105 – – – – – – – trading income/(expense) excluding net interest income – (265 ) – 617 119 – 80 – net interest income/(expense) on trading activities – 28 – – (18 ) – – – net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value – – 36 – – 8 – – dividend income 29 – – – – – – 1 Included in ‘Available-for-sale investments: Fair value gains/losses’ and ‘Exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Available-for-sale securities: Purchases of Level 3 AFS assets relate principally to Emerging Market corporate bonds. Sales of Level 3 AFS assets relate principally to private equity disposals. Transfers in and out of Level 3 relate principally to ABS securities, and the excess of transfers out over transfers in reflects some improvement in ABS liquidity over the year. Derivatives: The reduction in Level 3 derivative assets predominantly reflected reductions in the fair value of legacy structured credit assets as credit spreads narrowed and the unwind or maturity of certain other structured derivatives. Trading liabilities: Movements in Level 3 trading liability balances primarily reflect issue and redemption of structured notes, particularly equity-linked notes. Transfers out reflect structured notes, particularly equity linked notes, becoming observable as their residual maturity decreased. Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of these fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in other comprehensive income Favourable changesUS$m UnfavourablechangesUS$m Favourable changesUS$m Unfavourable changesUS$m At 31 December 2012 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities1 465 (384 ) – – Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 41 (41 ) – – Financial investments: available for sale – – 680 (710 ) 506 (425 ) 680 (710 ) 444 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in other comprehensive income Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m At 31 December 2011 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities1 369 (436 ) – – Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 72 (72 ) – – Financial investments: available for sale – – 814 (818 ) 441 (508 ) 814 (818 ) 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed. In derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities greater pricing certainty has arisen during the year in respect of legacy structured credit assets, as narrowing credit spreads have reduced exposures. This has been offset by greater pricing uncertainty in some other areas, most notably in certain interest rate derivative products and the pricing of the derivative representing the forward sale of Ping An. The reduction in pricing uncertainty in available-for-sale securities reflects greater liquidity in the ABS market. Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in other comprehensive income Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m At 31 December 2012 Private equity investments 62 (62 ) 353 (353 ) Asset-backed securities 41 (27 ) 143 (139 ) Loans held for securitisation 3 (3 ) – – Structured notes 4 (5 ) – – Derivatives with monolines 36 (20 ) – – Other derivatives 320 (267 ) – – Other portfolios 40 (41 ) 184 (218 ) 506 (425 ) 680 (710 ) At 31 December 2011 Private equity investments 123 (83 ) 451 (451 ) Asset-backed securities 3 (3 ) 183 (175 ) Loans held for securitisation 4 (4 ) – – Structured notes 6 (6 ) – – Derivatives with monolines 76 (178 ) – – Other derivatives 145 (154 ) – – Other portfolios 84 (80 ) 180 (192 ) 441 (508 ) 814 (818 ) Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters using statistical techniques. When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually. In respect of private equity investments, in many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators. This may be determined with reference to multiples for comparable listed companies and includes discounts for marketability. For ABSs, the principal assumptions in the models are based on benchmark information about prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets. For leveraged finance, loans held for securitisation and derivatives with monolines, the principal assumption concerns the appropriate value to be attributed to the counterparty credit risk. This requires estimation of exposure at default, probability of default and recovery in the event of default. For loan transactions, assessment of exposure at default is straightforward. For derivative transactions, a future exposure profile is generated on the basis of current market data. 445 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Probabilities of default and recovery levels are estimated using available evidence, which may include financial information, historical experience, CDS spreads and consensus recovery levels. For structured notes and other derivatives, principal assumptions concern the value to be attributed to future volatility of asset values and the future correlation between asset values. These principal assumptions include credit volatilities and correlations used in the valuation of structured credit derivatives (including leveraged credit derivatives). For such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy method to derive a volatility or a correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, and/or an examination of historical levels. HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements: Bases of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Valuation techniques Quoted market price Level 1 US$m Using observable inputs Level 2 US$m With significant unobservable inputs Level 3 US$m Total US$m At 31 December 2012 Assets Derivatives – 3,768 – 3,768 Available for sale – 1,208 – 1,208 Liabilities Designated at fair value – 23,195 – 23,195 Derivatives – 760 – 760 At 31 December 2011 Assets Derivatives – 3,568 – 3,568 Available for sale – – 1,078 1,078 Liabilities Designated at fair value 17,196 3,955 – 21,151 Derivatives – 1,067 – 1,067 Liabilities designated at fair value: Transfers out of Level 1 were to bring these instruments in line with the classification methodology adopted for other corporate bonds within the Group. Available for sale securities: Transfers out of Level 3 reflect increased observability in prices and improved market liquidity for these financial investments. Financial instruments measured at fair value – Level 3 Financial investments measured using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) comprise fixed-rate preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings. The unobservable elements of the valuation technique include the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions. 446 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement in Level 3 financial instruments available for sale 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 1 January 1,078 2,025 Total gains or losses: – recognised in profit or loss – 55 – recognised in other comprehensive income 130 (61 ) Settlements – (941 ) Transfers out (1,208 ) – At 31 December – 1,078 Total gains or losses recognised in profit or loss relating to those assets and liabilities held on 31 December – 18 In certain circumstances, the fair value of financial instruments are measured using valuation models that incorporate assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of non-derivative financial instruments to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Reflected in equity Favourable changes US$m Unfavourable changes US$m Financial investments: available for sale At 31 December 2012 – – At 31 December 2011 69 (77 ) 16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. Fair values of financial instruments which are not carried at fair value on the balance sheet At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amountUS$m Fair value US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Assets and liabilities not held for sale Assets Loans and advances to banks 152,546 152,823 180,987 181,302 Loans and advances to customers 997,623 973,741 940,429 914,485 Financial investments: debt securities 23,413 25,458 21,018 22,500 Financial investments: treasury and other eligible bills – – 181 181 Liabilities Deposits by banks 107,429 107,392 112,822 112,848 Customer accounts 1,340,014 1,340,521 1,253,925 1,254,313 Debt securities in issue 119,461 120,779 131,013 130,914 Subordinated liabilities 29,479 32,159 30,606 29,351 Loans and advances and customer accounts held for sale Loans and advances to banks and customers 6,632 6,387 35,720 37,832 Customer accounts 2,990 2,990 20,138 19,130 1 Including financial instruments within disposal groups held for sale. 447 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The following is a list of financial instruments whose carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: Assets Cash and balances at central banks Items in the course of collection from other banks Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness Endorsements and acceptances Short-term receivables within ‘Other assets’ Accrued income Liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation Items in the course of transmission to other banks Investment contracts with discretionary participation features within ‘Liabilities under insurance contracts’ Endorsements and acceptances Short-term payables within ‘Other liabilities’ Accruals Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Loans and advances to customers Europe 463,440 453,382 434,336 426,039 Hong Kong 173,613 171,926 157,665 154,054 Rest of Asia-Pacific 138,119 138,015 123,868 123,662 Middle East and North Africa 28,086 27,954 25,875 25,758 North America 140,756 128,637 142,747 128,608 Latin America 53,609 53,827 55,938 56,364 997,623 973,741 940,429 914,485 Valuation The calculation of fair value incorporates HSBC’s estimate of the amount at which financial assets could be exchanged, or financial liabilities settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments’ cash flows over their expected future lives. Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available. The fair values of loans and advances to customers in the US are substantially lower than their carrying amount, reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date. The secondary market demand and estimated value for US loans and advances has been heavily influenced by the challenging economic conditions during the past number of years, including house price depreciation, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, changes in discount rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of loans and advances. Many investors are non-bank financial institutions or hedge funds with high equity levels and a high cost of debt. For certain consumer loans, investors take a more conservative view of future performance than HSBC. As a result, third parties are likely to assume higher charge-off levels and/or slower voluntary prepayment speeds than HSBC believes will ultimately be the case. The investor discount rates reflect this difference in the overall cost of capital as well as the potential volatility in the underlying cash flow assumptions, the combination of which may yield a significant pricing discount from HSBC’s intrinsic value. There was a modest decrease year on year in the fair value of loans and advances to customers in Europe relative to their carrying amount, largely in the UK mortgage portfolio which is sensitive to changes in market pricing between the balance sheet dates given its size and the competitive UK market. We also enhanced fair value estimation processes for mortgage and corporate lending in the UK to reflect risk factors, product characteristics and prepayment estimates at a more granular level. This overall decrease was mitigated by higher valuations of ABSs classified as loans and receivables following improved market appetite for such securities. 448 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The fair values of loans and advances to customers in Latin America are higher than their carrying amount, primarily driven by a decrease in market interest rates, and in particular for the mortgage portfolios. Fair values of the assets and liabilities set out below are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as follows: Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available. In the absence of observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using valuation models that incorporate a range of input assumptions. These assumptions may include value estimates from third party brokers which reflect over-the-counter trading activity; forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions which HSBC believes are consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans; and trading inputs from other market participants which includes observed primary and secondary trades. Loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous groups and stratified by loans with similar characteristics to improve the accuracy of estimated valuation outputs. The stratification of a loan book considers all material factors, including vintage, origination period, estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, loan-to-value ratios, the quality of collateral, default probability, and internal credit risk ratings. Valuation techniques are calibrated on a regular basis and tested for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or are based on any available observable market data. The fair value of a loan reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value impact of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date. For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered. Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities. Deposits by banks and customer accounts For the purpose of estimating fair value, deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by remaining contractual maturity. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities. The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is assumed to be the amount payable on demand at the balance sheet date. Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments. The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments. In many cases, it would not be possible to realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size of the portfolios measured. Accordingly, these fair values do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern. HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above. The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet: 449 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amountUS$m Fair value US$m Carrying amountUS$m Fair value US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 41,675 42,843 28,048 27,562 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 12,856 13,133 2,479 2,485 Debt securities in issue 2,691 3,188 2,613 2,922 Subordinated liabilities 11,907 14,865 12,450 13,052 17 Reclassification of financial assets In 2008, HSBC reclassified US$15.3bn and US$2.6bn of financial assets from the held-for-trading category to the loans and receivables and available-for-sale classifications, respectively, as permitted by the relevant amendment to IAS 39 and explained in Note 2(e) on the Financial Statements. No further reclassifications were undertaken. Reclassification of HSBC’s financial assets At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Reclassification to loans and receivables 6,378 5,616 7,867 6,651 Reclassification to available for sale 12 12 33 33 6,390 5,628 7,900 6,684 The following table shows the fair value gains and losses, income and expense recognised in the income statement in respect of reclassified assets and the gains and losses that would have been recognised if no reclassification had taken place: Effect of reclassifying and not reclassifying financial assets 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Reclassification to loans and receivables Recorded in the income statement1 179 318 610 Assuming no reclassification2 653 317 1,260 Net income statement effect of reclassification (474 ) 1 (650 ) Reclassification to available for sale Recorded in the income statement1 – 1 56 Assuming no reclassification2 1 (2 ) 59 Net income statement effect of reclassification (1 ) 3 (3 ) 1 ‘Income and expense’ recorded in the income statement include the accrual of the effective interest rate and, for 2012, includes US$84m in respect of impairment (2011: US$69m; 2010: US$6m). 2 Effect on the income statement during the year had the reclassification not occurred. 450 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 18 Financial assets designated at fair value At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Financial assets designated at fair value: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 33,562 30,738 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 20 118 33,582 30,856 Treasury and other eligible bills 54 123 Debt securities 12,551 11,834 Equity securities 20,868 17,930 Securities designated at fair value 33,473 29,887 Loans and advances to banks 55 119 Loans and advances to customers 54 850 33,582 30,856 Securities designated at fair value1 At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Fair value US Treasury and US Government agencies2 37 35 UK Government 625 812 Hong Kong Government 135 151 Other government 4,508 3,964 Asset-backed securities3 158 201 Corporate debt and other securities 7,142 6,794 Equities 20,868 17,930 33,473 29,887 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$3,509m (2011: US$3,497m), of which US$5m (2011: US$40m) are guaranteed by various governments. 2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible bills US$m Debt securities US$m Equity securities US$m Total US$m Fair value at 31 December 2012 Listed on a recognised exchange1 – 3,007 14,063 17,070 Unlisted 54 9,544 6,805 16,403 54 12,551 20,868 33,473 Fair value at 31 December 2011 Listed on a recognised exchange1 4 3,607 11,859 15,470 Unlisted 119 8,227 6,071 14,417 123 11,834 17,930 29,887 1 Included within listed investments are US$931m of investments listed in Hong Kong (2011: US$631m). 451 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 19 Derivatives Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Assets Liabilities TradingUS$m HedgingUS$m TotalUS$m TradingUS$m HedgingUS$m TotalUS$m At 31 December 2012 Foreign exchange 68,277 1,227 69,504 70,944 239 71,183 Interest rate 628,162 2,417 630,579 618,808 6,491 625,299 Equity 15,413 – 15,413 19,889 – 19,889 Credit 12,740 – 12,740 13,508 – 13,508 Commodity and other 1,443 – 1,443 1,236 – 1,236 Gross total fair values 726,035 3,644 729,679 724,385 6,730 731,115 Netting (372,229 ) (372,229 ) Total 357,450 358,886 At 31 December 2011 Foreign exchange 74,958 1,026 75,984 75,077 371 75,448 Interest rate 510,652 2,439 513,091 502,906 6,221 509,127 Equity 15,262 – 15,262 19,363 – 19,363 Credit 25,694 – 25,694 25,800 – 25,800 Commodity and other 2,198 – 2,198 1,492 – 1,492 Gross total fair values 628,764 3,465 632,229 624,638 6,592 631,230 Netting (285,850 ) (285,850 ) Total 346,379 345,380 The 3% increase in the fair value of derivative assets during 2012 was driven by increased interest rate derivative fair values as major currency yield curves continued to decline, in particular, the euro. This drove both the increase in gross fair values and the increase in the netting adjustment. Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Trading assets US$m Trading liabilities US$m Trading assets US$m Trading liabilities US$m Foreign exchange 1,636 760 1,546 1,067 Interest rate 2,132 – 2,022 – 3,768 760 3,568 1,067 Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices. Derivatives enable users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks. Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities. A description of how the fair value of derivatives is derived is set out on page 443. Derivative assets and liabilities on different transactions are only set off (netted) if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis. Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks. Derivatives (except for derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39) are held for trading. Within the held-for-trading classification are two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting. The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. These activities are described more fully below. HSBC’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels. When entering into derivative 452 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management framework to assess and approve potential credit exposures that is used for traditional lending. Trading derivatives Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price or margin and for the risk management of exposure arising from customer activities. Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters. Trading includes market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume; positioning means managing market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices; arbitrage involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products. As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness. Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Trading derivatives also include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value. Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in ‘Net trading income’ except for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items. Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt. Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value. The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. The 9% increase in the notional contract amounts of HSBC’s derivatives during 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in the trading volumes of interest rate contracts. Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type HSBC HSBC Holdings At31 December2012 US$m At31 December 2011 US$m At 31 December2012 US$m At31 December2011 US$m Foreign exchange 4,435,729 3,945,774 17,576 18,942 Interest rate 21,355,749 19,788,710 11,554 10,954 Equity 495,668 265,577 – – Credit 901,507 1,049,147 – – Commodity and other 80,219 76,487 – – 27,268,872 25,125,695 29,130 29,896 Credit derivatives HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring transactions to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products. Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties. HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty. Trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products. 453 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Group’s loan portfolios. The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$901,507m (2011: US$1,049,147m) consisted of protection bought of US$446,410m (2011: US$517,737m) and protection sold of US$455,097m (2011: US$531,410m). The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described on page 265. Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition (the transaction price) and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2012US$m 2011US$m Unamortised balance at 1 January 200 250 Deferral on new transactions 149 234 Recognised in the income statement during the period: – amortisation (112 ) (143 ) – subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable (1 ) (71 ) – maturity, termination or offsetting derivative (46 ) (60 ) – risk hedged (11 ) (8 ) Exchange differences 2 (2 ) Unamortised balance at 31 December1 181 200 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement. Hedge accounting derivatives HSBC uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps) for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and liability portfolios and structural positions. This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities. The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of hedge transactions. Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investment in foreign operations. These are described under the relevant headings below. The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes by product type At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Cash flow hedge US$m Fair value hedge US$m Cash flow hedge US$m Fair value hedge US$m Foreign exchange 16,716 112 12,078 1,363 Interest rate 182,688 75,505 228,052 76,950 199,404 75,617 240,130 78,313 Fair value hedges HSBC’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates. For fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement. If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income statement as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period. 454 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Assets US$m Liabilities US$m Assets US$m Liabilities US$m Foreign exchange – – 77 1 Interest rate 199 4,450 369 4,331 199 4,450 446 4,332 Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Gains/(losses): – on hedging instruments (898 ) (4,082 ) (830 ) – on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 871 3,858 868 (27 ) (224 ) 38 The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. Cash flow hedges HSBC’s cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions. Gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income statement. Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Assets US$m Liabilities US$m Assets US$m Liabilities US$m Foreign exchange 1,230 200 949 370 Interest rate 2,218 2,041 2,070 1,890 3,448 2,241 3,019 2,260 Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 3 months or less US$m More than 3 months but less than 1 year US$m 5 years or less but more than 1 year US$m More than 5 years US$m At 31 December 2012 Assets 112,846 93,072 72,557 5,055 Liabilities (68,534 ) (43,800 ) (29,401 ) (4,777 ) Net cash inflows exposure 44,312 49,272 43,156 278 At 31 December 2011 Assets 139,701 110,960 66,383 4,460 Liabilities (77,898 ) (50,480 ) (36,296 ) (4,693 ) Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure 61,803 60,480 30,087 (233 ) This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items. 455 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. During the year to 31 December 2012 a gain of US$35m (2011: gain of US$26m; 2010: loss of US$9m) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments. Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings. At 31 December 2012, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of US$3m (2011: US$121m) and liabilities of US$50m (2011: US$36m) and notional contract values of US$2,654m (2011: US$3,920m). The ineffectiveness recognised in ‘Net trading income’ in the year ended 31 December 2012 that arose from hedges in foreign operations was nil (2011 and 2010: nil). 20 Financial investments At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Financial investments: – not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 399,613 364,906 – which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 21,488 35,138 421,101 400,044 Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Treasury and other eligible bills 87,550 87,550 65,223 65,223 – available for sale 87,550 87,550 65,042 65,042 – held to maturity – – 181 181 Debt securities 327,762 329,807 327,611 329,093 – available for sale 304,349 304,349 306,593 306,593 – held to maturity 23,413 25,458 21,018 22,500 Equity securities 5,789 5,789 7,210 7,210 – available for sale 5,789 5,789 7,210 7,210 Total financial investments 421,101 423,146 400,044 401,526 Financial investments at amortised cost and fair value Amortised cost1 US$m Fair value2 US$m At 31 December 2012 US Treasury 60,657 61,925 US Government agencies3 22,579 23,500 US Government sponsored entities3 5,262 5,907 UK Government 17,018 17,940 Hong Kong Government 42,687 42,711 Other government 146,507 149,179 Asset-backed securities4 29,960 26,418 Corporate debt and other securities 86,099 89,777 Equities 4,284 5,789 415,053 423,146 456 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Amortised cost1 US$m Fair value2 US$m At 31 December 2011 US Treasury 43,848 45,283 US Government agencies3 25,079 26,093 US Government sponsored entities3 4,425 5,056 UK Government 32,165 33,603 Hong Kong Government 33,359 33,374 Other government 125,623 127,049 Asset-backed securities4 35,096 28,625 Corporate debt and other securities 94,110 95,233 Equities 5,122 7,210 398,827 401,526 At 31 December 2010 US Treasury 37,380 37,255 US Government agencies3 20,895 21,339 US Government sponsored entities3 5,029 5,267 UK Government 31,069 31,815 Hong Kong Government 29,770 29,793 Other government 108,947 109,806 Asset-backed securities4 39,845 33,175 Corporate debt and other securities 124,704 125,311 Equities 5,605 7,983 403,244 401,744 1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment. 2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$59,908m (2011: US$68,334m; 2010: US$99,733m), of which US$6,916m (2011: US$17,079m; 2010: US$38,862m) are guaranteed by various governments. The fair value of the debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$60,616m (2011: US$68,765m; 2010: US$100,070m). 3 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 4 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities. Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other eligible bills available for sale US$m Treasury and other eligible bills held to maturity US$m Debt securities available for sale US$m Debt securities held to maturity US$m Equity securities available for sale US$m Total US$m Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 Listed on a recognised exchange1 3,284 – 113,399 5,599 536 122,818 Unlisted2 84,266 – 190,950 17,814 5,253 298,283 87,550 – 304,349 23,413 5,789 421,101 Carrying amount at 31 December 2011 Listed on a recognised exchange1 4,077 – 121,303 4,370 535 130,285 Unlisted2 60,965 181 185,290 16,648 6,675 269,759 65,042 181 306,593 21,018 7,210 400,044 1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2012 was US$6,123m (2011: US$4,641m). Included within listed investments were US$3,512m (2011: US$3,544m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for which there is a liquid market. 457 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Remaining contractual maturity of total debt securities: 1 year or less 67,268 87,080 5 years or less but over 1 year 157,075 128,192 10 years or less but over 5 years 47,123 52,251 Over 10 years 56,296 60,088 327,762 327,611 Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities available for sale: 1 year or less 65,500 85,821 5 years or less but over 1 year 149,195 120,763 10 years or less but over 5 years 39,498 44,946 Over 10 years 50,156 55,063 304,349 306,593 Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities held to maturity: 1 year or less 1,768 1,259 5 years or less but over 1 year 7,880 7,429 10 years or less but over 5 years 7,625 7,305 Over 10 years 6,140 5,025 23,413 21,018 Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities at 31 December 2012 Within one year After one year butwithin five years After five years butwithin ten years After ten years Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % Available for sale US Treasury 12,306 0.4 30,334 0.5 6,113 2.0 2,237 3.5 US Government agencies 6 2.6 7 5.3 94 1.9 22,128 2.9 US Government-sponsored agencies 5 2.0 360 2.6 2,968 3.1 807 3.7 UK Government 162 0.2 13,793 1.5 1,286 5.9 634 5.1 Hong Kong Government 946 0.5 686 2.0 – – – – Other governments 38,327 2.5 60,048 2.7 10,198 4.4 2,112 3.8 Asset-backed securities 336 0.1 2,682 0.4 7,643 0.2 19,181 0.2 Corporate debt and other securities 13,312 3.2 39,667 2.5 8,123 3.5 3,325 5.1 Total amortised cost 65,400 147,577 36,425 50,424 Total carrying value 65,500 149,195 39,498 50,156 Held to maturity US Treasury 22 4.2 21 4.4 50 4.8 143 4.4 US Government agencies – – 1 7.6 3 7.7 338 6.5 US Government-sponsored agencies 1 8.1 6 7.8 1 7.8 1,113 6.2 Hong Kong Government – – 30 0.4 10 4.1 3 1.2 Other governments 71 2.8 480 3.8 254 5.2 562 5.1 Asset-backed securities – – – – – – 118 6.3 Corporate debt and other securities 1,674 4.4 7,342 3.8 7,307 4.2 3,863 4.2 Total amortised cost 1,768 7,880 7,625 6,140 Total carrying value 1,768 7,880 7,625 6,140 The maturity distributions of asset-backed securities are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2012 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives. 21 Transfers of financial assets HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties including SPEs. Depending on the circumstances these transfers may either result in these financial assets being derecognised or continuing to be recognised. 458 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) • Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The risks include credit, interest rate, foreign currency, prepayment and other price risks. • Derecognition does not occur when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, but either: i) retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset; or ii) neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership but has retained control of the financial asset. In this situation the financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement. The majority of transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are (i) debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or (ii) equity securities lent under securities lending agreements. As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings the asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and the related liability reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for a fixed price at a future date is recognised in deposits from banks or customers as appropriate. As a result of these transactions, the Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction. The Group remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments. The counterparty’s recourse is not limited to the transferred assets. Other transactions where the counterparty’s recourse is only to the transferred asset includes a Canadian government sponsored securitisation programme, where HSBC Bank Canada assigns ownership and its right to sell or pledge residential mortgages. HSBC Bank Canada remains exposed to credit and interest rate risk on the assigned residential mortgages, which continue to be recorded as loans and advances. Third party funds received by HSBC Bank Canada under the programme are accounted for as secured borrowings and presented as debt securities in issue on the consolidated balance sheet. In a small number of securitisation transactions, HSBC has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred assets, and has retained control of the transferred assets. Circumstances in which HSBC has continuing involvement in the transferred assets may include retention of servicing rights over the transferred assets, entering into a derivative transaction with the securitisation vehicle or retaining an interest in the securitisation vehicle. Where HSBC has continuing involvement it continues to recognise the transferred assets to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability. The net carrying amount of the transferred assets and associated liabilities reflects the rights and obligations that HSBC has retained. The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated financial liabilities, including those that are recognised to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement and the associated liabilities. Financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities1 Carrying amount of assets before transfer Carrying amount of transferred assets Carrying amount of associated liabilities Fair value of transferred assets Fair value of associated liabilities Net position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Repurchase agreements 122,130 121,589 Securities lending agreements 5,891 5,820 Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only) 9,727 9,733 9,767 9,856 (89 ) Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement 17,427 12 6 12 6 6 1 The disclosure for 2012 reflects amendments made to IFRS 7 that are effective prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. 459 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of transferred assets and associated liabilities for repurchase agreements were US$124,982m and US$124,413m respectively, and for securities lending agreements were US$7,129m and US$7,039m, respectively. At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of transferred assets and associated liabilities for securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement were US$22m and US$11m, respectively. The carrying amount of these assets before transfer was US$17,427m. Financial assets qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities1 At 31 December 2012 2012 Carrying amount Gain or Income/ of continuing Fair value of loss Income/ (expenses) involvement in continuing Maximum recognised (expenses) recognised the balance sheet involvement exposure at transfer recognised cumulat- Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities to loss date in year ively US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Type of continuing involvement Interest in SPEs 393 – 354 – 393 10 8 58 1 The disclosure for 2012 reflects amendments made to IFRS 7 that are effective prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. The assets in the table above represent our continuing involvement in securitisations where HSBC has transferred assets to an unconsolidated SPE, but has retained some of the notes issued by the SPE. These notes are reported in loans and advances to customers. The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the notes. 22 Interests in associates and joint ventures Associates Principal associates of HSBC At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Carrying amount US$m Fair value US$m Listed Bank of Communications Co., Limited 11,770 10,633 8,507 8,234 Industrial Bank Co., Limited 2,851 3,665 2,214 2,743 Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited – – 6,373 8,110 The Saudi British Bank 2,135 3,189 1,886 3,256 16,756 17,487 18,980 22,343 At 31 December 2012 Country of incorporation HSBC’s interest in equity capital Issued equity capital Listed Bank of Communications Co., Limited PRC 1 19.03% RMB74,263m Industrial Bank Co., Limited PRC 1 12.80% RMB10,786m The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia 40.00% SR10,000m Unlisted Barrowgate Limited2 Hong Kong 24.64% – Vietnam Technological and Commercial Joint Stock Bank Vietnam 19.48% VND8,848,079m Yantai Bank Co., Limited3 PRC 1 20.00% RMB2,000m 1 People’s Republic of China. 2 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1m. 3 The investment is held through Hang Seng Bank Limited, a 62.14% owned subsidiary of HSBC. All the above investments in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings. Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. HSBC had US$11,770m (2011: US$14,880m) of investments in associates and joint ventures listed in Hong Kong. 460 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) For the year ended 31 December 2012, HSBC’s share of associates and joint ventures’ tax on profit was US$959m (2011: US$890m), which is included within ‘Share of profit in associates and joint ventures’ in the income statement. Summarised aggregate financial information on associates At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC’s share of: – assets 237,338 249,461 – liabilities 220,455 230,902 – revenues 14,206 12,009 – profit after tax 3,521 3,221 HSBC’s investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) was equity accounted with effect from August 2004. HSBC’s significant influence in BoCom was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, HSBC is assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to assist in this process. During 2012, the market value of the investment in BoCom was below the carrying amount for a period of approximately ten months. As a result, we performed impairment tests on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom. The result confirmed that there was no impairment. The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use (‘VIU’) calculation, with its carrying amount. The calculation of VIU used discounted cash flow projections based on management’s estimates. Cash flows beyond the next five years were then extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate. The discount rate used was based on a cost of capital used to evaluate investments in mainland China. Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom which are sensitive to the cash flows projected in the short- and medium-term, and also to the key assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows thereafter. The key assumptions are consistent with external sources of information. HSBC’s investment in Industrial Bank Co., Limited (‘Industrial Bank’) was equity accounted with effect from May 2004. HSBC’s significant influence has been established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. In January 2013 HSBC was no longer in a position to exercise significant influence over Industrial Bank and ceased to account for it as an associate. For further details, see Note 45. HSBC’s investment in Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China Limited (‘Ping An’) was equity accounted with effect from August 2005, reflecting HSBC’s significant influence over this associate. HSBC’s significant influence was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. In June 2011, following a further issue of shares by Ping An to a third party, HSBC’s holding was diluted to 15.57% and a dilution gain of US$181m was recognised in ‘Other operating income’. In July 2011, Ping An increased its ownership interest in Shenzhen Development Bank (‘SDB’) from 29.99% to 52.38%. As a result, the status of its investment in SDB changed from an interest in an associate to an investment in subsidiary. As a result of this transaction, Ping An recognised a re-measurement loss; HSBC’s share of this re-measurement loss was US$48m. In December 2012 approximately 20.8% of HSBC’s holding in Ping An was disposed of. Following the disposal, HSBC no longer has significant influence over Ping An and has ceased to account for Ping An as an associate. For further details on investment in Ping An, see Note 26. The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom, Ping An and Industrial Bank is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2012, these companies were included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September 2012, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012 that would have materially affected their results. HSBC acquired 15% of Vietnam Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank in October 2007. This investment was equity accounted from that date due to HSBC’s representation on the Board of Directors and involvement in the Technical Support and Assistance Agreement. In December 2007, as a result of a rights issue in which HSBC did not 461 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) participate, HSBC’s equity interest was diluted to 14.44%. In September 2008, HSBC increased its equity interest to 20%. HSBC’s equity interest has been subsequently diluted to below 20% due to the issue of shares by the associate to its own employees. Joint ventures Principal interests in joint ventures At 31 December 2012 Country of incorporation Principal activity HSBC’s interestin equity capital Issued equity capital HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia Investment banking 49.00% SR500m Vaultex UK Limited England Cash management 50.00% £10m Hana HSBC Life Insurance Co., Ltd South Korea Insurance manufacturing 49.99% KRW110,201m Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited India Insurance manufacturing 26.00% INR9,500m Summarised aggregate financial information on joint ventures At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC’s share of: – current assets 1,964 1,556 – non-current assets 202 196 – current liabilities 924 747 – non-current liabilities 961 715 – income 347 383 – expenses 311 339 In December 2011, following the issue of shares by HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited to a third party, HSBC’s holding was diluted from 60% to 49% and a dilution gain of US$27m was recognised in ‘Other operating income’. Associates and joint ventures Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures 2012 US$m 2011 US$m At 1 January 20,399 17,198 Additions 1,804 90 Disposals (7,580 ) (25 ) Share of results 3,557 3,264 Dividends (489 ) (304 ) Exchange differences 60 681 Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 311 (710 ) Other movements (228 ) 205 At 31 December 17,834 20,399 Goodwill included in carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Gross amount At 1 January 1,551 1,518 Disposals (874 ) Exchange differences 3 57 Other changes (10 ) (24 ) At 31 December1 670 1,551 1 Includes the carrying amount of goodwill arising from joint ventures of US$30m (2011: US$31m). 462 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 23 Goodwill and intangible assets At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Goodwill 21,390 21,338 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’)1 4,847 4,092 Other intangible assets 3,616 3,604 29,853 29,034 1 Disclosures on PVIF are provided on page 243. Goodwill Reconciliation of goodwill Europe HongKong Rest ofAsia- Pacific MENA NorthAmerica LatinAmerica Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross amount At 1 January 2012 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 Disposals (2 ) (4 ) (5 ) – – (21 ) (32 ) Exchange differences 229 (6 ) (38 ) (3 ) – 23 205 Reclassified to held for sale – – – – (408 ) (121 ) (529 ) At 31 December 2012 14,660 114 1,020 60 8,339 3,646 27,839 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2012 – – – – (6,857 ) – (6,857 ) Reclassified to held for sale – – – – 408 – 408 At 31 December 2012 – – – – (6,449 ) – (6,449 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 14,660 114 1,020 60 1,890 3,646 21,390 Gross amount At 1 January 2011 14,885 124 1,115 65 12,465 4,316 32,970 Disposals (3 ) – – – – (46 ) (49 ) Exchange differences (449 ) – (35 ) (2 ) (1 ) (272 ) (759 ) Reclassified to held for sale – – – – (3,717 ) (231 ) (3,948 ) Other changes – – (17 ) – – (2 ) (19 ) At 31 December 2011 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2011 – – – – (10,564 ) – (10,564 ) Reclassified to held for sale – – – – 3,707 – 3,707 At 31 December 2011 – – – – (6,857 ) – (6,857 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2011 14,433 124 1,063 63 1,890 3,765 21,338 Impairment testing Timing of impairment testing HSBC’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed as at 1 July each year. In line with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(p), goodwill is also retested for impairment whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, the Group’s CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. The CGUs represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The GB&M-Europe CGU experienced significantly reduced profitability in the second half of 2012 and was retested for impairment as at 31 December 2012. For other CGUs there was no indication of impairment in the period to 31 December 2012 and therefore goodwill has not been retested since 1 July 2012. 463 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Basis of the recoverable amount – value in use or fair value less costs to sell The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its VIU at each respective testing date for 2011 and 2012. For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates. The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs. In 2012, management’s cash flow projections until the end of 2014 were used. Key assumptions in VIU calculation and management’s approach to determining the values assigned to each key assumption 2012 2011 Goodwill at 1 July 2012 US$m Discountrate % Nominal growth rate beyondinitial cash flow projections % Goodwill at 1 July 2011US$m Discountrate % Nominal growth rate beyondinitial cash flow projections % Cash-generating unit Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe 4,054 10.0 3.9 4,794 10.0 4.7 Commercial Banking – Europe 2,968 10.2 3.7 3,574 10.1 4.5 Global Private Banking – Europe 4,139 9.1 3.2 4,456 10.0 4.3 Global Banking and Markets – Europe 3,016 10.2 3.5 3,139 10.2 4.4 Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America 1,994 15.3 8.7 2,537 16.0 9.3 Total goodwill in the CGUs listed above 16,171 18,500 At 1 July 2012, aggregate goodwill of US$4,741m (1 July 2011: US$5,091m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant. These CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill. Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of likely future trends. The rates used for 2011 and 2012 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within which the CGU operates. Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model (‘CAPM’). The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates produced by external sources. HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in management’s judgement, those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions. For 2012 and 2011, internal costs of capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates. Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the Group Management Board. The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below. Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM – Europe and CMB – Europe reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two CGUs. Key assumptions include the level of interest rates and the level and change in unemployment rates. While current economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, management’s cash flow projections are based primarily on these prevailing conditions. Risks include a further recession in the UK and an uncertain regulatory environment. RBWM – Europe specifically, is sensitive to further customer remediation costs in relation to PPI. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management 464 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM – Europe or CMB – Europe. Global Private Banking – Europe: the revenues in GPB – Europe are predominately generated through HSBC’s client relationships. The cash flow forecast reflects current economic conditions and key assumptions include the level of interest rates and client risk appetite. Further economic deterioration could result in a decrease in assets under management and a reduction in fee and trading income through increased client risk aversion. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of GPB – Europe. Global Banking and Markets – Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for GB&M – Europe is that European markets will continue to recover during 2013. Accordingly, European revenues are forecast to recover in 2013 and this recovery is assumed to continue over the projection period into 2014. Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for GB&M – Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the recommendations set out in the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented. Based on management’s value in use calculation, GB&M – Europe has an excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$2.3bn as at 1 July 2012. Headroom was US$2.3bn as at 31 December 2012 based on goodwill at that point of US$3.1bn. The change in carrying value between 1 July 2012 and 31 December 2012 arises from retranslating goodwill into the presentation currency of the group. The same assumptions were used in the impairment tests as at 1 July 2012 and 31 December 2012. The following changes to the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Discount rate Increase by 64 basis points Nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow projection Decrease by 69 basis points Revenue compound annual growth rate Decrease from 10.3% to 8.3% Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM – Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the countries within this segment, with Brazil and Mexico being two of the largest countries included within this segment. Key assumptions include the growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan portfolios. Mexico and Panama in particular are sensitive to economic conditions in the US which could constrain demand. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM – Latin America. Other intangible assets Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF Trade names Mortgage servicing rights Internally generated software Purchased software Customer/ merchant relation- ships Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2012 60 591 5,598 856 1,354 454 8,913 Additions1 1 30 765 78 120 48 1,042 Disposals – (123 ) (32 ) (61 ) (5 ) – (221 ) Amount written off – – (680 ) (21 ) (39 ) – (740 ) Exchange differences – – 62 – (48 ) 12 26 Reclassified to held for sale – – (26 ) (15 ) (7 ) (14 ) (62 ) Other changes – – 16 78 (8 ) 4 90 At 31 December 2012 61 498 5,703 915 1,367 504 9,048 465 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF (continued) Trade names US$m Mortgage servicing rights US$m Internally generated software US$m Purchased software US$m Customer/ merchant relation- ships US$m Other US$m Total US$m Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 (51 ) (369 ) (3,437 ) (672 ) (649 ) (131 ) (5,309 ) Charge for the year2 (5 ) (78 ) (645 ) (103 ) (127 ) (21 ) (979 ) Impairment – – (63 ) (3 ) – (2 ) (68 ) Disposals 2 123 28 53 5 – 211 Amount written off – – 680 21 39 – 740 Exchange differences – (2 ) (47 ) 1 15 (1 ) (34 ) Reclassified to held for sale – – 24 9 5 10 48 Other changes (1 ) – (9 ) (41 ) 8 2 (41 ) At 31 December 2012 (55 ) (326 ) (3,469 ) (735 ) (704 ) (143 ) (5,432 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 6 172 2,234 180 663 361 3,616 Cost At 1 January 2011 68 636 5,202 1,065 1,987 503 9,461 Additions1 – 40 1,129 102 379 6 1,656 Disposals – (91 ) (44 ) (102 ) (181 ) (1 ) (419 ) Amount written off – – (365 ) (133 ) – (2 ) (500 ) Exchange differences (6 ) – (109 ) (40 ) (79 ) (14 ) (248 ) Reclassified to held for sale (2 ) – (197 ) (22 ) (746 ) (46 ) (1,013 ) Other changes – 6 (18 ) (14 ) (6 ) 8 (24 ) At 31 December 2011 60 591 5,598 856 1,354 454 8,913 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 (52 ) (240 ) (2,958 ) (848 ) (1,143 ) (144 ) (5,385 ) Charge for the year2 (4 ) (215 ) (609 ) (106 ) (212 ) (29 ) (1,175 ) Impairment – – (386 ) (3 ) – (1 ) (390 ) Disposals – 91 29 100 111 3 334 Amount written off – – 365 133 – 2 500 Exchange differences 3 – 44 31 29 – 107 Reclassified to held for sale 2 – 50 18 563 36 669 Other changes – (5 ) 28 3 3 2 31 At 31 December 2011 (51 ) (369 ) (3,437 ) (672 ) (649 ) (131 ) (5,309 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2011 9 222 2,161 184 705 323 3,604 1 At 31 December 2012, HSBC had no contractual commitments (2011: nil) to acquire intangible assets. 2 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under ‘Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets’, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in ‘Net fee income’. 466 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 24 Property, plant and equipment Freeholdland andbuildings Longleaseholdland andbuildings Short leasehold land and buildings1 Equipment, fixtures and fittings2 Equipment on operating leases Total3 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost or fair value At 1 January 2012 3,537 1,800 3,872 11,579 71 20,859 Additions at cost4 135 89 209 1,016 50 1,499 Fair value adjustments (35 ) 31 76 – – 72 Disposals (141 ) – (68) (915) (14 ) (1,138) Reclassified to held for sale (10 ) (36 ) (6) (70) – (122) Transfers 59 (7 ) (55) 3 – – Exchange differences (59 ) 10 40 195 4 190 Other changes 9 (23 ) – (148) – (162) At 31 December 2012 3,495 1,864 4,068 11,660 111 21,198 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 (544 ) (332 ) (1,181) (7,909) (28 ) (9,994) Depreciation charge for the year (72 ) (57 ) (201) (1,055) (12 ) (1,397) Disposals 44 – 53 844 13 954 Reclassified to held for sale 13 1 1 27 – 42 Transfers (26 ) 1 22 3 – – Impairment losses recognised (9 ) (4 ) (11) (63) – (87) Exchange differences (8 ) (2 ) (15) (137) (1 ) (163) Other changes (67 ) 3 12 84 3 35 At 31 December 2012 (669 ) (390 ) (1,320) (8,206) (25 ) (10,610) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 2,826 1,474 2,748 3,454 86 10,588 Cost or fair value At 1 January 2011 3,952 1,673 4,004 12,529 53 22,211 Additions at cost4 353 114 180 1,183 19 1,849 Fair value adjustments (15 ) 44 89 – – 118 Disposals (188 ) (19 ) (279) (1,400) – (1,886) Reclassified to held for sale (424 ) (19 ) (158) (260) – (861) Transfers (12 ) (35 ) 25 10 – (12) Exchange differences (203 ) 1 15 (395) (1 ) (583) Other changes 74 41 (4) (88) – 23 At 31 December 2011 3,537 1,800 3,872 11,579 71 20,859 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 (586 ) (307 ) (1,268) (8,506) (23 ) (10,690) Depreciation charge for the year (88 ) (51 ) (211) (1,157) (9 ) (1,516) Disposals 60 2 262 1,319 – 1,643 Reclassified to held for sale 133 13 80 138 – 364 Transfers 5 35 (34) (6) – – Impairment losses recognised (13 ) – (16) (25) – (54) Exchange differences 18 (1 ) 8 260 1 286 Other changes (73 ) (23 ) (2) 68 3 (27) At 31 December 2011 (544 ) (332 ) (1,181) (7,909) (28 ) (9,994) Net carrying amount at 31 December 2011 2,993 1,468 2,691 3,670 43 10,865 1 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$5m (2011: US$7m). 2 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$182m (2011: US$210m). 3 Including assets with a net book value of US$39m (2011: US$33m) pledged as security for liabilities. 4 At 31 December 2012, HSBC had US$412m (2011: US$517m) of contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment. Leasehold land and buildings Leasehold land and buildings are considered to be held under finance lease contracts where the value of the land cannot reliably be separated from the value of the lease and the respective contracts do not meet the criteria for classification as operating leases. Included within ‘Short leasehold land and buildings’ are the following amounts in respect of assets classed as improvements to buildings, which are carried at depreciated historical cost: 467 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Leasehold land and buildings 2012 2011 Cost US$m Accumulated depreciation US$m Cost US$m Accumulated depreciation US$m At 1 January 1,669 (751 ) 1,944 (933 ) Additions 119 – 171 – Disposals (65 ) 47 (269 ) 262 Depreciation charge for the year – (133 ) – (139 ) Impairment loss recognised – (6 ) – (15 ) Exchange differences 28 (13 ) (13 ) 2 Reclassified as held for sale (10 ) (1 ) (154 ) 73 Other changes (23 ) (9 ) (10 ) (1 ) At 31 December 1,718 (866 ) 1,669 (751 ) Net carrying amount at 31 December 852 918 Investment properties Movement on the fair value of investment properties Freehold land and buildings US$m Long leasehold land and buildings US$m Short leasehold land and buildings US$m Total US$m Fair value At 1 January 2012 745 192 402 1,339 Additions at cost 9 – – 9 Fair value adjustments (35 ) 31 76 72 Reclassified to held for sale – (29 ) – (29 ) Exchange differences (64 ) – 1 (63 ) Other changes (3 ) 1 8 6 At 31 December 2012 652 195 487 1,334 Fair value At 1 January 2011 667 156 310 1,133 Additions at cost 242 – – 242 Fair value adjustments (15 ) 44 89 118 Disposals (47 ) (17 ) – (64 ) Exchange differences (22 ) 1 1 (20 ) Other changes (80 ) 8 2 (70 ) At 31 December 2011 745 192 402 1,339 Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties. Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent more than 51% by value of HSBC’s investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited whose valuers are members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors. Properties in other countries, which represent 49% by value of HSBC’s investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers. HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2012 or 2011. HSBC properties leased to customers HSBC properties leased to customers included US$694m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$618m) let under operating leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$16m (2011: US$12m). None was held by HSBC Holdings. At 31 December 2012, the classification of land and buildings in Hong Kong in accordance with Hong Kong Companies Ordinance requirements was freehold nil (2011: nil), long leasehold US$1,319m (2011: US$1,363m), medium leasehold US$1,600m (2011: US$1,484m) and short leasehold US$3m (2011: US$4m). 468 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 25 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2012 Country of incorporation or registration HSBC’s interest in equity capital % Issued equity capital Share class Europe HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited England 100 £265m Ordinary £1 HSBC Bank A.S. Turkey 100 TRL652m A–Common TRL1 B–Common TRL1 HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. Malta 70.03 €88m Ordinary €0.30 HSBC Bank plc England 100 £797m Ordinary £1 Preferred Ordinary £1 Series 2 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 HSBC France France 99.99 €337m Shares €5.00 HSBC Bank International Limited Jersey 100 £1m Ordinary £1 HSBC Life (UK) Limited England 100 £94m Ordinary £1 HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA Switzerland 100 CHF1,363m Ordinary CHF1,000 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.62 €28m Shares of no par value Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited England 100 £67m Ordinary £1 Hong Kong Hang Seng Bank Limited1 Hong Kong 62.14 HK$9,559m Ordinary HK$5.00 HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$2,798m Ordinary HK$1,000 HSBC Life (International) Limited Bermuda 100 HK$2,778m Ordinary HK$1.00 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$58,969m Ordinary HK$2.50 CIP2 US$1.00 CRP3 US$1.00 NIP4 US$1.00 Rest of Asia-Pacific HSBC Bank Australia Limited Australia 100 A$751m Ordinary no par value A$60m Pref shares of no par value HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited PRC 5 100 RMB12,400m Ordinary CNY1.00 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM115m Ordinary RM0.50 Middle East and North Africa HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Jersey 100 US$931m Ordinary US$1.00 CRP3 US$1.00 HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. Egypt 94.53 EGP2,079m Ordinary EGP84.00 North America HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited Bermuda 100 BMD30m Common BMD1.00 HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 C$1,571m Class 1 Pref of NPV6 Class 2 Pref of NPV6 Common of NPV6 HSBC Bank USA, N.A. US 100 US$2m Common US$100 HSBC Finance Corporation US 100 –7 Common US$0.01 HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. US 100 –7 Common US$0.05 Latin America HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. Argentina 99.99 ARS1,244m Ordinary–A ARS1.00 Ordinary–B ARS1.00 HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo Brazil 100 BRL5,994m Shares of no par value HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN5,261m Ordinary MXN2.00 HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. Panama 100 US$10m Ordinary PAB1.00 1 Listed in Hong Kong. 5 People’s Republic of China. 2 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. 6 Preference shares of nil par value. 3 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares. 7 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m. 4 Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 29 ‘Debt securities in issue’, 33 ‘Subordinated liabilities’ and 37 ‘Non-controlling interests’, respectively. All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements. 469 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Details of all HSBC subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S.A., whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually. The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa and HSBC Life (International) Limited which operates mainly in Hong Kong. In February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. to Bancolombia S.A. For further details see Note 45. During 2012 and 2011, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances. Acquisitions In June 2012, HSBC merged its operations in Oman with the Oman International Bank S.A.O.G. for total consideration of US$0.2bn. HSBC owns 51% of the combined entity, HSBC Bank Oman S.A.O.G., which had net assets of US$0.8bn immediately following the merger. In October 2012, HSBC acquired the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the United Arab Emirates for a total consideration of US$0.1bn. As a result of the transaction HSBC acquired net assets of US$0.2bn. SPEs consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights Carrying value of total consolidated assets Nature of SPE 2012 US$bn 2011 US$bn Barion Funding Limited 3.9 3.8 Securities investment conduit Bryant Park Funding LLC 0.9 2.8 Conduit HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I 2.0 2.1 Securitisation HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II 2.2 2.4 Securitisation HSBC Receivables Funding, Inc. II – 1.9 Securitisation Malachite Funding Limited 3.4 3.6 Securities investment conduit Mazarin Funding Limited 8.0 8.0 Securities investment conduit Metrix Funding Ltd – 0.7 Securitisation Metrix Securities plc – 0.4 Securitisation Regency Assets Limited 10.1 7.5 Conduit Solitaire Funding Ltd 11.3 12.5 Securities investment conduit In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant SPEs with total assets of US$17bn. For further details, see Note 42. In each of the above cases, HSBC has less than 50% of the voting rights, but consolidates because it has the majority of risks and rewards of ownership of the SPE, or the substance of the relationship with the SPE is such that its activities are conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefit from the SPE’s operation. The consolidation of SPEs sponsored by HSBC is discussed on page 384. 470 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 26 Assets held for sale and other assets Assets held for sale 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Disposal groups 5,797 38,903 Non-current assets held for sale: 13,472 655 – property, plant and equipment 500 589 – investment in Ping An 8,168 – – loans and advances to customers 3,893 – – other 911 66 19,269 39,558 Disposal groups At 31 December 2012, the following businesses represented the majority of disposal groups held for sale: • Latin American businesses, which include banking operations in Peru, Colombia and Paraguay. • US life insurance businesses. The following significant businesses that were held for sale at 31 December 2011 were sold in 2012: • The sale of the US Card and Retail Services business that was completed on 1 May 2012 with a gain on disposal of US$3.1bn. • The sale of 195 US branches were completed in several stages in 2012. 138 branches were sold on 18 May 2012, recognising a gain of US$661m. The remaining branches were sold in the third quarter of 2012 with a gain of US$203m. • Central American businesses, which include banking operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras were sold in November and December 2012 with a loss on disposal of US$62m. The major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale were as follows: At 31 December 2012 South America businesses US$m US life insurance businesses US$m Other US$m Total US$m Assets of disposal groups held for sale Trading assets 4 – – 4 Loans and advances to banks 344 – 164 508 Loans and advances to customers 1,929 – 302 2,231 Financial investments 364 1,396 229 1,989 Prepayments and accrued income 27 15 5 47 Goodwill and intangible assets 33 53 60 146 Other assets of disposal groups 622 109 141 872 Total assets 3,323 1,573 901 5,797 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale (Note 30) Deposits by banks 26 – 10 36 Customer accounts 2,154 – 836 2,990 Debt securities in issue 566 – (1 ) 565 Liabilities under insurance contracts – 998 162 1,160 Other liabilities of disposal groups 132 39 96 267 Total liabilities 2,878 1,037 1,103 5,018 Net unrealised losses recognised in ‘other operating income’ as a result of reclassification to held for sale (96 ) – – (96 ) Expected date of completion Q4 2013 Q1 2013 Operating segment Latin America North America 471 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Property, plant and equipment The property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is the result of repossession of property that had been pledged as collateral by customers. Substantially all of these assets are disposed of within 12 months of acquisition. The majority arose within the North America operating segment. Investment in Ping An On 5 December 2012, we entered into an agreement to dispose of our entire 15.57% shareholding in Ping An for US$9.4bn. The disposal was carried out in two tranches, an initial tranche of 256,694,218 shares representing 3.24% of Ping An’s issued share capital, then the remaining 976,121,395 shares representing 12.33% of Ping An’s issued share capital. The selling price for both the tranches was fixed at HK$59 per share. The first tranche of shares was disposed on 7 December 2012. Following this disposal, HSBC no longer had significant influence over Ping An and ceased to account for it as an associate. The gain from the disposal of the first tranche of shares and the gain from the consequent discontinuance of associate accounting for the remaining 12.33% shareholding in Ping An totalled US$3bn, and was recognised in the income statement. The remaining 12.33% shareholding was recognised as an available-for-sale investment, measured initially at fair value on the date of discontinuance of associate accounting, and thereafter carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income. The fixing of the sale price gave rise to a contingent forward sale contract, the fair value of which at year end was based on the difference between the agreed sale price and the market price for the shares, adjusted for an assessment of the probability of the transaction being completed. The adverse fair value of this contract was US$553m at 31 December 2012, recorded in net trading income. At 31 December 2012, the fair value of our 12.33% shareholding in Ping An was US$8.2bn included within ‘Assets held for sale’ above, with US$737m accumulated unrealised gains in other comprehensive income which arose after the date of the agreement and represent the difference between Ping An’s share price at the year-end and the share price on the date of recognition as an available-for-sale investment. The sale of the second tranche was completed on 6 February 2013 where the net impact of the change in fair value of the contingent forward sale contract to the point of delivery of the shares and the derecognition of the available-for-sale investment resulted in an income statement gain before tax in 2013 of US$553m. Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers held for sale at 31 December 2012 include US personal loan balances of US$3.4bn, net of impairment allowances. Other assets At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Bullion 26,508 19,824 Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Note 31) 1,407 1,801 Endorsements and acceptances 12,032 11,010 Retirement benefit assets 2,846 2,497 Other accounts 11,923 13,567 54,716 48,699 472 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 27 Trading liabilities At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Deposits by banks 61,686 47,506 Customer accounts 150,705 123,344 Other debt securities in issue (Note 29) 31,198 29,987 Other liabilities – net short positions in securities 60,974 64,355 304,,563 265,192 At 31 December 2012, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC credit risk was a loss of US$29m (2011: gain of US$599m). Deposits by banks held for trading At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Repos 26,740 16,687 Settlement accounts 7,647 7,221 Stock lending 4,523 2,821 Other 22,776 20,777 61,686 47,506 Customer accounts held for trading At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Repos 103,483 70,151 Settlement accounts 9,461 6,909 Stock lending 2,295 1,774 Other 35,466 44,510 150,705 123,344 28 Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Deposits by banks and customer accounts 496 517 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 12,456 11,399 Debt securities in issue (Note 29) 53,209 52,197 Subordinated liabilities (Note 33) 16,863 17,503 Preferred securities (Note 33) 4,696 4,108 87,720 85,724 The carrying amount at 31 December 2012 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$7,032m more than the contractual amount at maturity (2011: US$1,377m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$88m (2011: gain of US$5,118m). 473 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Debt securities in issue (Note 29): – owed to third parties 8,577 5,753 Subordinated liabilities (Note 33): – owed to third parties 10,358 11,443 – owed to HSBC undertakings 4,260 3,955 23,195 21,151 The carrying amount at 31 December 2012 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$3,199m more than the contractual amount at maturity (2011: US$722m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$164m (2011: gain of US$2,096m). 29 Debt securities in issue At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Bonds and medium-term notes 155,661 151,367 Other debt securities in issue 48,207 61,830 203,868 213,197 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: – trading liabilities (Note 27) (31,198 ) (29,987 ) – financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 28) (53,209 ) (52,197 ) 119,461 131,013 Certain debt securities in issue are managed on a fair value basis as part of HSBC’s interest rate risk management policies. The debt securities being hedged are presented within the balance sheet caption ‘Financial liabilities designated at fair value’, with the remaining debt securities included within ‘Trading liabilities’. The following table analyses the carrying amount of bonds and medium-term notes in issue at 31 December with original maturities greater than one year: Bonds and medium-term notes HSBC At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Fixed rate Secured financing: 0.01% to 3.99%: until 2056 7,514 8,259 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2013 231 1,307 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2019 189 332 8.00% to 9.99%: until 2028 252 276 Other fixed rate senior debt: 0.01% to 3.99%: until 2078 48,620 38,346 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2046 18,722 15,515 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2041 14,766 17,525 6.00% to 6.99%: until 2046 5,207 7,056 7.00% to 7.99%: until 2026 713 3,083 8.00% to 9.99%: until 2036 199 379 10.00% or higher: until 2028 108 437 96,521 92,515 Variable interest rate Secured financings – 0.01% to 13.99%: until 2068 7,897 7,279 FHLB advances – 0.01% to 0.99%: until 2036 1,000 1,000 Other variable interest rate senior debt – 0.01% to 12.99%: until 2057 43,104 47,393 52,001 55,672 474 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Brought forward 148,522 148,187 Structured notes Interest rate, equity, equity index or credit-linked 7,139 3,180 155,661 151,367 HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Debt securities 11,268 8,366 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: – financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 28) (8,577 ) (5,753 ) 2,691 2,613 Fixed rate senior debt, unsecured 3.00% to 3.99%: until 2016 1,258 1,177 4.00% to 4.99%: until 2022 4,945 2,573 5.00% to 5.99%: until 2021 2,990 2,730 6.00% to 6.99%: until 2042 2,075 1,886 11,268 8,366 30 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale HSBC 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale1 5,018 22,200 1 An analysis of liabilities of disposal groups held for sale is provided on page 471. Other liabilities HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC 564 720 – – Obligations under finance leases (Note 41) 304 428 – – Dividend declared and payable by HSBC Holdings (Note 10) – 885 – 885 Endorsements and acceptances 12,031 11,009 – – Other liabilities 20,963 14,925 30 26 33,862 27,967 30 911 31 Liabilities under insurance contracts Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m At 31 December 2012 Non-life insurance liabilities Unearned premium provision 34 (6 ) 28 Notified claims 29 (6 ) 23 Claims incurred but not reported 12 – 12 Other 6 (2 ) 4 81 (14 ) 67 475 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Liabilities under insurance contracts (continued) Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m Brought forward 81 (14 ) 67 Life insurance liabilities to policyholders Life (non-linked) 30,684 (938 ) 29,746 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features1 24,374 – 24,374 Life (linked) 13,056 (455 ) 12,601 68,114 (1,393 ) 66,721 68,195 (1,407 ) 66,788 At 31 December 2011 Non-life insurance liabilities Unearned premium provision 621 (112 ) 509 Notified claims 510 (91 ) 419 Claims incurred but not reported 449 (51 ) 398 Other 55 4 59 1,635 (250 ) 1,385 Life insurance liabilities to policyholders Life (non-linked) 26,926 (649 ) 26,277 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features1 21,488 – 21,488 Life (linked) 11,210 (903 ) 10,307 59,624 (1,552 ) 58,072 61,259 (1,802 ) 59,457 455 Though investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, HSBC treats them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. Movement on non-life insurance liabilities Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m 2012 Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’) At 1 January 621 (112 ) 509 Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense 44 3 47 Gross written premiums 760 (104 ) 656 Gross earned premiums (716 ) 107 (609 ) Disposals (497 ) 91 (406 ) Exchange differences and other movements (134 ) 12 (122 ) At 31 December 34 (6 ) 28 Notified and incurred but not reported claims At 1 January 959 (142 ) 817 Notified claims 510 (91 ) 419 Claims incurred but not reported 449 (51 ) 398 Claims paid in current year (339 ) 57 (282 ) Claims incurred in respect of current year 341 (53 ) 288 Claims incurred in respect of prior years 1 (5 ) (4 ) Disposals (486 ) 137 (349 ) Exchange differences and other movements (435 ) – (435 ) At 31 December 41 (6 ) 35 Notified claims 29 (6 ) 23 Claims incurred but not reported 12 – 12 Other 6 (2 ) 4 Total non-life insurance liabilities 81 (14 ) 67 476 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m 2011 Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’) At 1 January 727 (129 ) 598 Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense 31 (2 ) 29 Gross written premiums 1,175 (182 ) 993 Gross earned premiums (1,144 ) 180 (964 ) Exchange differences and other movements (137 ) 19 (118 ) At 31 December 621 (112 ) 509 Notified and incurred but not reported claims At 1 January 1,624 (305 ) 1,319 Notified claims 879 (230 ) 649 Claims incurred but not reported 745 (75 ) 670 Claims paid in current year (631 ) 81 (550 ) Claims incurred in respect of current year 481 (99 ) 382 Claims incurred in respect of prior years (46 ) 14 (32 ) Disposals (317 ) 129 (188 ) Exchange differences and other movements (152 ) 38 (114 ) At 31 December 959 (142 ) 817 Notified claims 510 (91 ) 419 Claims incurred but not reported 449 (51 ) 398 Other 55 4 59 Total non-life insurance liabilities 1,635 (250 ) 1,385 Life insurance liabilities to policyholders Gross US$m Reinsurers’ share US$m Net US$m 2012 Life (non-linked) At 1 January 26,926 (649 ) 26,277 Benefits paid (1,566 ) 160 (1,406 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 6,558 (479 ) 6,079 Exchange differences and other movements (1,234 ) 30 (1,204 ) At 31 December 30,684 (938 ) 29,746 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 21,488 – 21,488 Benefits paid (2,525 ) – (2,525 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,645 – 3,645 Exchange differences and other movements1 1,766 – 1,766 At 31 December 24,374 – 24,374 Life (linked) At 1 January 11,210 (903 ) 10,307 Benefits paid (1,810 ) 681 (1,129 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,984 223 4,207 Exchange differences and other movements2 (328 ) (456 ) (784 ) At 31 December 13,056 (455 ) 12,601 Total liabilities to policyholders 68,114 (1,393 ) 66,721 477 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Life insurance liabilities to policyholders (continued) GrossUS$m Reinsurers’ shareUS$m NetUS$m 2011 Life (non-linked) At 1 January 23,583 (673 ) 22,910 Benefits paid (1,793 ) 164 (1,629 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 5,729 (254 ) 5,475 Exchange differences and other movements (593 ) 114 (479 ) At 31 December 26,926 (649 ) 26,277 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 22,074 – 22,074 Benefits paid (2,628 ) – (2,628 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,005 – 3,005 Exchange differences and other movements1 (963 ) – (963 ) At 31 December 21,488 – 21,488 Life (linked) At 1 January 10,496 (760 ) 9,736 Benefits paid (1,129 ) 56 (1,073 ) Increase in liabilities to policyholders 2,462 (111 ) 2,351 Exchange differences and other movements2 (619 ) (88 ) (707 ) At 31 December 11,210 (903 ) 10,307 Total liabilities to policyholders 59,624 (1,552 ) 58,072 1 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income. 2 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements. The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to policyholders in the year. The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders. 32 Provisions Restruc- turing costsUS$m Contingent liabilities andcontractualcommitmentsUS$m Legal proceedings and regulatory mattersUS$m Customer remediationUS$m Other provisionsUS$m TotalUS$m At 1 January 2012 169 206 1,473 1,067 409 3,324 Additional provisions/increase in provisions 434 73 2,779 2,473 376 6,135 Provisions utilised (320 ) (2 ) (2,510 ) (1,022 ) (153 ) (4,007 ) Amounts reversed (89 ) (58 ) (104 ) (137 ) (63 ) (451 ) Unwinding of discounts – – 42 1 5 48 Exchange differences and other movements 57 82 (13 ) 5 72 203 At 31 December 2012 251 301 1,667 2,387 646 5,252 At 1 January 2011 21 405 969 442 301 2,138 Additional provisions/increase in provisions 221 14 896 1,078 184 2,393 Provisions utilised (58 ) (5 ) (367 ) (386 ) (71 ) (887 ) Amounts reversed (14 ) (41 ) (28 ) (87 ) (86 ) (256 ) Unwinding of discounts – 1 56 – 5 62 Exchange differences and other movements (1 ) (168 ) (53 ) 20 76 (126 ) At 31 December 2011 169 206 1,473 1,067 409 3,324 478 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 43. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. In December 2012, HSBC made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws. Further details of the agreements reached with the US authorities are set out on page 510. Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry developments in sales practices, and not necessarily initiated by regulatory action. Payment protection insurance An increase in provisions of US$1,681m was recognised during the year 2012 in respect of the estimated liability for redress regarding the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policies in previous years. Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in 2011 amount to US$2,397m, of which US$957m has been paid in 2012 (2011: US$325m). At 31 December 2012, the provision amounted to US$1,321m (2011: US$506m). The estimated liability for redress is calculated based on the total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum (or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher). The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies. Future estimated redress levels are based on historically observed redress per policy. A total of 5.4 million PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, which generated estimated revenues of US$4.1bn at 2012 average exchange rates. The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately US$5.1bn at 2012 average exchange rates. At 31 December 2012, the estimated total complaints expected to be received was 1.4 million, representing 25% of total policies sold. It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 1.8 million policies, representing 33% of total policies sold. This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as HSBC’s proactive contact exercise on certain policies (‘outbound contact’). During 2012, we increased the estimate of the total number of policies to be ultimately redressed, as the level of complaints received was higher in volume and over a more sustained period than previously assumed. This change in assumptions contributed approximately US$1.2bn to the increased provision for the year with the balance consisting of US$0.2bn attributable to regulatory changes and US$0.3bn other assumption and model changes. The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2012 and the number of claims expected in the future: Cumulative to 31 December 2012 Futureexpected Inbound complaints1 (000s of policies) 801 348 Outbound contact (000s of policies) 43 547 Response rate to outbound contact 37% 38% Average uphold rate per claim2 78% 79% Average redress per claim (US$) 2,325 2,290 1 Excludes invalid claims where the complainant has not held a PPI policy. 2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact. The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint. The main assumptions are likely to evolve over time as root cause analysis continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint volumes received, and we handle responses to our ongoing outbound contact. A 100,000 increase/decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$180m. Each 1% increase/decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$10m. 479 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and circumstances of each individual customer’s case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress for this matter. Interest rate derivatives A provision of US$598m was recognised relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK. Of this provision, US$272m related to the estimated redress payable to customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, US$254m covered the expected write-off by the bank of open derivative contracts balances, and US$72m covers estimated project costs. Following an FSA review of the sale of interest rate derivatives, HSBC agreed to pay redress to customers where mis-selling of these products has occurred under the FSA’s criteria. On 31 January 2013, the FSA announced the findings from their review of pilot cases completed by the banks. Following its review, the FSA clarified the eligibility criteria to ensure the programme is focused on those small businesses that were unlikely to understand the risks associated with those products. HSBC has also been working with the FSA and an independent ‘skilled person’ adviser to clarify the standards against which it should assess sales, and how redress should be calculated (for example, when it would be appropriate to assume a customer would have taken an alternative interest rate product). The extent to which HSBC is required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other customers during the review period and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress related to this programme. Brazilian labour, civil and fiscal claims Within ‘legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ above are labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions of US$506m (2011: US$481m) which includes provisions in respect of labour and overtime litigation claims brought by past employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank. The main assumptions involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. 33 Subordinated liabilities HSBC At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Subordinated liabilities At amortised cost 29,479 30,606 – subordinated liabilities 25,119 25,543 – preferred securities 4,360 5,063 Designated at fair value (Note 28) 21,559 21,611 – subordinated liabilities 16,863 17,503 – preferred securities 4,696 4,108 51,038 52,217 Subordinated liabilities HSBC Holdings 20,569 21,456 Other HSBC 30,469 30,761 51,038 52,217 Subordinated liabilities are capital securities which have been included in the capital base of HSBC and were issued in accordance with the rules and guidance in the FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook (‘GENPRU’). Where applicable, these capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the FSA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed at the first call date, interest coupons payable may step-up or become floating rate related to interbank rates, and in some cases may be subject to a floor. Interest rates on the floating rate capital securities are generally related to interbank offered rates. On the remaining capital securities, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%. 480 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRSs basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital. The IFRSs accounting and regulatory treatments differ due to the inclusion of issuance costs and regulatory amortisation. HSBC’s subordinated liabilities Tier 1 capital securities Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which investors are entitled, subject to certain conditions, to receive distributions which are non-cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank above ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. HSBC has the following qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for as liabilities: At 31 December First call date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings1 €600m 8.03% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities2 Jun 2012 – 776 US$1,250m 4.61% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Jun 2013 1,250 1,163 €1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2014 1,933 1,693 £500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Jun 2015 806 771 €750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2016 1,033 872 US$900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 Jun 2030 891 891 5,913 6,166 Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc1 £300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 480 378 £700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 1,131 1,084 1,611 1,462 1 See paragraph below, ‘Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc’. 2 In June 2012, HSBC redeemed these securities at par. Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc The five capital securities guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings and the two capital securities guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank are non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities issued by Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to the respective guarantor by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. The above preferred securities qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC Group and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank also qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank (on a solo and consolidated basis). These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and capital distributions, and distributions upon liquidation of the relevant issuer that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the relevant issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined) respectively. HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of its ordinary shares, or effect repurchases or redemptions of its ordinary shares, until the distribution on preferred securities has been paid in full. With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings – if (i) HSBC’s total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (ii) the Directors expect that, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, that (i) will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Holdings which have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank – if (i) any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively, or (ii) the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and 481 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (iii) in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect (ii) to occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. Upper tier 2 capital securities Upper tier 2 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. Such securities rank below lower tier 2 securities for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. HSBC has the following qualifying upper tier 2 securities in issue: At 31 December First calldate 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC Bank plc US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 750 750 US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 499 500 US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 301 300 1,550 1,550 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes Aug 1990 405 406 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (second series) Dec 1990 402 403 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (third series) Aug 1991 400 400 1,207 1,209 Other HSBC subsidiaries Other perpetual subordinated loan capital less than US$100m 21 21 Lower tier 2 capital securities Lower tier 2 capital securities are dated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. In accordance with the FSA’s GENPRU, the capital contribution of lower tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes on a straight-line basis in their final five years before maturity. HSBC has the following qualifying lower tier 2 securities in issue: At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC Bank plc £350m Callable subordinated variable coupon notes1 Jun 2012 Jun 2017 – 550 £500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes2 Sep 2015 Sep 2020 844 759 £350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes3 Mar 2018 Mar 2023 630 533 £300m 6.50% subordinated notes – Jul 2023 483 463 £350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes4 Nov 2025 Nov 2030 630 493 £500m 5.375% subordinated notes – Aug 2033 925 678 £225m 6.25% subordinated notes – Jan 2041 362 346 £600m 4.75% subordinated notes – Mar 2046 958 917 €500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes5 Sep 2015 Sep 2020 606 550 US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes – May 2025 394 374 5,832 5,663 Hang Seng Bank Limited US$300m Callable subordinated floating rate notes1 Jul 2012 Jul 2017 – 300 – 300 HSBC Bank Australia Limited AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes Nov 2015 Nov 2020 207 203 AUD42m Callable subordinated floating rate notes6 Mar 2013 Mar 2018 44 42 251 245 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022 164 158 MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 168 162 332 320 482 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC USA Inc. US$200m 7.808% capital securities Dec 2006 Dec 2026 200 200 US$200m 8.38% capital securities May 2007 May 2027 200 200 US$150m 9.50% subordinated debt – Apr 2014 152 154 US$150m 7.75% Capital Trust pass through securities Nov 2016 Nov 2026 150 150 US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes – Sep 2020 745 744 US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures – Jul 2097 214 214 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m 302 394 1,963 2,056 HSBC Bank USA, N.A. US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes – Apr 2014 1,002 1,009 US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes – Aug 2017 516 505 US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes – Aug 2020 1,263 1,259 US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes – Nov 2034 1,151 951 US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes – Aug 2035 864 712 US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes – Jan 2039 694 681 5,490 5,117 HSBC Finance Corporation US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities7 Nov 2015 Nov 2035 995 994 US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes8 – Jan 2021 2,180 2,177 3,175 3,171 HSBC Bank Brazil S.A. BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit – Feb 2015 289 206 BRL500m Subordinated floating rate certificates of deposit – Dec 2016 464 268 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m9 491 1,156 1,244 1,630 HSBC Mexico, S.A. MXN1,818m Non-convertible subordinated obligations10 – Sep 2018 139 130 MXN2,273m Non-convertible subordinated obligations10 – Dec 2018 173 162 US$300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations10,11 – Jun 2019 240 232 552 524 HSBC Bank Canada CAD400m 4.80% subordinated notes Apr 2017 Apr 2022 438 417 CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures – Mar 2021 201 195 CAD39m Floating rate debentures – Nov 2083 39 39 678 651 Other HSBC subsidiaries Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m9 650 676 650 676 Total of subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 30,469 30,761 Amounts owed to third parties by HSBC Holdings (page 480) 20,569 21,456 51,038 52,217 1 In June2012 and July 2012, HSBC redeemed its £350m callable subordinated variable coupon note and its US$300m callable subordinated floating rate notes respectively at par. 2 The interest rate payable after September 2015 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 0.82%. 3 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%. 4 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50%. 5 The interest margin increases by 0.5% from September 2015. 6 In February 2013, HSBC gave notice that it will call and redeem the notes at par in March 2013. 7 The distributions change in November 2015 to three-month dollar Libor plus 1.926%. 8 Approximately 25% of the senior subordinated notes is held by HSBC Holdings. 9 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in FSA’s GENPRU. 10 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with FSA’s GENPRU. 11 Approximately US$60m of the subordinated obligations are held by HSBC Holdings. 483 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Subordinated liabilities: – at amortised cost 11,907 12,450 – designated at fair value (Note 28) 14,618 15,398 26,525 27,848 HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities At 31 December First call date Maturity date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Amounts owed to third parties1 US$1,400m 5.25% subordinated notes – Dec 2012 – 1,438 US$488m 7.625% subordinated notes – May 2032 579 578 US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes – Nov 2032 258 257 US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes – May 2036 2,034 2,048 US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes – Sep 2037 3,202 2,634 US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes – Jun 2038 1,486 1,486 £250m 9.875% subordinated bonds2 Apr 2013 Apr 2018 442 445 £900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes3 Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,648 1,416 £650m 5.75% subordinated notes – Dec 2027 1,210 926 £650m 6.75% subordinated notes – Sep 2028 1,041 997 £750m 7.0% subordinated notes – Apr 2038 1,264 1,205 £900m 6.0% subordinated notes – Mar 2040 1,431 1,369 €1,000m 5.375% subordinated notes – Dec 2012 – 1,327 €1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes – Mar 2018 2,118 2,073 €1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes – Jun 2019 2,882 2,388 €700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes4 Jun 2015 Jun 2020 974 869 20,569 21,456 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings €600m 8.03% subordinated step-up cumulative notes5 Jun 2012 Jun 2040 – 775 US$1,250m 4.61% fixed/floating subordinated notes Jun 2013 Jun 2043 1,264 1,223 €1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes Mar 2014 Dec 2043 1,952 1,791 £500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2015 Jun 2040 806 771 €750m 5.13% fixed/floating subordinated notes Mar 2016 Dec 2044 1,043 941 US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891 891 5,956 6,392 26,525 27,848 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as lower tier 2 securities in accordance with guidance in the FSA’s GENPRU. 2 In February 2013, HSBC Holdings gave notice that it will call and redeem the bonds at par in April 2013. 3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3%. 4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%. 5 In June 2012, HSBC Holdings redeemed its €600m 8.03% subordinated step-up cumulative notes at par. 484 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 34 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 486 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: • except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives) are included in the ‘Due less than one month’ time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time; • financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket. Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket; • non financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities) are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket; • financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction; and • liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket. Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are classified based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket. Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down. 485 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities At 31 December 2012 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 141,532 – – – – – – – 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,303 – – – – – – – 7,303 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 22,743 – – – – – – – 22,743 Trading assets 382,654 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 408,811 – Reverse repos 92,525 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 118,682 – Other trading assets 290,129 – – – – – – – 290,129 Financial assets designated at fair value 437 576 425 526 239 2,462 3,545 25,372 33,582 Derivatives 354,222 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 357,450 – Trading 353,803 – – – – – – – 353,803 – Non-trading 419 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 3,647 Loans and advances to banks 104,397 22,683 5,859 2,292 5,032 6,238 2,027 4,018 152,546 – Reverse repos 28,833 3,101 2,071 356 963 138 – – 35,462 – Other loans and advances to banks: 75,564 19,582 3,788 1,936 4,069 6,100 2,027 4,018 117,084 Loans and advances to customers 221,242 69,709 47,507 29,659 71,928 59,100 194,147 304,331 997,623 – Personal 49,042 8,578 7,242 6,763 9,547 17,696 66,684 241,329 406,881 – Corporate and commercial 138,999 49,166 35,463 19,334 53,766 38,070 119,330 55,910 510,038 – Financial 33,201 11,965 4,802 3,562 8,615 3,334 8,133 7,092 80,704 Of which: – Reverse repos 19,847 10,640 2,310 1,050 554 250 – – 34,651 Financial investments 28,085 51,339 33,996 14,072 26,478 61,443 93,127 112,561 421,101 Assets held for sale 4,953 298 515 125 669 519 1,079 9,964 18,122 Accrued income 2,776 2,325 739 493 542 164 217 1,284 8,540 Other financial assets 13,383 3,486 1,759 337 745 332 372 3,170 23,584 Total financial assets 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 461,639 2,592,937 Non financial assets – – – – – – – 99,601 99,601 Total assets 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 561,240 2,692,538 486 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2012 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 22,742 – – – – – – – 22,742 Deposits by banks 79,100 12,029 1,957 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 107,429 – Repos 6,593 4,645 711 – – – – – 11,949 – Other deposits by banks 72,507 7,384 1,246 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 95,480 Customer accounts1 1,193,736 67,638 34,010 11,939 16,019 7,034 8,985 653 1,340,014 – Personal 539,792 35,260 21,939 7,900 11,100 4,687 3,916 307 624,901 – Corporate and commercial 473,370 24,018 9,044 2,925 3,354 1,069 1,193 305 515,278 – Financial 180,574 8,360 3,027 1,114 1,565 1,278 3,876 41 199,835 Of which: repos 22,446 3,869 1,047 345 567 344 – – 28,618 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 7,131 7 – – – – – – 7,138 Trading liabilities 240,212 29,003 4,707 1,820 5,197 3,867 9,736 10,021 304,563 – Repos 96,690 27,002 3,319 985 2,227 – – – 130,223 – Debt securities in issue 380 2,001 1,388 835 2,970 3,867 9,736 10,021 31,198 – Other trading liabilities 143,142 – – – – – – – 143,142 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 427 81 2,068 2,163 1,605 2,916 28,902 49,558 87,720 – Debt securities in issue: covered bonds – – – – – – 4,633 – 4,633 – Debt securities in issue: otherwise secured – 8 2,023 – 22 2,040 228 221 4,542 – Debt securities in issue: unsecured 392 49 1 2,117 1,357 690 23,495 15,933 44,034 – Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – – – 21 21,538 21,559 – Other 35 24 44 46 226 186 525 11,866 12,952 Derivatives 352,696 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 358,886 – Trading 352,195 – – – – – – – 352,195 – Non-trading 501 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 6,691 Debt securities in issue 23,738 12,368 6,355 2,840 27,992 11,992 29,100 5,076 119,461 – Covered bonds – – 1,133 422 757 2,328 1,920 486 7,046 – Otherwise secured 14,598 1,894 – 184 753 1,634 5,779 950 25,792 – Unsecured 9,140 10,474 5,222 2,234 26,482 8,030 21,401 3,640 86,623 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,475 242 433 254 188 166 45 – 3,803 Accruals 3,369 4,173 907 521 1,200 232 419 842 11,663 Subordinated liabilities 32 44 – 10 – 1,481 1,516 26,396 29,479 Other financial liabilities 19,837 4,881 2,115 519 867 599 1,409 2,190 32,417 Total financial liabilities 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 97,147 2,425,315 Non financial liabilities – – – – – – – 84,094 84,094 Total liabilities 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 181,241 2,509,409 487 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) At 31 December 2011 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 129,902 – – – – – – – 129,902 Items in the course of collection from other banks 8,208 – – – – – – – 8,208 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 20,922 – – – – – – – 20,922 Trading assets 318,031 7,432 1,712 225 3,033 18 – – 330,451 – Reverse repos 67,428 7,432 1,712 225 3,033 18 – – 79,848 – Other trading assets 250,603 – – – – – – – 250,603 Financial assets designated at fair value 595 565 687 595 139 2,748 4,145 21,382 30,856 Derivatives 343,980 155 275 136 423 606 605 199 346,379 – Trading 342,914 – – – – – – – 342,914 – Non-trading 1,066 155 275 136 423 606 605 199 3,465 Loans and advances to banks 123,370 25,288 5,460 2,573 14,441 3,120 3,346 3,389 180,987 – Reverse repos 35,372 3,854 – 1,047 135 1,301 201 – 41,910 – Other loans and advances to banks 87,998 21,434 5,460 1,526 14,306 1,819 3,145 3,389 139,077 Loans and advances to customers 211,680 70,941 45,294 28,769 53,251 63,518 186,601 280,375 940,429 – Personal 47,609 8,314 6,912 5,975 7,674 19,005 66,525 221,851 383,865 – Corporate and commercial 123,130 49,856 34,082 17,304 38,875 39,467 112,270 56,061 471,045 – Financial 40,941 12,771 4,300 5,490 6,702 5,046 7,806 2,463 85,519 Of which: – Reverse repos 23,704 10,450 2,306 3,710 – 250 1,000 – 41,420 Financial investments 25,546 50,070 39,698 14,879 21,902 45,266 90,953 111,730 400,044 Assets held for sale 4,922 5,767 4,427 3,233 2,934 7,223 7,064 2,238 37,808 Accrued income 2,787 2,479 765 393 361 231 339 1,596 8,951 Other financial assets 8,878 3,403 2,084 785 2,771 513 140 5,466 24,040 Total financial assets 1,198,821 166,100 100,402 51,588 99,255 123,243 293,193 426,375 2,458,977 Non financial assets – – – – – – – 96,602 96,602 Total assets 1,198,821 166,100 100,402 51,588 99,255 123,243 293,193 522,977 2,555,579 488 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2011 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 20,922 – – – – – – – 20,922 Deposits by banks 84,091 12,056 2,145 1,406 1,673 1,681 8,938 832 112,822 – Repos 16,301 336 – 979 – – – – 17,616 – Other deposits by banks 67,790 11,720 2,145 427 1,673 1,681 8,938 832 95,206 Customer accounts1 1,054,843 84,853 35,792 16,650 22,052 12,982 25,362 1,391 1,253,925 – Personal 488,966 40,522 19,917 6,433 14,057 6,214 12,260 723 589,092 – Corporate and commercial 405,015 32,088 12,754 9,148 3,933 5,484 8,272 599 477,293 – Financial 160,862 12,243 3,121 1,069 4,062 1,284 4,830 69 187,540 Of which: repos 13,299 6,921 3,444 5,330 1,412 379 – – 30,785 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 8,745 – – – – – – – 8,745 Trading liabilities 228,365 7,757 1,782 726 6,794 4,185 8,418 7,165 265,192 – Repos 77,900 6,056 716 – 2,160 6 – – 86,838 – Debt securities in issue 2,098 1,701 1,066 726 4,634 4,179 8,418 7,165 29,987 – Other trading liabilities 148,367 – – – – – – – 148,367 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 39 22 2,846 430 5,923 4,575 24,857 47,032 85,724 – Debt securities in issue: covered bonds – – – – 2 – 2,263 374 2,639 – Debt securities in issue: otherwise secured – – – – – 2,164 2,013 109 4,286 – Debt securities in issue: unsecured – – 2,802 385 3,115 2,093 20,091 16,786 45,272 – Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – 2,765 1 17 18,828 21,611 – Other 39 22 44 45 41 317 473 10,935 11,916 Derivatives 339,092 103 68 19 144 389 1,202 4,363 345,380 – Trading 338,788 – – – – – – – 338,788 – Non-trading 304 103 68 19 144 389 1,202 4,363 6,592 Debt securities in issue 31,806 15,900 4,920 5,577 15,926 14,438 36,120 6,326 131,013 – Covered bonds 4 627 383 52 1,548 2,277 4,133 1,119 10,143 – Otherwise secured 17,869 5,293 273 387 392 704 3,894 2,171 30,983 – Unsecured 13,933 9,980 4,264 5,138 13,986 11,457 28,093 3,036 89,887 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 16,412 1,164 462 225 2,536 343 297 561 22,000 Accruals 3,141 4,921 1,142 443 707 415 384 646 11,799 Subordinated liabilities 129 – – 300 381 10 3,026 26,760 30,606 Other financial liabilities 12,403 5,415 2,419 835 1,576 814 626 1,823 25,911 Total financial liabilities 1,799,988 132,191 51,576 26,611 57,712 39,832 109,230 96,899 2,314,039 Non financial liabilities – – – – – – – 75,447 75,447 Total liabilities 1,799,988 132,191 51,576 26,611 57,712 39,832 109,230 172,346 2,389,486 1 Includes US$366,203m (2011: US$387,655m) insured by guarantee schemes 489 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Loan and other credit-related commitments 2,455 3 8 5 8 25 75 98 2,677 At 31 December 2011 Loan and other credit-related commitments 5,280 2 36 3 6 19 508 143 5,997 Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Loan and other credit-related commitments 408,815 43,394 8,389 5,191 37,751 11,598 45,910 18,421 579,469 Of which: – Personal 153,255 6,999 704 185 19,049 1,216 1,616 8,159 191,183 – Corporate and commercial 225,899 34,368 6,365 4,951 15,412 9,488 37,179 8,593 342,255 – Financial 29,661 2,027 1,320 55 3,290 894 7,115 1,669 46,031 At 31 December 2011 Loan and other credit-related commitments 373,426 47,187 20,076 35,673 38,368 32,230 78,831 29,113 654,904 Of which: – Personal 246,570 7,569 2,124 4,848 4,431 7,507 12,262 7,706 293,017 – Corporate and commercial 114,741 36,866 15,289 19,589 25,890 20,767 57,853 18,281 309,276 – Financial 12,115 2,752 2,663 11,236 8,047 3,956 8,716 3,126 52,611 490 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments At 31 December 2012 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 353 – – – – – – – 353 Derivatives 3,768 – – – – – – – 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 6,275 2,395 3,992 – 15 35 635 28,328 41,675 Financial investments 23 – 8 – – – – 1,177 1,208 Other financial assets 4 – – – – – – – 4 Total financial assets 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 29,505 47,008 Non financial assets – – – – – – – 92,476 92,476 Total assets 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 121,981 139,484 Financial liabilities Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings 3,576 19 980 – – – 1,333 6,948 12,856 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – – – – – 1,258 21,937 23,195 – Debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,258 7,319 8,577 – Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – – – – 14,618 14,618 Derivatives 760 – – – – – – – 760 Debt securities in issue – – – – – 1,646 – 1,045 2,691 Accruals 223 171 190 21 – – – – 605 Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – – 11,907 11,907 Total financial liabilities 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 41,837 52,014 Non financial liabilities – – – – – – – 443 443 Total liabilities 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 42,280 52,457 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1,200 – – – – – – – 1,200 491 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments (continued) At 31 December 2011 Due less than 1 month Due between 1 and 3 months Due between 3 and 6 months Due between 6 and 9 months Due between 9 months and 1 year Due between 1 and 2 years Due between 2 and 5 years Due over 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: – balances with HSBC undertakings 316 – – – – – – – 316 Derivatives 3,568 – – – – – – – 3,568 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 5,518 973 4,028 366 1,312 – 1,994 13,857 28,048 Financial investments 22 – 9 – – – – 1,047 1,078 Other financial assets 1 – – – – – – – 1 Total financial assets 9,425 973 4,037 366 1,312 – 1,994 14,904 33,011 Non financial assets – – – – – – – 90,851 90,851 Total assets 9,425 973 4,037 366 1,312 – 1,994 105,755 123,862 Financial liabilities Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings 1,101 – 64 – – – 1,314 – 2,479 Financial liabilities designated at fair value – – – – 2,765 – 1,177 17,209 21,151 – Debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,177 4,576 5,753 – Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities – – – – 2,765 – – 12,633 15,398 Derivatives 1,067 – – – – – – – 1,067 Debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,612 1,001 2,613 Accruals 200 167 188 20 – – – – 575 Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – – 12,450 12,450 Other financial liabilities 885 – – – – – – – 885 Total financial liabilities 3,253 167 252 20 2,765 – 4,103 30,660 41,220 Non financial liabilities – – – – – – – 459 459 Total liabilities 3,253 167 252 20 2,765 – 4,103 31,119 41,679 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1,810 – – – – – – – 1,810 492 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 35 Foreign exchange exposures Structural foreign exchange exposures HSBC’s structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity and subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar functional currencies. Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. HSBC’s management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed on page 268. In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural foreign exchange exposures in the income statement. Net structural foreign exchange exposures At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Currency of structural exposure Pound sterling 27,305 22,668 Euro 23,945 22,400 Chinese renminbi 19,060 21,234 Hong Kong dollars 14,466 4,828 Brazilian reais 6,279 6,097 Mexican pesos 5,948 5,319 Canadian dollars 5,024 4,848 Indian rupees 3,967 3,967 Swiss francs 2,925 2,133 UAE dirhams 2,807 2,650 Saudi riyals 2,219 1,965 Malaysian ringgit 2,165 1,829 Turkish lira 1,787 1,565 Australian dollars 1,602 1,455 Korean won 1,520 1,411 Taiwanese dollars 1,513 1,457 Indonesian rupiah 1,317 1,235 Argentine pesos 1,054 984 Egyptian pounds 699 692 Vietnamese dong 762 686 Singapore dollars 874 670 Philippine pesos 787 663 Thailand baht 653 484 Qatari rial 599 608 Others, each less than US$500m 4,169 4,167 Total 133,446 116,015 Shareholders’ equity would decrease by US$2,562m (2011: US$2,146m) if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar. 36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities Assets pledged at 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 4,381 5,185 Loans and advances to banks 22,074 19,247 Loans and advances to customers 81,333 81,570 Debt securities 198,671 210,255 Equity shares 6,255 6,916 Other 1,090 1,003 313,804 324,176 The table above shows assets over which a legal charge has been granted to secure liabilities. The amount of such assets may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral for funding purposes or to cover liabilities. This is the case for securitisations and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued, plus any mandatory over-collateralisation, is less than the book value of financial assets available for funding or collateral purposes in the 493 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) relevant pool of assets. This is also the case where financial assets are placed with a custodian or settlement agent, which has a floating charge over all the financial assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions, including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. Collateral accepted as security for assets The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$295,709m (2011: US$302,285m). The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$202,662m (2011: US$188,682m). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements. 37 Non-controlling interests At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 5,159 4,656 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 2,728 2,712 7,887 7,368 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if not paid, the dividend may not be cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up. These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the FSA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. Dividends on the floating rate preferred securities are generally related to interbank offer rates. Included in the capital base of HSBC are non-cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 1 capital and cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 2 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in the FSA’s GENPRU. HSBC’s subsidiaries have the following preferred securities in issue: At 31 December First call date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC USA Inc. US$150m Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, series D Jul 1999 150 150 US$150m Cumulative preferred stock Oct 2007 150 150 US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F Apr 2010 518 518 US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G Jan 2011 374 374 US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H Jul 2011 374 374 HSBC Finance Corporation US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B Jun 2010 559 559 HSBC Bank Canada CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 176 171 CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 176 171 CAD250m Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, series E Jun 2014 251 245 2,728 2,712 494 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 38 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Issued and fully paid At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares1 9,238 8,934 Number US$m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each At 1 January 2012 17,868,085,646 8,934 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 238,587,766 119 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 369,335,252 185 At 31 December 2012 18,476,008,664 9,238 At 1 January 2011 17,686,155,902 8,843 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 11,354,577 6 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 170,575,167 85 At 31 December 2011 17,868,085,646 8,934 Number US$m HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each At 1 January 2012 and 31 December 20122 1,450,000 – At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 1,450,000 – 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights in respect of capital, dividends, voting and otherwise. 2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 1 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in GENPRU. Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue (‘dollar preference shares’) are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the dollar preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the dollar preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then-current dividend period. The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings. Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates. In such circumstances, holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference shares. HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the FSA. HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 in issue (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company. Other equity instruments Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC were issued in accordance with the rules and guidance in the FSA’s GENPRU. These securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the FSA. If not redeemed at the first call date interest coupons remain unchanged. 495 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Tier 1 capital securities Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any securities of lower or equal rank. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. At HSBC Holdings’ discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and which would rank pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue. The preference shares will be issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid. HSBC has the following qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity: At 31 December First call date 2012 US$m 2011 US$m US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 5,851 5,851 Shares under option Details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are given in Note 7. Aggregate options outstanding under these plans Number of HSBC Holdingsordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2012 159,703,771 2013 to 2018 £3.3116 – 7.9911 31,637,840 2013 to 2018 HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 2,180,263 2013 to 2018 €3.6361 – 9.5912 6,488,894 2013 to 2018 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 31 December 2011 216,078,250 2012 to 2017 £3.3116 – 7.9911 45,422,511 2012 to 2017 HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 3,176,265 2012 to 2017 €3.6361 – 9.5912 9,752,066 2012 to 2017 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 31 December 2010 249,242,968 2011 to 2016 £3.3116 – 8.4024 47,428,892 2011 to 2016 HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 3,128,508 2011 to 2016 €3.6361 – 9.5912 10,899,415 2011 to 2016 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 HSBC France plan When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and certain of its subsidiary companies, including HSBC Private Bank France, operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares. There were outstanding options over the shares of HSBC Private Bank France, a subsidiary of HSBC France. On exercise of those options, the HSBC Private Bank France shares were exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at the ratio of 2.099984 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share. On 31 October 2011, HSBC Private Bank France merged with HSBC France. Options held over shares of HSBC Private Bank France were converted into options over shares of HSBC France, at an exchange ratio of 7 HSBC France shares for 45 HSBC Private Bank France shares. The options outstanding at 31 October 2011 were adjusted to reflect the option exchange ratio. On exercise of these options, HSBC France shares would have been exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 13.499897 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share. 496 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) During 2011 and 2012 there were no HSBC Private Bank France shares issued and no shares were exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. During 2012, 22,645 options over HSBC France shares lapsed (2011: 141,525). At 31 December 2012 no options over HSBC France shares were outstanding. At 31 December 2012, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 (Private Banking France) held 989,502 (2011: 989,502) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. HSBC France options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Number of HSBC France shares exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2012 – 2012 €142.84 31 December 20111 22,645 2012 €142.84 31 December 2010 287,100 2011 to 2012 €20.80 – 22.22 1 These options replaced the options over shares in HSBC Private Bank France which were outstanding on 31 October 2011 prior to the merger taking place. HSBC Finance Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all outstanding options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Finance common shares were converted into options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance (2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same ratio. During 2012, 2,053,838 (2011: nil) options were exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 2,053,838 (2011: nil) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were delivered from The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003. During 2012, options over 375,700 (2011: 8,688,288) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. At 31 December 2012 no options over HSBC Holdings ordinary share were outstanding. At 31 December 2012, The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held a total of 281,477 (2011: 2,335,315) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 (2011: 1,455) ADSs. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Finance share plan Number of HSBC Holdingsordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2012 – 2012 US$9.29 31 December 2011 2,429,538 2012 US$9.29 31 December 2010 11,117,826 2011 to 2012 US$9.29 – 18.62 HSBC Bank Bermuda plans Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all outstanding options over HSBC Bank Bermuda shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda Share) by the average price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares over the five-day period to the completion of the acquisition. The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. During 2011 and 2012 there were no options exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and no shares were delivered from the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004. During 2012, options over 880,983 (2011: 2,108,830) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 (2011: 2,108,830) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee options. 497 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Bank Bermuda share plan Number ofHSBC Holdingsordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 31 December 2012 149,924 2013 US$9.32 – 10.33 31 December 2011 1,030,907 2012 to 2013 US$9.32 – 15.99 31 December 2010 2,339,033 2011 to 2013 US$9.32 – 15.99 Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares At 31 December 2012, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements, together with GPSP awards and restricted share awards granted under the HSBC Share Plan and/or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 364,082,766 (2011: 538,265,410). The total number of shares at 31 December 2012 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 18,009,459 (2011: 31,840,893). 39 Notes on the statement of cash flows Other non-cash items included in profit before tax HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,531 3,135 2,801 457 1 Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates – (208 ) (188 ) – – Revaluations on investment property (72 ) (118 ) (93 ) – – Share-based payment expense 988 1,162 812 55 57 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 9,358 13,553 15,059 – – Provisions 5,732 2,199 680 – – Impairment of financial investments 519 808 105 – – Charge/(credit) for defined benefit plans 476 (140 ) 526 – – Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums 246 (513 ) (815 ) 23 19 19,778 19,878 18,887 535 77 Change in operating assets HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change in loans to HSBC undertakings – – – (3,451 ) (4,548 ) Change in prepayments and accrued income 557 1,907 457 (5 ) 96 Change in net trading securities and net derivatives (36,829 ) 27,058 60,337 (507 ) (1,001 ) Change in loans and advances to banks 1,083 2,618 5,213 – – Change in loans and advances to customers (72,619 ) (30,853 ) (79,283 ) – – Change in financial assets designated at fair value (2,698 ) (583 ) 154 – – Change in other assets (6,015 ) (7,559 ) (145 ) (48 ) (36 ) (116,521 ) (7,412 ) (13,267 ) (4,011 ) (5,489 ) Change in operating liabilities HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Change in accruals and deferred income 78 (800 ) 716 10 258 Change in deposits by banks (5,393 ) 2,238 (14,288 ) – – Change in customer accounts 90,071 48,401 68,691 – – Change in debt securities in issue (11,552 ) (14,388 ) (1,495 ) 86 (45 ) Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,549 5,468 5,659 2,464 (475 ) Change in other liabilities 13,317 3,093 (17,011 ) 391 (152 ) 89,070 44,012 42,272 2,951 (414 ) 498 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Cash and cash equivalents HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings – – – 353 316 Cash and balances at central banks 141,532 129,902 57,383 – – Items in the course of collection from other banks 7,303 8,208 6,072 – – Loans and advances to banks of one month or less 148,232 169,858 189,197 – – Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months 25,379 26,226 28,087 – – Less: items in the course of transmission to other banks (7,138 ) (8,745 ) (6,663 ) – – 315,308 325,449 274,076 353 316 Interest and dividends HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Interest paid (18,412 ) (23,125 ) (21,405 ) (2,661 ) (2,392 ) Interest received 61,112 66,734 63,696 1,759 1,559 Dividends received 766 602 563 13,709 6,874 The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2012 was US$32,368m (2011: US$39,345m), of which US$20,464m (2011: US$25,819m) related to mandatory deposits at central banks. Disposal of subsidiaries and businesses US cards business US branch network Otherdisposals Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to banks – – 799 799 Loans and advances to customers 26,748 2,091 3,632 32,471 Financial investments – – 924 924 Prepayments and accrued income 572 – 53 625 Goodwill and intangible assets 318 7 276 601 Other assets 369 68 1,618 2,055 Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 28,007 2,166 7,302 37,475 Liabilities Deposits by banks – – 385 385 Customer accounts – 13,199 5,986 19,185 Liabilities under insurance contracts – – 1,080 1,080 Other liabilities 161 7 1,012 1,180 Total liabilities 161 13,206 8,463 21,830 Aggregate net assets at date of disposal, excluding cash and cash equivalents 27,846 (11,040 ) (1,161 ) 15,645 Non-controlling interests disposed – – (81 ) (81 ) Gain on disposal including costs to sell 3,148 864 355 4,367 Add back: costs to sell 72 15 56 143 Selling price 31,066 (10,161 ) (831 ) 20,074 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents received/(paid) as consideration 31,066 (10,091 ) (542 ) 20,433 Cash and cash equivalents sold – (70 ) (321 ) (391 ) Cash consideration received/(paid) up to 31 December 2012 31,066 (10,161 ) (863 ) 20,042 Cash still to be received at 31 December 2012 – – 32 32 Total cash consideration 31,066 (10,161 ) (831 ) 20,074 499 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) The completed US branch network disposal represents the sale of 195 US branches that were held for sale at 31 December 2011. HSBC received a total cash consideration of US$20,905m during 2012, which is included in the cash flow statement under the line ‘Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US cards business on page 375. For further details refer to page 471. 40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees HSBC HSBC Holdings 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees 80,364 75,672 49,402 49,402 Other contingent liabilities 209 259 – – 80,573 75,931 49,402 49,402 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 13,359 13,498 – – Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 419 87 – – Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 565,691 641,319 1,200 1,810 579,469 654,904 1,200 1,810 The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments excluding capital commitments, which are separately disclosed below, and guarantees and other contingent liabilities, which are mainly credit-related instruments including both financial and non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit. Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings and regulatory matters against Group companies are disclosed in Note 43. Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default. The amount of the loan commitments shown above reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers. As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements. Guarantees HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third-party customers and other entities within the HSBC Group. These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBC’s banking business. The principal types of guarantees provided, and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be required to make at 31 December 2012, were as follows: At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Guarantees in favour of third parties US$m Guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities US$m Guarantees in favour of third parties US$m Guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities US$m Guarantee type1 Financial guarantees2 32,036 36,800 26,830 36,800 Credit-related guarantees3 12,957 12,602 12,494 12,602 Other guarantees 35,371 – 36,348 – 80,364 49,402 75,672 49,402 1 The balances have been grouped by major category of guarantee, revised from prior periods to present financial guarantees separately. 2 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. 3 Credit related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the definition of a financial guarantee contracts under IAS 39. The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBC’s maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings. The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBC’s overall credit risk management policies and procedures. 500 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year. Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s annual credit review process. Financial Services Compensation Scheme At 31 December 2012, HSBC recognised an accrual of US$157m in respect of its share of the estimated Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) levy (31 December 2011: US$87m). The FSCS confirmed in February 2013 that the first of three annual instalments of approximately £363m (US$587m) will be levied in total on participating financial institutions in Scheme Year 2013/14 to repay the balance of the loan principal that is not expected to be recovered. The accrual recognised at 31 December 2012 represents HSBC’s share of the interest on the borrowings outstanding and also its share of the principal to be levied over each of the next three years. The interest rate to be applied on outstanding borrowings increased from 12-month Libor plus 30 basis points to 12-month Libor plus 100 basis points from 1 April 2012. Commitments In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 500, at 31 December 2012 HSBC had US$607m (2011: US$715m) of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$197m (2011: US$272m) of capital commitments authorised but not contracted for. Associates HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities amounted to US$46,148m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$34,311m). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable. 41 Lease commitments Finance lease commitments HSBC leases land and buildings (including branches) and equipment from third parties under finance lease arrangements to support its operations. At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Total futureminimumpaymentsUS$m Futureinterest chargesUS$m Present value of finance lease commitmentsUS$m Total futureminimumpaymentsUS$m Futureinterest chargesUS$m Present valueof financeleasecommitmentsUS$m Lease commitments: – no later than one year 81 (21 ) 60 98 (26 ) 72 – later than one year and nolater than five years 153 (71 ) 82 216 (99 ) 117 – later than five years 196 (34 ) 162 362 (92 ) 270 430 (126 ) 304 676 (217 ) 459 At 31 December 2012, future minimum sublease payments of US$244m (2011: US$413m) are expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2012, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years. At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Land and buildings US$m Equipment US$m Land and buildings US$m Equipment US$m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: – no later than one year 943 23 1,130 18 – later than one year and no later than five years 2,495 23 2,656 18 – later than five years 2,246 – 2,496 – 5,684 46 6,282 36 501 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) At 31 December 2012, future minimum sublease payments of US$14m (2011: US$17m) are expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. In 2012, US$1,166m (2011: US$973m; 2010: US$888m) was charged to ‘General and administrative expenses’ in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$1,149m (2011: US$952m; 2010: US$869m) related to minimum lease payments, US$17m (2011: US$20m; 2010: US$18m) to contingent rents, and US$0.4m (2011: US$1m; 2010: US$1m) to sublease payments. The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses. Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property and general plant and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved. Lease rentals arising during the lease terms will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates. Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 Total futureminimum paymentsUS$m Unearned finance incomeUS$m Present valueUS$m Total futureminimum paymentsUS$m Unearned finance incomeUS$m Present valueUS$m Lease receivables: – no later than one year 3,712 (379 ) 3,333 3,766 (459 ) 3,307 – later than one year and no later than five years 8,414 (966 ) 7,448 8,618 (1,055 ) 7,563 – later than five years 5,277 (951 ) 4,326 5,969 (1,204 ) 4,765 17,403 (2,296 ) 15,107 18,353 (2,718 ) 15,635 At 31 December 2012, unguaranteed residual values of US$253m (2011: US$267m) had been accrued, and the accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$(3)m (2011: US$25m). No contingent rents were received in 2012 (2011: nil). 42 Special purpose entities HSBC enters into certain transactions with customers in the ordinary course of business which involve the establishment of special purpose entities (‘SPE’s) to facilitate or secure customer transactions. HSBC structures that utilise SPEs are authorised centrally when they are established, to ensure appropriate purpose and governance. The activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management. SPEs are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1e. Total consolidated assets held by SPEs by balance sheet classification ConduitsUS$bn Securit- isationsUS$bn Money market fundsUS$bn Non-money market investment fundsUS$bn TotalUS$bn At 31 December 2012 Cash 0.6 – – 0.2 0.8 Trading assets – 0.5 – 1.5 2.0 Financial assets designated at fair value 0.1 – – 7.4 7.5 Derivatives – – – 0.2 0.2 Loans and advances to banks – 1.5 – – 1.5 Loans and advances to customers 11.3 7.0 – – 18.3 Financial investments 25.0 – – – 25.0 Other assets 1.4 – – 1.6 3.0 38.4 9.0 – 10.9 58.3 502 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) ConduitsUS$bn Securit- isationsUS$bn Money market fundsUS$bn Non-money market investment funds US$bn TotalUS$bn At 31 December 2011 Cash 0.8 0.3 – 0.3 1.4 Trading assets 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.4 1.2 Financial assets designated at fair value 0.1 – – 6.5 6.6 Derivatives – 0.1 – – 0.1 Loans and advances to banks – 1.2 – – 1.2 Loans and advances to customers 10.5 8.0 – – 18.5 Financial investments 25.8 – – – 25.8 Other assets 1.6 – – – 1.6 38.9 10.1 0.2 7.2 56.4 HSBC’s maximum exposure to SPEs The following table shows the total assets of the various types of SPEs and the amount of funding provided by HSBC to these SPEs. The table also shows HSBC’s maximum exposure to the SPEs and, within that exposure, the liquidity and credit enhancements provided by HSBC. The maximum exposures to SPEs represent HSBC’s maximum possible risk exposure that could occur as a result of the Group’s arrangements and commitments to SPEs. The maximum amounts are contingent in nature, and may arise as a result of drawdowns under liquidity facilities, where these have been provided, and any other funding commitments, or as a result of any loss protection provided by HSBC to the SPEs. The conditions under which such exposure might arise differ depending on the nature of each SPE and HSBC’s involvement with it. Total assets of consolidated and unconsolidated SPEs and HSBC’s funding and maximum exposure Consolidated SPEs Unconsolidated SPEs Total assetsUS$bn Funding provided by HSBCUS$bn Liquidity and credit enchance- mentsUS$bn HSBC’s maximum exposureUS$bn Total assetsUS$bn Funding provided by HSBCUS$bn HSBC’s maximum exposureUS$bn At 31 December 2012 Conduits 38.4 28.9 32.4 43.1 – – – Securities investment conduits 26.6 28.8 18.1 28.8 – – – Multi-seller conduits 11.8 0.1 14.3 14.3 – – – Securitisations 9.0 2.6 – 4.7 6.8 – – Money market funds – – – – 64.2 1.7 1.7 Constant net asset value funds – – – – 51.7 0.8 0.8 Other – – – – 12.5 0.9 0.9 Non-money market investment funds 10.9 10.2 – 10.2 303.3 5.9 5.9 Other – – – – 20.0 5.2 5.3 58.3 41.7 32.4 58.0 394.3 12.8 12.9 At 31 December 2011 Conduits 38.9 27.7 37.1 48.5 – – – Securities investment conduits 27.9 27.4 22.1 33.5 – – – Multi-seller conduits 11.0 0.3 15.0 15.0 – – – Securitisations 10.1 1.6 0.1 3.8 8.1 – – Money market funds 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 73.9 0.9 0.9 Constant net asset value funds – – – – 54.4 0.7 0.7 Other 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 19.5 0.2 0.2 Non-money market investment funds 7.2 6.9 – 6.9 260.8 1.7 1.7 Other – – – – 19.4 3.7 4.6 56.4 36.4 37.2 59.4 362.2 6.3 7.2 503 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s) and multi-seller conduits. Securities investment conduits Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, holds asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) on behalf of HSBC. At 31 December 2012, Solitaire held US$10.0bn of ABSs (2011: US$10.6bn). These are included within the disclosures of ABS ‘held through consolidated SPEs’ on page 187. HSBC’s other SICs, Mazarin, Barion Funding Limited (‘Barion’) and Malachite Funding Limited (‘Malachite’), evolved from the restructuring of HSBC’s sponsored structured investment vehicles (‘SIV’s) in 2008. Solitaire During the year Solitaire redeemed the commercial paper (‘CP’) held by third parties, and is currently funded entirely by CP issued to HSBC. Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it so long as HSBC purchases the CP issued, which it intends to do for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, there were no amounts drawn under the liquidity facility provided by HSBC at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$9.3bn). At 31 December 2012, HSBC held US$13.0bn of CP, which represented HSBC’s maximum exposure. At 31 December 2011, maximum exposure of US$15.6bn was represented by liquidity facility including undrawn amounts. Mazarin HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin’s assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lower of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets. At 31 December 2012, this amounted to US$8.4bn (2011: US$9.5bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties. At 31 December 2012, HSBC held 1.3% of Mazarin’s capital notes (2011: 1.3%) which have a par value of US$17m (2011: US$17m) and a carrying amount of nil (2011: nil). Barion and Malachite HSBC’s primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles. At 31 December 2012, this amounted to US$7.4bn (2011: US$8.4bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially all held by third parties. At 31 December 2012, HSBC held 3.7% of the capital notes issued by these vehicles (2011: 3.7%) which have a par value of US$36m (2011: US$35m) and a carrying amount of US$1.7m (2011: US$1.1m). Multi-seller conduits These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for HSBC’s clients. HSBC’s maximum exposure is equal to the transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits. First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities. The following table sets out the weighted average life of the asset portfolios for the above mentioned conduits. Weighted average life of portfolios Solitaire Other SICs Total SICs Total multi- seller conduits Weighted average life (years) At 31 December 2012 6.1 4.5 5.2 2.8 At 31 December 2011 5.9 4.1 4.9 2.0 504 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Securitisations HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and for capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities to investors to fund the cash purchases. HSBC’s maximum exposure is the aggregate of any holdings of notes issued by these vehicles and the reserve account positions intended to provide credit support under certain pre-defined circumstances to senior note holders. In addition, HSBC uses SPEs to mitigate the capital absorbed by some of the customer loans and advances it has originated. Credit derivatives are used to transfer the credit risk associated with these customer loans and advances to an SPE, using securitisations commonly known as synthetic securitisations by which the SPE writes credit default swap protection to HSBC. The SPE is funded by the issuance of notes with the cash held as collateral against the credit default protection. From a UK regulatory perspective, the credit protection issued by the SPE in respect of the customer loans allows the risk weight of the loans to be replaced by the risk weight of the collateral in the SPE and as a result mitigates the capital absorbed by the customer loans. Any notes issued by the SPE and held by HSBC attract the appropriate risk weight under the relevant regulatory regime. These SPEs are consolidated when HSBC is exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of ownership. Money market funds HSBC has established and manages a number of money market funds which provide customers with tailored investment opportunities within narrow and well-defined objectives. HSBC’s maximum exposure to money market funds is represented by HSBC’s investment in the units of each fund, which at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$1.7bn (2011: US$1.1bn). Non-money market investment funds HSBC has established a large number of non-money market investment funds to enable customers to invest in a range of assets, typically equities and debt securities. HSBC’s maximum exposure to non-money market investment funds is represented by its investment in the units of each fund which at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$16.1bn (2011: US$8.6bn). Other HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course of business for a number of purposes, for example, structured transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions. In certain transactions HSBC is exposed to risk often referred to as gap risk. Gap risk typically arises in transactions where the aggregate potential claims against the SPE by HSBC pursuant to one or more derivatives could be greater than the value of the collateral held by the SPE and securing such derivatives. HSBC often mitigates such gap risk by incorporating in the SPE transaction features which allow for deleveraging, a managed liquidation of the portfolio, or other mechanisms including trade restructuring or unwinding the trade. Following the inclusion of such risk reduction mechanisms, HSBC has, in certain circumstances, retained all or a portion of the underlying exposure in the transaction. In these circumstances, HSBC assesses whether the exposure retained causes a requirement under IFRSs to consolidate the SPE. When this retained exposure represents ABSs, it has been included in ‘Nature of HSBC’s exposures’ on page 259. Third-party sponsored SPEs Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, conduits and securitisations under normal banking arrangements on standard market terms. These exposures are not considered significant to HSBC’s operations. Additional off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments Additional off-balance sheet commitments such as financial guarantees, letters of credit and commitments to lend are disclosed in Note 41. 505 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Leveraged finance transactions Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBC’s intention to sell the loan after origination. Further information is provided on page 190. 43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters is material, either individually or in the aggregate. HSBC recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these matters when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. While the outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters as at 31 December 2012 (see Note 32). Securities litigation As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 State Attorneys General relating to real estate lending practices, Household International (now HSBC Finance) and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class action law suit, Jaffe v Household International Inc, et al No 2. C 5893 (N.D.Ill, filed 19 August 2002). The complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between 30 July 1999 and 11 October 2002. The claims alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which ultimately led to the 2002 State settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the restatement. A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs. Following post-trial briefing, the District Court ruled that various legal challenges to the verdict, including as to loss causation and other matters, would not be considered until after a second phase of the proceedings addressing issues of reliance and the submission of claims by class members had been completed. The District Court ruled on 22 November 2010 that claim forms should be mailed to class members to ascertain which class members may have claims for damages arising from reliance on the misleading statements found by the jury. The District Court also set out a method for calculating damages for class members who filed claims. As previously reported, lead plaintiffs, in court filings in March 2010, estimated that damages could range ‘somewhere between US$2.4bn to US$3.2bn to class members’, before pre-judgement interest. In December 2011, the report of the court-appointed claims administrator to the District Court stated that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate amount of these claims was approximately US$2.23bn. Defendants filed legal challenges asserting that the presumption of reliance was defeated as to the class and raising various objections with respect to compliance with the claims form requirements as to certain claims. In September 2012, the District Court rejected defendants’ arguments that the presumption of reliance generally had been defeated either as to the class or as to particular institutional claimants. In addition, the District Court has made various rulings with respect to the validity of specific categories of claims, and held certain categories of claims valid, certain categories of claims invalid, and directed further proceedings before a court-appointed Special Master to address objections regarding certain other claim submission issues. In light of those rulings and through various agreements of the parties, currently there is approximately US$1.37bn in claims as to which there remain no unresolved objections relating to the claims form submissions. In addition, approximately US$800m in claims remain to be addressed before the Special Master with respect to various claims form objections, with a small portion of those potentially subject to further trial proceedings. Therefore, based upon proceedings to date, the current range of a possible final judgement, prior to imposition of pre-judgement interest (if any), is between approximately US$1.37bn and US$2.17bn. With the imposition of pre-judgement interest calculated through 31 December 2012, the top-end of a possible final judgement is approximately US$2.7bn. The District Court may wait for a resolution of all disputes as to all claims before entering final judgement, or the District Court may enter a partial judgement on fewer 506 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) than all claims pending resolution of disputes as to the remaining claims. Post-verdict legal challenges remain to be addressed by the District Court. Despite the jury verdict and the various rulings of the District Court, HSBC continues to believe that it has meritorious grounds for appeal of one or more of the rulings in the case, and intends to appeal the District Court’s final judgement, partial or otherwise. Upon final judgement, partial or otherwise, HSBC Finance will be required to provide security for the judgement in order to suspend its execution while the appeal is on-going by either depositing cash in an interest-bearing escrow account or posting an appeal bond in the amount of the judgement (including any pre-judgement interest awarded). Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible damages. HSBC believes it has meritorious grounds for appeal on matters of both liability and damages and will argue on appeal that damages should be nil or a relatively insignificant amount. If the Appeals Court rejects or only partially accepts HSBC’s arguments, the amount of damages, based upon the claims submitted and the potential application of pre-judgement interest may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to somewhere in the region of US$2.7bn (or higher should plaintiffs successfully cross-appeal certain issues related to the validity of specific claims). Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC In December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme and a trustee was appointed for the liquidation of his firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), an SEC-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Since his appointment, the trustee has been recovering assets and processing claims of Madoff Securities customers. Madoff subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges and is serving a 150 year prison sentence. He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ money in securities and, upon request, return their profits and principal, he in fact never invested in securities and used other customers’ money to fulfil requests for the return of profits and principal. The relevant US authorities are continuing their investigations into his fraud, and have brought charges against others, including certain former employees and the former auditor of Madoff Securities. Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC to date, HSBC estimates that the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. Plaintiffs (including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee) have commenced Madoff-related proceedings against numerous defendants in a multitude of jurisdictions. Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions. Certain suits (which included four US putative class actions) allege that the HSBC defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s fraud and breached various duties to the funds and fund investors. In November 2011, the US District Court Judge overseeing three related putative class actions in the Southern District of New York dismissed all claims against the HSBC defendants on forum non conveniens grounds, but temporarily stayed this ruling as to one of the actions against the HSBC defendants – the claims of investors in Thema International Fund plc – in light of a proposed amended settlement agreement, pursuant to which, subject to various conditions, the HSBC defendants had agreed to pay from US$52.5m up to a maximum of US$62.5m. In December 2011, the court lifted this temporary stay and dismissed all remaining claims against the HSBC defendants, and declined to consider preliminary approval of the settlement. In light of the court’s decisions, HSBC terminated the settlement agreement. The Thema plaintiff contests HSBC’s right to terminate. Plaintiffs in all three actions have filed notices of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was completed in September 2012; oral argument is expected in early 2013. In November and December 2012, HSBC settled two of the individual claims commenced by investors in Thema International Fund plc against HSBC in the Irish High Court. In December 2010, the Madoff Securities trustee commenced suits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court. The US action (which also names certain funds, investment managers, and other entities and individuals) sought US$9bn in damages and additional recoveries from HSBC and 507 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) the various co-defendants. It sought damages against HSBC for allegedly aiding and abetting Madoff’s fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. In July 2011, after withdrawing the case from the Bankruptcy Court in order to decide certain threshold issues, the US District Court Judge dismissed the trustee’s various common law claims on the grounds that the trustee lacks standing to assert them. In December 2011, the trustee filed a notice of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was completed in April 2012, and oral argument was held in November 2012. A decision is expected in 2013. The District Court returned the remaining claims to the US Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings. Those claims seek, pursuant to US bankruptcy law, recovery of unspecified amounts received by HSBC from funds invested with Madoff, including amounts that HSBC received when it redeemed units HSBC held in the various funds. HSBC acquired those fund units in connection with financing transactions HSBC had entered into with various clients. The trustee’s US bankruptcy law claims also seek recovery of fees earned by HSBC for providing custodial, administration and similar services to the funds. Between September 2011 and April 2012, the HSBC defendants and certain other defendants moved again to withdraw the case from the Bankruptcy Court. The District Court granted those withdrawal motions as to certain issues, and briefing and oral arguments on the merits of the withdrawn issues are now complete. The District Court has issued rulings on two of the withdrawn issues, but decisions with respect to all other issues are still pending and are expected in early 2013. The trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers of money from Madoff Securities to or through HSBC, on the grounds that the HSBC defendants actually or constructively knew of Madoff’s fraud. HSBC has not been served with the trustee’s English action. Between October 2009 and April 2012, Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (‘Fairfield’), funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the British Virgin Islands (‘BVI’) and the US against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who invested in the Fairfield funds. The Fairfield actions seek restitution of amounts paid to the defendants in connection with share redemptions, on the ground that such payments were made by mistake, based on inflated values resulting from Madoff’s fraud, and some actions also seek recovery of the share redemptions under BVI insolvency law. The actions in the US are currently stayed in the Bankruptcy Court pending developments in related appellate litigation in the BVI. There are many factors which may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings, including but not limited to the circumstances of the fraud, the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in such proceedings. For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all such claims but they could be significant. In any event, HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously. US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices. These consent orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board to align their processes with the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required. These consent orders required an independent review of foreclosures (the ‘Independent Foreclosure Review’) pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any customer was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. As required by the consent orders, an independent consultant was retained to conduct that review. On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board, pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review will cease and we will make a cash payment of US$96m into a fund that will be used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, will provide other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. These actions form HSBC’s portion 508 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) of a larger agreement announced by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in January 2013 involving HSBC and twelve other mortgage servicers subject to foreclosure consent orders pursuant to which the mortgage servicers would pay, in the aggregate, in excess of US$9.3bn in cash payments and other assistance to help eligible borrowers. Pursuant to these agreements, the Independent Foreclosure Reviews will cease and be replaced by a broader framework under which all eligible borrowers will receive compensation regardless of whether they filed a request for independent review of their foreclosure and regardless of whether the borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. Borrowers who receive compensation will not be required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be precluded from pursuing litigation concerning foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices. For participating servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance, fulfilment of the terms of these agreements will satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of these consent orders. These consent orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the consent orders. Pursuant to the agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, however, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has agreed that it will not assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with respect to past mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related practices addressed in the consent orders, provided the terms of the agreement are fulfilled. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s agreement not to assess civil money penalties is further conditioned on HSBC North America making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans within two years. The Federal Reserve Board has agreed that any assessment of civil money penalties by the Federal Reserve Board will reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans. In addition, the agreement does not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. Separate from the consent orders and settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, it has been announced that the five largest US mortgage servicers (not including HSBC Group companies) have reached a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HNAH, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. HSBC recognised provisions of US$257m in 2011 to reflect the estimated liability associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the US mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitisation trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and the related liability are properly those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. have been named as defendants in a number of actions in connection with residential mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. These include an action filed in September 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (‘FHFA’). This action is one of a series of similar actions filed against 17 financial institutions alleging violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with the sale of private-label RMBS purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, primarily from 2005 to 2008. This action, along with all of the similar FHFA RMBS actions, was transferred to a single judge, who directed the defendant in the first-filed matter to file a motion to dismiss. In May 2012, the District Court filed its decision denying the motion to dismiss FHFA’s securities law claims and granting the motion to dismiss FHFA’s negligent misrepresentation 509 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) claims. The District Court’s ruling will form the basis for rulings on the other matters, including the action filed against HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Subsequently, the defendant in the first-filed matter sought leave to appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on certain issues raised in the motion to dismiss. The District Court and the Court of Appeals granted the request for leave to appeal, and this appeal is pending before the Court of Appeals. In December 2012, the District Court directed the parties to schedule mediation with the Magistrate Judge assigned to this action. However, mediation has not yet been scheduled. In 2012, HSBC Finance received notice of several claims from claimants related to its activities as sponsor and the activities of its subsidiaries as originators in connection with RMBSs purchased between 2005 and 2007. The claims are currently being evaluated and discussions continue to be held with the claimants, but it has not been concluded that these claims are procedurally or substantively valid. In December 2010 and February 2011, HSBC Bank USA has received subpoenas from the SEC seeking production of documents and information relating to its involvement and the involvement of its affiliates in specified private label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. HSBC Bank USA has also had preliminary contacts with other government authorities exploring the role of trustees in private label RMBS transactions. In February 2011, HSBC Bank USA also received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s Office, Southern District of New York seeking production of documents and information relating to loss mitigation efforts with respect to residential mortgages in the State of New York. In January 2012, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. was served with a Civil Investigative Demand from the Massachusetts State Attorney General seeking documents, information and testimony related to the sale of RMBS to public and private customers in the State of Massachusetts from January 2005 to the present. HSBC expects this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the US real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, HSBC Group companies may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either individually or as a member of a group. HSBC is unable to estimate reliably the financial effect of any action or litigation relating to these matters. As situations develop it is possible that any related claims could be significant. Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the indirect parent of that company, HNAH, entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Federal Reserve Board (the ‘Orders’). These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across the Group’s US businesses, including various issues relating to US Bank Secrecy Act (‘BSA’) and anti-money laundering (‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the Orders to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, in December 2012, HSBC, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements to achieve a resolution with US and UK government agencies that have investigated HSBC’s conduct related to inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws, including the previously reported investigations by the DoJ, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the US Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (‘FinCEN’) in connection with AML/BSA compliance, including cross-border transactions involving our cash handling business in Mexico and banknotes business in the US, and the DoJ, the New York County District Attorney’s Office, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’), the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regarding historical transactions involving Iranian parties and other parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions. As part of the resolution, HSBC entered into a deferred prosecution agreement among HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, the DoJ, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of West Virginia (the ‘US DPA’), and a deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney, and consented to a cease and desist order and, along with HNAH, consented to a monetary penalty order with the Federal Reserve. In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into the US DPA, an agreement and consent orders with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and a consent order with FinCEN. HSBC also entered into an undertaking with the UK Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’) to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to anti-money laundering and sanctions requirements over a five-year term. Under these agreements, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities and will continue to cooperate fully with US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action to strengthen their compliance policies and procedures. Over the five-year term of the agreement with the DoJ and FSA, an independent monitor (who will, for FSA purposes, be a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (‘FSMA’)) will evaluate HSBC’s progress in fully implementing these and other measures 510 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) it recommends, and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of HSBC’s compliance function. If HSBC fulfils all of the requirements imposed by the US DPA and other agreements, the DOJ’s charges against it will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period. The US DPA remains subject to certain proceedings before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s Office may prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the US DPA if HSBC breaches the terms of the US DPA. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the US DPA and the FSA undertaking to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, the settlement with regulators does not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC’s compliance with applicable anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws. In July 2012, HSBC Mexico paid a fine imposed by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission amounting to 379m Mexican pesos (approximately US$28m), in connection with non-compliance with anti-money laundering systems and controls. US tax and broker-dealer investigations HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain Group companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting requirements. In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ and is cooperating with the investigation. Other HSBC entities are also cooperating with the relevant US authorities, including with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a summons from the US Internal Revenue Service directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. HSBC Bank USA has cooperated fully by providing responsive documents in its possession in the US to the US Internal Revenue Service. Also in April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a subpoena from the SEC directing HSBC Bank USA to produce records in the US related to, among other things, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA’s cross-border policies and procedures and adherence to US broker-dealer and investment adviser rules and regulations when dealing with US resident clients. HSBC Bank USA continues to cooperate with the SEC. HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA has also produced records and other documents to the SEC and is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. Based on the facts currently known in respect of each of these investigations, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the ongoing investigations will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amounts of any fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that any fines and/or penalties could be significant. Investigations and reviews into the setting of London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates Various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world including in the UK, the US, Canada, the EU, Switzerland and Asia, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. Several of these panel banks have reached settlements with various regulatory authorities. As certain HSBC entities are members of such panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory demands for information and are cooperating with those investigations and reviews. Based on the facts currently known, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the resolution of these regulatory investigations and reviews, including the timing. The potential impact and size of any fines or penalties that could be imposed on HSBC cannot be measured reliably. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of Libor, including putative class action lawsuits which have been consolidated before the US District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints in those actions assert claims against HSBC and other panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange Act, and 511 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) state law. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact on HSBC. 44 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. Compensation of Key Management Personnel HSBC 2012 US$m 2011 US$m 2010 US$m Short-term employee benefits 37 34 39 Post-employment benefits 1 2 3 Other long-term employee benefits 10 7 1 Share-based payments 43 53 49 91 96 92 Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties Particulars of advances (loans and quasi-loans), credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2012 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown below: At 31 December 2012 US$m 2011 US$m Advances and credits 7 8 Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below. The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year. 2012 2011 Balance at 31 December US$m Highest amounts outstanding during year US$m Balance at 31 December US$m Highest amounts outstanding during year US$m Key Management Personnel1 Advances and credits 153 242 112 120 Guarantees 8 12 12 12 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules. The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features. 512 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel At 31 December 2012 (000s) 2011 (000s) Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 358 545 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 14,713 15,384 Number of HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 held beneficially and non-beneficially 300 300 Number of HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 held beneficially and non-beneficially 5 – 15,376 16,229 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 22. Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were as follows: 2012 2011 Highestbalance during the year1US$m Balance at 31 December1US$m Highestbalance during the year1US$m Balance at 31 December1US$m Amounts due from joint ventures: – subordinated 5 1 6 5 – unsubordinated 391 210 459 441 Amounts due from associates: – unsubordinated 3,554 2,736 3,117 2,569 3,950 2,947 3,582 3,015 Amounts due to joint ventures 135 1 195 133 Amounts due to associates 854 264 587 475 989 265 782 608 Commitments 326 45 184 92 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2012, US$5bn (2011: US$4.6bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies. Fees of US$20m (2011: US$20m) were earned by HSBC companies for these management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans. HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of US$285m (2011: US$1.2bn) with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$1.9m (2011: US$3m). The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities. At 31 December 2012, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$31bn (2011: US$25bn), the swaps had a positive fair value of US$5.2bn (2011: positive fair value of US$5.6bn) to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$7.1bn (2011: US$6.9bn) to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC earned no interest (2011: nil). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. In order to satisfy diversification requirements, there are special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme. The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC. Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that provides the Trustee with a high level of confidence 513 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) that would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc. With the exception of the special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value, determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. In December 2011 HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’) purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value of US$34m, determined by the Scheme’s independent third party advisers. This followed an agreement by HSBC Asia Holdings BV to make a contribution of the same amount to ISRBS. No gain or loss arose on the transaction. ISRBS entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2012, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.8bn (2011: US$1.7bn) and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$328m to the scheme (2011: US$297m). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings’ principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 25. Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries were as follows: 2012 2011 Highestbalance during the year1US$m Balance at 31 December1US$m Highestbalance during the year1US$m Balance at 31 December1US$m Assets Cash at bank 429 353 471 316 Derivatives 4,122 3,768 4,220 3,568 Loans and advances 41,675 41,675 28,821 28,048 Financial investments 1,208 1,208 2,093 1,078 Investments in subsidiaries 92,234 92,234 93,008 90,621 Total related party assets 139,668 139,238 128,613 123,631 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 12,856 12,856 3,129 2,479 Derivatives 1,536 760 1,181 1,067 Subordinated liabilities: – at amortised cost 2,493 1,696 2,609 2,437 – designated at fair value 4,271 4,260 4,627 3,955 Total related party liabilities 21,156 19,572 11,546 9,938 Guarantees 49,560 49,402 49,527 49,402 Commitments 1,811 1,200 2,753 1,810 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest month-end balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and were on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. There were no exceptions (2011: US$63m) in respect of loans to HSBC subsidiaries from HSBC Holdings made at an agreed zero per cent interest rate. Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company. HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 7 to the accounts. 514 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 45 Events after the balance sheet date On 7 January 2013, Industrial Bank Co., Ltd. (‘Industrial Bank’), a principal associate, completed a private placement of additional share capital to a number of third parties, thereby diluting the Group’s equity holding from 12.8% to 10.9%. As a result of this and other factors, the Group considers it is no longer in a position to exercise significant influence over Industrial Bank and ceased to account for the investment as an associate from that date, giving rise to an accounting gain of HKD9.5bn or US$1.2bn. Thereafter, the holding is recognised as an available-for-sale financial investment. The disposal of the second tranche of shares in Ping An was completed on 6 February 2013. A description of this disposal is provided in Note 26. On 19 February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank Panama S.A., recorded as part of our Latin America segment, to Bancolombia S.A. for a total consideration of US$2.1bn in cash. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions and is expected to complete by the third quarter of 2013. The assets and liabilities of these operations were not classified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 as the sale was not yet considered highly probable at that time. On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board in relation to the Independent Foreclosure Review. Additional information is provided in Note 43. A fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately US$3,327m) was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2012. These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2013 and authorised for issue. 46 Non-statutory accounts The information set out in these accounts does not constitute the company’s statutory accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 or 2011. Those accounts have been reported on by the company’s auditors: their reports were unqualified and did not contain a statement under section 498 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006. The accounts for 2011 have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies and those for 2012 will be delivered in due course. 515 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Page Fourth interim dividend for 2012 516 Interim dividends for 2013 516 Shareholder profile 517 2012 Annual General Meeting 517 Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 518 Shareholder enquiries and communications 518 Stock symbols 519 Investor relations 519 Where more information about HSBC is available 520 Simplified structure chart 521 Taxation of shares and dividends 522 Information about the enforceability of judgements made in the US 524a Page Exchange controls and other limitations affecting equity security holders 524a Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings 524a American Depositary Shares 524a Nature of trading market 524b Memorandum and Articles of Association 524c History and development of HSBC 524d Differences in HSBC Holdings/New York Stock Exchange corporate governance practices 524e Glossary of accounting terms and US equivalents 528 Abbreviations 529 Glossary and Index 532 Fourth interim dividend for 2012 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share. Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 3 April 2013. The timetable for the dividend is: Announcement 4 March 2013 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 20 March 2013 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 20 March 2013 Record date in Hong Kong 21 March 2013 Record date in London, New York, Paris and Bermuda1 22 March 2013 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and/or Annual Review 2012, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend documentation 3 April 2013 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends 25 April 2013 Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 29 April 2013 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST 8 May 2013 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date. Interim dividends for 2013 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares. Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend. It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2013 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share. The proposed timetables for the dividends in respect of 2013 are: Interim dividends for 2013 First Second Third Fourth Announcement 7 May 2013 5 August 2013 7 October 2013 24 February 2014 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 22 May 2013 21 August 2013 23 October 2013 12 March 2014 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 22 May 2013 21 August 2013 23 October 2013 12 March 2014 Record date in Hong Kong 23 May 2013 22 August 2013 24 October 2013 13 March 2014 Record date in London, New York, Paris and Bermuda1 24 May 2013 23 August 2013 25 October 2013 14 March 2014 Payment date 11 July 2013 9 October 2013 11 December 2013 30 April 2014 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch Register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on these dates. Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Board’s determination that a scrip 516 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend. Shareholder profile At 31 December 2012 the share register recorded the following details: Ordinary shares held Number of shareholders Total shares held 1-100 35,872 1,075,355 101-400 30,307 7,425,370 401-500 7,833 3,538,962 501-1,000 31,490 23,056,605 1,001-5,000 72,523 170,851,837 5,001-10,000 18,840 133,212,606 10,001-20,000 10,978 153,114,553 20,001-50,000 6,673 204,789,957 50,001-200,000 3,271 301,012,906 200,001-500,000 721 223,700,082 500,001 and above 1,050 17,254,230,431 Total 219,558 18,476,008,664 2012 Annual General Meeting All Directors listed on pages 302 to 307 attended the 2012 Annual General Meeting with the exception of G Morgan who was unable to attend and R Fassbind and J Comey who were appointed Directors on 1 January 2013 and 4 March 2013, respectively. G Morgan ceased to be a Director from the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting. All resolutions considered at the 2012 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 25 May 2012 at The Barbican Centre, London EC2 were passed on a poll as follows: Total votes Resolution For1 Against Vote withheld2 1 To receive the Report and Accounts for 2011 8,674,241,734 135,201,316 7,347,647 2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2011 7,603,837,582 863,308,512 342,947,482 3 To elect or re-elect the following as Directors: (a) S A Catz 8,804,928,221 9,610,127 5,875,570 (b) L M L Cha 8,648,658,349 47,870,917 123,714,457 (c) M K T Cheung 8,802,099,054 12,615,523 5,630,308 (d) J D Coombe 8,628,180,910 186,062,475 5,852,946 (e) J Faber 8,796,984,821 17,580,853 5,861,373 (f) R A Fairhead 8,743,788,851 118,900,468 5,802,585 (g) D J Flint 8,619,018,008 168,004,948 33,368,432 (h) A A Flockhart 8,774,240,102 40,569,601 5,687,412 (i) S T Gulliver 8,775,424,304 39,522,674 5,558,005 (j) J W J Hughes-Hallett 8,771,227,801 43,514,682 5,732,794 (k) W S H Laidlaw 8,749,103,878 65,588,171 5,762,796 (l) J P Lipsky 8,804,822,657 9,552,202 5,949,328 (m) J R Lomax 8,694,903,617 21,801,654 103,551,962 (n) I J Mackay 8,780,813,350 33,915,545 5,752,704 (o) N R N Murthy 8,799,839,273 14,888,406 5,752,109 (p) Sir Simon Robertson 8,637,007,606 48,054,956 123,743,083 (q) J L Thornton 8,248,542,395 336,922,956 233,310,057 4 To reappoint the Auditor at remuneration to be determined by the Group Audit Committee 8,658,879,219 145,175,480 16,773,808 5 To authorise the Directors to allot shares 8,598,678,631 214,223,057 6,232,394 6 To disapply pre-emption rights (Special Resolution) 8,613,126,301 195,480,323 12,092,143 7 To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares 8,775,533,630 39,890,867 5,250,428 8 To authorise the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative 8,805,094,483 5,763,369 9,412,655 9 To approve general meetings (other than annual general meetings) being called on 14 clear days’ notice(Special Resolution) 7,876,386,438 937,298,004 6,966,206 1 Includes discretionary votes. 2 A ‘Vote Withheld’ is not a ‘vote’ in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ the resolution. 517 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Interim Management Statements and Interim Results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 7 May 2013 and 4 November 2013. The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2013 are expected to be issued on 5 August 2013. Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically. Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 Email via website: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre 183 Queen’s Road East Hong Kong Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk Investors Relations Team HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 6 Front Street Hamilton HM 11 Bermuda Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.co.uk Investor Centre: www.computershare.com/hk/investors Investor Centre: www.computershare.com/investor/bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts PO Box 43006 Providence, RI 02940-3006 USA Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elysées 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-do@hsbc.fr Website: www.hsbc.fr If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding (including any administration thereof) must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error. 518 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: Global Communications HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Communications (Asia) The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 1 Queen’s Road Central Hong Kong Global Publishing Services HSBC – North America 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Mettawa, Illinois 60045 USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification of their availability on HSBC’s website. To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.hsbc.com/ecomms. If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email. If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy of it, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge. Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is available upon request after 3 April 2013 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre 183 Queen’s Road East Hong Kong Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future. Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to: Manager Investor Relations HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom SVP Investor Relations HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Mettawa, Illinois 60045 USA Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 1 Queen’s Road Central Hong Kong Telephone: 44 020 7991 8041 1 224 880 8008 852 2822 4908 Facsimile: 44 0845 587 0225 1 847 383 3331 852 3418 4469 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com investor.relations.usa@us.hsbc.com investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk 519 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2012, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com. Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov. Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the Commission at (202) 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000). 520 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) 521 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Taxation of shares and dividends Taxation – UK residents The following is a summary, under current law, of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares. The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, the summary deals principally with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities. Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws. Taxation of dividends Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. However, dividends are paid with an associated tax credit which is available for set-off by certain shareholders against any liability they may have to UK income tax. Currently, the associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i.e. one-ninth of the cash dividend. For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings. Individual shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper rate (currently 32.5%) and the dividend additional rate (currently 42.5%), respectively. The UK Government has announced that the dividend additional rate will be reduced from 42.5% to 37.5%, with effect on and after 6 April 2013. The tax credit is available for set-off against the dividend upper rate and the dividend additional rate liability. Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit repayment. Although non-UK resident shareholders are generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some such shareholders may be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation agreement between their country of residence and the UK. However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, repayable. Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2011 fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2012 was set out in the Secretary’s letters to shareholders of 27 March, 29 May, 29 August and 7 November 2012. In no case, was the difference between the cash dividend foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value. Accordingly, the amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings US$0.50 ordinary shares (the ‘shares’) for UK capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend foregone. Taxation of capital gains The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other companies. For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues. Any capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowance. If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers. Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee. An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee. 522 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax is calculated and payment made automatically. Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration. Following the case HSBC pursued before the European Court of Justice (Case C-569/07 HSBC Holdings plc and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM Revenue & Customs) and a subsequent case in relation to depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is prohibited. Taxation – US residents The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) by a holder that is a resident of the US for US federal income tax purposes (a ‘US holder’) and who is not resident (while it remains relevant to the charge to UK capital gains tax) ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes. Holders and prospective purchasers should note that the UK Government has announced that ordinary residence will cease to be relevant to the charge to UK capital gains tax for the tax year 2013-14 and subsequent tax years. The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change. Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws. Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and Accounts is for informational purposes only; it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties. Taxation of dividends Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. A US holder must include cash dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such fair market value. Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a ‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not being classified for US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment company), certain dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at maximum rates. Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign investment company. Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified dividends. Taxation of capital gains Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder generally will be subject to US tax at preferential rates. 523 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Inheritance tax Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes of the United States-United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax. Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary) under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable. The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%. The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer. No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. US backup withholding tax and information reporting Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding. Holders that are not US persons generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US persons in order to avoid the application of such information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries. 524 Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Information about the enforceability of judgements made in the US HSBC Holdings is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales. Most of the Directors and executive officers live outside the US. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or HSBC Holdings in the US or to enforce judgements obtained in US courts against them or HSBC Holdings based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the US. There is doubt as to whether English courts would enforce: • civil liabilities under US securities laws in original actions; or • judgements of US courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the US or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the UK. The enforceability of any judgement in the UK will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time. Exchange controls and other limitations affecting equity security holders Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of capital or remittance of distributable profits by way of dividends and other payments to holders of HSBC Holdings’ equity securities who are not residents of the UK. There are also no restrictions under the laws of the UK or the terms of the Memorandum and Articles of Association concerning the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold HSBC Holdings’ equity securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so. Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since it became the HSBC Group holding company by a scheme of arrangement in 1991. The dividends declared, per ordinary share, in respect of each of the last five years were: First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim1 Total2 2012 US$ 0.090 0.090 0.090 0.180 0.450 £ 0.058 0.056 0.056 0.111 0.281 HK$ 0.698 0.698 0.698 1.395 3.489 2011 US$ 0.090 0.090 0.090 0.140 0.410 £ 0.056 0.058 0.058 0.090 0.262 HK$ 0.701 0.702 0.699 1.088 3.190 2010 US$ 0.080 0.080 0.080 0.120 0.360 £ 0.053 0.051 0.051 0.077 0.232 HK$ 0.622 0.621 0.622 0.933 2.798 2009 US$ 0.080 0.080 0.080 0.100 0.340 £ 0.048 0.050 0.048 0.062 0.208 HK$ 0.620 0.620 0.620 0.775 2.635 2008 US$ 0.180 0.180 0.180 0.100 0.640 £ 0.090 0.100 0.124 0.069 0.383 HK$ 1.403 1.398 1.395 0.775 4.971 1 The fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per share has been translated into pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars at the closing rate on 31 December 2012. The dividend will be paid on 8 May 2013. 2 The above dividends declared are accounted for as disclosed in Note 10 on the Financial Statements. American Depositary Shares A holder of HSBC Holdings’ American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) may have to pay, either directly or indirectly (via the intermediary through whom their ADSs are held) fees to the Bank of New York Mellon as depositary. Fees may be paid or recovered in several ways: by deduction from amounts distributed; by selling a portion of distributable property; by deduction from dividend distributions, by directly invoicing the holder, or by charging the intermediaries who act for them. The fees for which the holders of the HSBC ADSs will be responsible include: 524a Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) For: HSBC ADS holders must pay: Each issuance of HSBC ADSs, including as a result of a distribution of shares (including through a stock dividend, stock split or distribution of rights or other property) US$5.00 (or less) per 100 HSBC ADSs or portion thereof Each cancellation of HSBC ADSs, including if the deposit agreement terminates US$5.00 (or less) per 100 HSBC ADSs or portion thereof Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to/from the holder’s name to/from the name of The Bank of New York Mellon or its agent when the holder deposits or withdraws shares Registration or transfer fees (of which there currently are none) Conversion of non-US currency to US dollars Charges and expenses incurred by The Bank of New York Mellon with respect to the conversion Each cash distribution to HSBC ADS holders US$0.02 or less per ADS Transfers of HSBC ordinary shares to the depositary in exchange for HSBC ADSs Any applicable taxes and/or other governmental charges Each issuance of HSBC ADSs, including as a result of a distribution of shares (including through a stock dividend, stock split or distribution of rights or other property) US$5.00 (or less) per 100 HSBC ADSs or portion thereof Distribution of securities by the Depository to HSBC ADS holders A fee equivalent to the fee that would be payable if securities distributed to you had been shares and those shares had been deposited for issuance of ADSs Any other charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing shares or other securities deposited As applicable The depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services are paid. The depositary has agreed to reimburse us for expenses we incur, and to pay certain out-of-pocket expenses and waive certain fees, in connection with the administration, servicing and maintenance of our ADS programme. There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the depositary will reimburse us. The amount of reimbursement available is not tied to the amount of fees the depositary collects from holders of ADSs. During the year ended 31 December 2012, the depositary reimbursed, paid and/or waived fees and expenses totalling US$679,802 in connection with the administration, servicing and maintenance of the programme, as detailed below: Category of expense/fees 2012 US$ Stock exchange listing fees 207,633 Fulfilment costs 219,446 – shareholder meeting costs (printing and distribution of materials and vote tabulation) 31,598 – beneficial holder searches 187,848 Fees and expenses paid and/or waived including: account servicing fees, postage and envelopes for mailing annual and interim financial reports, dividend warrants, electronic filing of US Federal tax information, mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and telephone calls 252,723 Total 679,802 Nature of trading market HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are listed or admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (‘HKSE’), Euronext Paris, the Bermuda Stock Exchange, and the New York Stock Exchange (‘NYSE’) in the form of ADSs. HSBC Holdings maintains its principal share register in England and overseas branch share registers in Hong Kong and Bermuda (collectively, the ‘share register’). As at 31 December 2012, there were a total of 219,558 holders of record of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the share register. As at 31 December 2012, a total of 20,499,189 of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were registered in the HSBC Holdings’ share register in the name of 14,326 holders of record with addresses in the US. These shares represented 0.11% of the total HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue. As at 31 December 2012, there were 8,601 holders of record of ADSs holding approximately 524b Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) 147.7m ADSs, representing approximately 738.5m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 7,890 of these holders had addresses in the US, holding approximately 147.6m ADSs, representing 738m HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. As at 31 December 2012, approximately 4% of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were represented by ADSs held by holders of record with addresses in the US. The following table shows, for the years, calendar quarters and months indicated, the highest and lowest prices for the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and ADSs. These are based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange, HKSE, Euronext Paris, NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange, as adjusted for the 5-for-12 rights issue completed in April 2009. Past share price performance should not be regarded as a guide to future performance. High and low mid-market closing prices London Hong Kong New York Paris Bermuda US$0.50 shares US$0.50 shares ADSs1 US$0.50 shares US$0.50 shares High Low High Low High Low High Low High Low pence pence HK$ HK$ US$ US$ euro euro US$ US$ 2012 655 491 82.0 59.5 53.1 38.3 8.0 5.8 10.5 7.6 2011 731 464 91.8 56.1 59.0 35.8 8.7 5.4 11.8 7.0 2010 740 596 92.4 69.6 59.3 44.4 8.3 7.2 11.6 8.8 2009 761 304 98.0 30.6 64.0 22.0 8.6 3.3 12.5 4.7 2008 809 534 125.4 67.4 79.5 41.3 10.3 5.5 15.9 8.0 2012 4th Quarter 655 581 82.0 72.6 53.1 47.0 8.0 7.3 10.5 9.4 3rd Quarter 588 511 74.1 62.1 47.7 39.7 7.4 6.5 9.4 8.3 2nd Quarter 573 503 71.6 60.2 46.0 38.7 7.1 6.2 9.2 8.1 1st Quarter 582 491 71.7 59.5 45.9 38.3 7.0 5.8 9.3 7.6 2011 4th Quarter 565 464 70.1 56.1 45.4 35.8 6.4 5.4 8.6 7.0 3rd Quarter 629 486 78.3 59.5 50.5 37.6 7.0 5.6 10.0 7.9 2nd Quarter 667 601 85.2 75.2 54.7 48.2 7.6 6.8 11.0 9.6 1st Quarter 731 623 91.8 79.0 59.0 50.0 8.7 7.2 11.8 9.7 2013 January 724 647 88.3 81.3 57.1 53.1 8.5 7.9 11.4 10.5 2012 December 655 636 82.0 78.3 53.1 51.0 8.0 7.7 10.5 10.1 November 638 596 78.8 73.7 51.1 47.5 7.9 7.4 10.1 9.7 October 618 581 76.6 72.6 49.8 47.0 7.7 7.3 9.8 9.4 September 588 541 74.1 66.2 47.7 43.1 7.4 6.8 9.4 8.5 August 570 539 69.5 65.6 44.8 41.9 7.3 6.8 8.9 8.3 July 570 511 69.5 62.1 44.9 39.7 7.2 6.5 8.9 8.5 1 In New York each ADS represents five underlying ordinary shares. Memorandum and Articles of Association The disclosure under the caption ‘Memorandum and Articles of Association’ contained on Form 20-F for the years ended 31 December 2000 and 2001 is incorporated by reference herein, together with the disclosure below. Directors’ interests Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and provided that the Articles are complied with, a Director, notwithstanding his office: • may enter into or otherwise be interested in any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal with HSBC Holdings or in which HSBC Holdings is otherwise interested; • may hold any other office or place of profit under HSBC Holdings (except that of auditor or auditor of a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings) in conjunction with the office of Director and may act by himself or through his firm in a professional capacity for HSBC Holdings, and in any such case on such terms as to remuneration and otherwise as the Board may arrange; • may be a director or other officer, or employed by, or a party to any transaction or arrangement with or otherwise interested in, any company promoted by HSBC Holdings or in which HSBC Holdings is otherwise interested or as regards which HSBC Holdings has any powers of appointment; and 524c Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) • shall not be liable to account to HSBC Holdings for any profit, remuneration or other benefit realised by any such office, employment, contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal or from any interest in any body corporate and no such contract, arrangement, transaction, proposal or interest shall be avoided on the grounds of any such interest or benefit nor shall the receipt of any such profit, remuneration or any other benefit constitute a breach of his or her duty under the Companies Act 2006 not to accept benefits from third parties. Since 1 October 2008, the Board may authorise any matter proposed to it which would, if not so authorised, involve a breach by a Director of his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest under the Companies Act 2006, including, without limitation, any matter which relates to a situation in which a Director has, or can have, an interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interest of HSBC Holdings (including the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether or not HSBC Holdings could take advantage of it, but excluding any situation which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest). Any such authorisation will be effective only if: • any requirement as to quorum at the meeting at which the matter is considered is met without counting the Director in question or any other interested Director; and • the matter was agreed to without their voting or would have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted. The Board may (whether at the time of the giving of the authorisation or subsequently) make any such authorisation subject to any limits or conditions it expressly imposes but such authorisation is otherwise given to the fullest extent permitted. The Board may vary or terminate any such authorisation at any time. A Director shall be under no duty to HSBC Holdings with respect to any information which he obtains or has obtained otherwise than as a Director of HSBC Holdings and in respect of which he has a duty of confidentiality to another person. Retirement There is no mandatory retirement age for Directors of HSBC Holdings. History and development of HSBC 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, is established in both Hong Kong and Shanghai. 1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East, now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are purchased. 1965 We acquire a 51% interest (subsequently increased to 62.14%) in Hang Seng Bank Limited. Hang Seng Bank is the fourth-largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market capitalisation. 1980 We acquire a 51% interest in Marine Midland Banks, Inc., now HSBC USA, Inc, (with the remaining interest acquired in 1987). 1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporates its then existing Canadian operations. HSBC Bank Canada subsequently makes numerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada. 1987 We purchase a 14.9% interest in Midland Bank plc, now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UK’s principal clearing banks. 1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the parent company of the HSBC Group. 1992 We purchase the remaining interest in Midland Bank plc. 1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, our Head Office is transferred from Hong Kong to London in January. 1997 We assume selected assets, liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil S.A., now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, and in Argentina completes the acquisition of Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. 1999 We acquire Republic New York Corporation, subsequently merged with HSBC USA, Inc., and Safra Republic Holdings S.A. 2000 We complete our acquisition of 99.99% of the issued share capital of Crédit Commercial de France S.A., now HSBC France. 2002 We acquire 99.59% of Grupo Financiero Bital, S.A. de C.V., the holding company of what is now HSBC Mexico. 2003 We acquire Household International, Inc., now HSBC Finance Corporation. 2003 We acquire Banco Lloyds TSB S.A.–Banco Múltiplo in Brazil and the country’s leading consumer finance company, Losango Promotora de Vendas Limitada. 2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC Bank & Trust (Delaware) N.A. to form HSBC Bank USA, N.A. 2004 We complete the acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda Limited. 2004 We acquire Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited, which trades as Marks and Spencer Money (‘M&S Money’) in the UK. 2004 We acquire 19.9% of Bank of Communications, and Hang Seng Bank acquires 15.98% of Industrial Bank. 524d Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) 2005 We increase our holding in Ping An to 19.9%, having made our initial investment in 2002. Ping An is the second-largest life insurer and the third-largest property and casualty insurer in mainland China. 2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of Metris Companies Inc., making HSBC the fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the USA. 2006 We acquire Grupo Banistmo S.A. (‘Banistmo’), the leading banking group in Central America, through a tender offer to acquire 99.98% of the outstanding shares of Banistmo. 2007 Our three associates in mainland China, Industrial Bank, Ping An and Bank of Communications, issue new shares. We do not subscribe and, as a result, our interests in the associates’ equity decrease. 2008 We acquire the assets, liabilities and operations of The Chinese Bank in Taiwan. 2008 We complete the sale of our seven French regional banks. 2009 We complete the acquisition of 88.89% of PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja Tbk in Indonesia. 2012 In May, we complete the sale of our US Card and Retail Services business, together with certain real estate and other assets and liabilities. 2012 In May, we complete the sale of 138 retail branches in upstate New York. The disposal of a further 57 branches is completed in August. 2012 In December, we complete the sale we announced in January of our businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras to the Columbian banking group, Banco Davivienda, for US$801m. 2012 In December, we announce the disposal of our shares in Ping An to Charoen Pokphand Group Company for approximately US$9,385m in cash. 2012 In December, we announce an agreement to sell our 18% shareholding in Bao Viet Holdings to Sumitomo Life Insurance Company for US$340m in cash. 2013 In February, we announce an agreement to sell HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. to Bancolombia S.A. for US$2.1bn in cash. Differences in HSBC Holdings/New York Stock Exchange corporate governance practices Under the NYSE’s corporate governance rules for listed companies and the applicable rules of the SEC, as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, HSBC Holdings must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies subject to NYSE listing standards. HSBC Holdings believes the following to be the significant differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies. US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines. The Listing Rules of the FSA require each listed company incorporated in the UK to include in its Annual Report and Accounts a statement of how it has applied the principles of The UK Corporate Governance Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the code provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the accounting period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts. A company that has not complied with the Code provisions, or complied with only some of the Code provisions or (in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature) complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must specify the Code provisions with which it has not complied, and (where relevant) for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance. As stated above, HSBC Holdings complied throughout 2012 with the applicable code provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code. The UK Corporate Governance Code does not require HSBC Holdings to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which it complies. Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating/corporate governance committee composed entirely of directors determined to be independent in accordance with the NYSE’s corporate governance rules. All of the members of the Nomination Committee during 2012 were independent non-executive Directors, as determined in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference of our Nomination Committee, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, require a majority of members to be independent. In addition to identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, a nominating/ corporate governance committee must develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles. The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference do not require it to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for HSBC Holdings. As stated above, HSBC Holdings is subject to the corporate governance principles of The UK Corporate Governance Code. The Board of Directors is responsible under its terms of reference for the development and review of Group policies and practices on corporate governance. Under the NYSE standards, companies are required to have a compensation committee composed entirely of directors determined to be independent in accordance with the NYSE’s corporate governance rules. All of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee during 2012 were independent non-executive Directors, as determined in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The terms of reference of our 524e Table of Contents HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information (continued) Group Remuneration Committee, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, require at least three members to be independent. A compensation committee must review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to chief executive officer compensation and evaluate a chief executive officer’s performance in light of these goals and objectives. The Group Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference require it to review and approve performance-based remuneration of the Directors by reference to corporate goals and objectives which are set by the Board of Directors. Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year. During 2012, the non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman met twice without the other executive Directors. The non-executive Directors also met twice without the Group Chairman, including to appraise the Group Chairman’s performance. HSBC Holdings’ practice, in this regard, complies with The UK Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its annual report how the Board, its committees and the Directors are evaluated (on page 355) and provides extensive information regarding Directors’ compensation in the Directors’ Remuneration Report (on pages 347 to 367). The terms of reference of HSBC Holdings’ Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees are available at www.hsbc.com/boardcommittees. NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers. In 2009, the Board endorsed three HSBC Values statements underpinned by the continued use of our Business Principles, in replacement of the Group Business Principles and Values. In addition to the HSBC Values statements and Business Principles (and previously the Group Business Principles and Values), which apply to the employees of all our companies, pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, and to the Group Finance Director and Group Chief Accounting Officer. HSBC Holdings’ Code of Ethics is available on www.hsbc.com/codeofethics or from the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. If the Board amends or waives the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the amendment or waiver will appear at the same website address. During 2012, HSBC Holdings made no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no waivers from its provisions. The references to the standards to be followed by all employees reflect the Board’s endorsement of HSBC Values statements underpinned by the continued use of our Business Principles. The HSBC Values statements and Business Principles are available on www.hsbc.com/groupvalues. Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors. Currently, more than three-quarters of HSBC Holdings’ Directors are independent. Under The UK Corporate Governance Code the HSBC Holdings Board determines whether a Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement. Under the NYSE rules a director cannot qualify as independent unless the board affirmatively determines that the director has no material relationship with the listed company; in addition the NYSE rules prescribe a list of circumstances in which a director cannot be independent. The UK Corporate Governance Code requires a company’s board to assess director independence by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US company listed on the NYSE must annually certify that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance standards. In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings’ Group Chief Executive is not required to provide the NYSE with this annual compliance certification. However, in accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, the Group Chief Executive is required promptly to notify the NYSE in writing after any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to HSBC Holdings. HSBC Holdings is required to submit annual and interim written affirmations of compliance with applicable NYSE corporate governance standards, similar to the affirmations required of NYSE-listed US companies. 524f Table of Contents 2012 HSBC 20-F Reconciliation Table Form 20-F Item Number and Caption Location Page PART I 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not required for Annual Report — 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not required for Annual Report — 3. Key Information A. Selected Financial Data Consolidated income statement, Consolidated balance sheet, Shareholder information 29, 45, 516 B. Capitalisation and Indebtedness Not required for Annual Report — C. Reasons for the Offer and use of Proceeds Not required for Annual Report — D. Risk Factors Overview 20-21l 