ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risk Factors Stockholders and prospective purchasers of our common stock should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to buy our common stock, stockholders and prospective purchasers should also refer to the other information in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. -6- Risks Related to Our Business An increase in interest rates could result in a reduction in our loan brokerage volumes, an increase in first payment defaults on loans we brokered, and a reduction in the revenue per loan brokered. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan would be less attractive and qualifying for a purchase loan may be more difficult; and If prevailing interest rates increase after we receive a commitment to fund a loan, the value that we receive upon brokering of the loan decreases. Our business may be significantly harmed by a slowdown in the economy of Florida, where we conduct a significant amount of business. Historically, all of the mortgage loans we have brokered have been secured by property in the state of Florida. A decline in the economy or the residential real estate market in Florida could restrict our ability to broker loans, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As we integrate our recent acquisitions of SHL and EHC, we might face the same risk in geographic locations where SHL or EHC have concentrations of mortgage originations. Our business may be significantly harmed by the weather in markets where we conduct a significant amount of business. In 2004, our PHF subsidiary saw a significant reduction in mortgage loans due to the hurricanes that affected the state of Florida. Hurricanes and other natural phenomena could hurt the real estate markets in which we operate and restrict our ability to originate loans. For example, insurers of residential real estate will not write hazard and flood insurance policies in advance of approaching tropical storms or hurricanes. This would significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We face intense competition that could adversely impact our market share and our revenue. We face intense competition from other financial and mortgage companies, internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low, and from traditional bank and thrift lenders to the mortgage industry. As we seek to expand our business further, we will face a significant number of additional competitors, many of whom will be well-established in the markets we seek to penetrate. Some of our competitors are much larger, have better name recognition, and have far greater financial and other resources than us. The government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also expanding their participation in the mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities -7- have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are willing to offer. While the government-sponsored entities presently do not have the legal authority to originate mortgage loans, they do have the authority to buy loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, such experience could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the mortgage industry. The intense competition in the mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail operations and information systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, less stringent underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition in the mortgage industry. Price competition could cause us to lower the interest rates that we offer borrowers, which could lower the value of our loans. If our competitors adopt less stringent underwriting standards we will be pressured to do so as well, which would result in greater loan risk without compensating pricing. If we do not relax underwriting standards in response to our competitors, we may lose market share. Any increase in these pricing and underwriting pressures could reduce the volume of our loan originations and sales and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Defective loans may harm our business. In connection with the origination of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding the loans we originate, primarily related to fraud on the application and first payment defaults. These representations and warranties relate to, among other things, compliance with laws; regulations and underwriting standards; the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties including the information contained in the loan application regarding employment and income history, property appraisal and title information. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our own employees, we often bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation, such persons and entities are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered from them. -8- Although we have controls and processes in place that are designed to identify misrepresented information in our loan origination operations, we cannot assure you that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations. If we experience a significant number of such fraudulent or negligent acts, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We depend upon our loan officers to attract borrowers, by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies, real estate agents, borrowers and others. We believe that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled executive officers and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves our company there is a likelihood that other members of his or her team will follow. Competition for qualified loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. Our inability to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled loan officers and other key employees at manageable costs could harm our business. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. We have experienced substantial changes and rapid growth that place certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We expect to continue to experience this rapid growth both organically and through acquisitions. The increase in the size of our operations may make it more difficult for us to ensure that we originate quality loans. We will need to attract and hire additional sales and management personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to preserve and increase our market share. We will also need to effectively integrate our acquisitions. At the same time, we will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls, which c ould require capital and human resources beyond what we currently have. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs; expand our systems effectively; allocate our human resources optimally; identify and hire qualified employees; or effectively integrate acquired businesses to achieve growth. The failure to manage growth or integrate acquisitions effectively would significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. As we implement our growth strategy and increase the volume of loan production, that reliance will increase. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. -9- The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is currently dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan applications and closings. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our process. Implementing this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. As these requirements increase in the future, we will have to fully develop these technological capabilities to remain competitive or our business will be significantly harmed. Our financial results fluctuate as a result of seasonality and other timing factors, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our business is generally subject to seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general pattern of housing sales, which typically peak during the spring and summer seasons. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future, reflecting the seasonality of the industry. In the future, our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. Although we do not currently use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, we may elect to do so in the future. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. We have incurred losses since inception. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1, we have incurred cumulative losses of $8,725 since inception. At December 31, 2005, we had negative working capital of $1,550, negative tangible net worth of $1,253 and our stockholders' deficit totaled $431. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our continued existence depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to, our ability to originate loans, to secure adequate sources of capital and to locate and fund acquisitions of suitable companies. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Risks Associated with Our Acquisition Strategy There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy. We intend to continue to grow through acquisitions of financial services companies and small- to medium-sized mortgage brokers. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in pursuing these acquisitions or whether these acquisitions will provide us with positive operating results. -10- Consummation of each acquisition is subject to various representations, warranties, and conditions, such as securing the approval of state licensing bodies or the release of liens and other claims by creditors of the companies we acquire. Acquisitions may involve a number of specific risks including adverse short-term effects on our results of operations, dilution from issuances of our common stock and strain on our financial and administrative infrastructure. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous other risks, including risks associated with: Identifying acquisition candidates and negotiating definitive purchase agreements on satisfactory terms; Our financial position makes us less attractive to strong acquisition candidates; Conducting adequate due diligence with our limited resources; Integrating operations, personnel and management information systems; Managing a growing and geographically diverse group of employees; Diverting management's attention from other business concerns; and Competition for attractive acquisition candidates from other acquirers. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions or manage the resulting business effectively, or that any acquisition will achieve the benefits that we anticipate. In addition, we are not certain that we will be able to acquire companies at attractive valuations, and, therefore, not highly dilutive to our existing shareholders. Depending upon the nature, size and timing of potential future acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional financing in order to consummate additional acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our existing or future financing agreements will permit the necessary additional financing or that additional financing will be available to us or, if available, that financing would be on terms acceptable to management. There are risks associated with our plan to use our common stock as acquisition consideration. We expect to finance future acquisitions primarily through issuing shares of our common stock for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid. In the event that our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, our ability to issue common stock as acquisition consideration may be limited. In addition, currently our stock is thinly traded on the NASDAQ OTC Bulletin Board. This lack of liquidity may discourage some acquisition candidates from accepting our common stock as acquisition consideration. Statutory and Regulatory Risks The multi-state scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. We are currently licensed, or exempt from licensing, in one state and must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions -11- are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow to include other states, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, to accurately interpret and to properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Increased regulation would result in increased compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of our licenses and right to do business in the various states; class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Several federal, state and local laws and regulations have been adopted or are under consideration intended to eliminate so-called "predatory" lending practices. Many of these laws and regulations impose broad restrictions on certain commonly accepted lending practices, including some of our practices. There can be no assurance that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or other similar laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future. Adoption of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business by substantially increasing the costs of compliance with a variety of inconsistent federal, state and local rules, or by restricting our ability to charge rates and fees adequate to compensate us for the risk associated with certain loans. The increased governmental scrutiny of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may also result in regulatory changes and oversight which may have an adverse impact on the industry generally, and in turn have a negative effect on our business. Stockholder refusal to comply with regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do business in certain states. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements on our officers and directors and persons holding certain amounts of our common stock, usually 10% or more holders. If any of these persons fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state's applicable regulatory requirements for licensing, we could lose our authority to conduct business in that state. We may be unable to compete effectively with financial institutions that are exempt from certain state restrictions. Certain federally chartered financial institutions are exempt from the state laws to which we are subject and may operate more effectively under the federal laws that govern their operations. The increasing number of federal, state and local "anti-predatory lending" laws may restrict our ability to originate or increase our risk of liability with respect to certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. The continued enactment of these laws, rules and regulations may prevent us from making certain loans and may cause us to reduce the APR or the points and fees on loans that we do make. If nothing else, the growing number of these laws, rules and regulations will increase our cost of doing business as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. Any of the foregoing could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. -12- The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock is expected to be highly volatile, both because of actual and perceived changes in our financial results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other factors discussed in this section, the following: actual or anticipated variations in the number of housing starts or sales of existing homes; changes in financial estimates by research analysts; actual or anticipated changes in the United States economy or the real estate or homebuilding environment; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures, financing transactions, securities offerings or other strategic initiatives. We have an open comment letter from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We currently have an open comment letter with the Securities and Exchange Commission (see Item 1B below). There is no guarantee that we will not have to restate our previously issued financial statements as a result of a review of the issues presented in the comment letter. Should we have to restate our previously issued financial statements, the value of our common stock could be severely affected. We are controlled by a small group of shareholders whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Affiliates of Consumer Direct of America, Inc. and our current management are among our largest shareholders. Accordingly, they will continue to have significant influence in determining the outcome of all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of other shareholders, and their concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. As long as these people are among our principal shareholders, they will have the power to significantly influence the election of our entire Board of Directors. The public sale of our common stock by selling shareholders could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of market sales by our shareholders, including under our two resale registration statements, or the perception that these sales will occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. -13- There is relatively limited trading in our common stock. The trading volume of our common stock is relatively limited, which we expect to continue. Therefore, our stock may be subject to higher volatility or illiquidity than would exist if our shares were traded more actively. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We currently have an open comment letter in which the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has inquired about certain matters related to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A summary of each matter under inquiry, as well as our position on the matter, is presented below. The methods or assumptions used in performing our impairment analysis of PHF's goodwill. We test for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset in question may not be recoverable including, but not limited to, a deterioration of profits for a business segment that has long-lived assets, and when other changes occur that might impair recovery of long-lived assets. In our annual impairment review, we assume that the reporting unit with goodwill will be held for ten years and sold at the end of the ten year period. We start with the expected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") for the current year. We apply expected probabilities to the EBITDA, utilize one year variances of plus and minus 10% and a range of expected growth rates to arrive at the EBITDA for each year owned. We also assume a terminal value based upon a multiple of EBITDA in the last year. This multiple is lower than we currently expect to pay for a company of similar size. Next, we discount the annual and terminal values to the present using an assumed risk free interest rate to arrive at the fair value of the reporting unit with goodwill. Finally, we compare this fair value to the net carrying value of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we proceed to a second step in the goodwill impairment test to mea sure the amount of impairment loss. Our presentation of cash flows from discontinued operations as a separate line item in our statement of cash flows. Previously, we, like many registrants, had presented the net cash flows from discontinued operations as a single separate line in our consolidated statements of cash flows. In accordance with the December 2005 guidance provided by a member of the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have modified our previously reported consolidated statements of cash flows for our fiscal years 2004 and 2003 to separately disclose the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations. We have also, provided an explanation of this modification in the notes to our financial statements. Under this SEC guidance, this modification does not require disclosure as a correction of an error. The method used to value the stock issued in conjunction with our acquisition of PGNF was not in agreement with the guidance provided from EITF 99-12 or SFAS 141. In valuing the common stock we issued in our acquisition of PGNF, we used the closing price of our common stock on the day before ($0.13 per share), the day of ($0.12 per share), and the day after ($0.115 per share) the determination of the number of shares to exchange was made. The number of shares exchanged with PGNF was determined on October 14, 2002. Our merger with PGNF was subsequently announced on November 14, 2002 and our common stock closed at $0.45 per share that day. -14- In EITF 99-12, the Task Force reached a consensus that "the market price of the securities over a reasonable period of time before and after the terms of the acquisition are agreed to and announced." Task Force members stated that the reasonable period of time referred to is intended to be very short, such as a few days before and after the acquisition is agreed to and announced. In paragraph 22 of SFAS 141: Business Combinations ("SFAS 141"), the FASB stated that "the quoted market price of an equity security issued to effect a business combination generally should be used to estimate the fair value of an acquired entity after recognizing possible effects of price fluctuations, quantities traded, issue costs, and the like." Further, SFAS 141 states that the price should be "the market price for a reasonable period before and after the date that the terms of the acquisition are agreed to and announced shall be considered in determining the fair value of securities issued ." With the price of our common stock at $0.45 per share when the number of shares to be exchanged was known and announced, the resulting value would have far exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired, including goodwill. Therefore, we looked for alternative guidance within SFAS 141. Paragraph 23 of SFAS 141 states that if "the quoted market price is not the fair value of the equity securities, either preferred or common, the consideration received shall be estimated even though measuring directly the fair values of net assets received is difficult." Based upon this paragraph, we evaluated the net assets received, including goodwill, the quoted market price of our shares to be issued, and other third party bids made to PGNF to determine the amount to be recorded. The SEC staff questioned our support for, and disclosures of, the factors considered in our determination that a portion of the recorded deferred tax assets was expected to be realized and requested an explanation of the nature of the legal restructurings we plan to undertake to utilize PFC's net operating losses. Recognition of deferred tax assets is based on management's belief that it is more likely than not that the tax benefit associated with temporary differences and operating loss carryforwards will be utilized. A valuation allowance is recorded for those deferred income tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the realization will not occur. Through December 31, 2002, we were considered to be in the development stage. Due to the uncertainty of future taxable income during its development stage, no future tax benefits were recognized. With the acquisitions completed in 2003, we were no longer a development stage enterprise and deferred income tax assets and liabilities were recognized for the year ended December 31, 2003. While we continued to suffer losses on a consolidated basis in 2004 and 2005, our PHF subsidisary has remained profitable on a stand alone basis since we acquired it. Given PHF's profitability, in our opinion, we could undertake certain actions that would allow us to utilize the recognized deferred tax assets prior to their expiration. First, we would discontinue filing our periodic and other reports as required under the securities laws. These compliance costs, and the associated salaries of the people responsible for the preparation of these regulatory reports, represent the majority of the costs incurred in our corporate operation. Second, we would convert PHF from a Florida corporation to a Florida limited liability company. By doing so, PHF would no longer be taxed as a stand alone corporation but rather as a partnership with its income flowing into our tax return. PHF's income would exceed the costs we incur resulting in us having taxable income. Then, we would use the deferred tax assets recognized to offset the tax due on the return. Based upon PHF's historical profitability and what would be the substantially reduced corporate expenses, it is more likely than not that we would use the unreserved deferred tax assets prior to the expiration of the net operating losses under current law. 