Item 1A- Risk Factors and the following: • significant increases in competitive pressure in the banking and financial services industries; • changes in the interest rate environment which could reduce anticipated or actual margins; • changes in political conditions or the legislative or regulatory environment; • general economic conditions, either nationally or regionally and especially in our primary service area, becoming less favorable than expected resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality; • changes occurring in business conditions and inflation; • changes in technology; • changes in monetary and tax policies; • the level of allowance for loan loss; • the rate of delinquencies and amounts of charge-offs; • the rates of loan growth and the lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio; • adverse changes in asset quality and resulting credit risk-related losses and expenses; • loss of consumer confidence and economic disruptions resulting from terrorist activities; • changes in the securities markets; and • other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business General Greenville First Bancshares, Inc. (the "company") is a South Carolina corporation that owns all of the capital stock of Greenville First Bank, N.A. (the "bank") and all of the stock of Greenville First Statutory Trust I and II (collectively (the "Trusts")). The bank is a national bank organized under the laws of the United States located in Greenville County, South Carolina. The bank is primarily engaged in the business of accepting demand deposits and savings deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and providing commercial, consumer and mortgage loans to the general public. The bank owns all of the capital stock of JB Properties. This subsidiary is for the purpose of owning real estate acquired in loan foreclosures. The Trusts are special purpose subsidiaries organized for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On October 26, 1999, the company sold 1,100,000 shares of its common stock at $10 per share and on November 30, 1999 sold 50,000 additional shares for a total of 1,150,000 shares (1,897,493 after adjustment for our 3 for 2 stock split in 2003 and subsequent 10 percent stock dividend in 2006). The offering raised approximately $10.6 million, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. On June 26, 2003, the Trust offered and sold $6.0 million of floating rate securities. The company received the proceeds from the issuance of these securities and has reflected the obligation resulting from the receipt of the proceeds as junior subordinated debentures in the balance sheets. The company invested $186,000 in the Trust. 2 On November 17, 2003, shareholders of record as of November 3, 2003, received one additional share of stock for every two shares of stock owned prior to the 3 for 2 stock split. All fractional shares were paid in cash. On June 20, 2006, the company's Board of Directors approved a 10 percent stock dividend to the company's shareholders. The record date was July 24, 2006 and the distribution date was August 14, 2006. All fractional shares were paid in cash. Earnings per share and average shares outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the 3 for 2 stock split and the subsequent 10 percent stock dividend for all periods shown. On September 24, 2004, the company received $14.3 million from the sale of 800,000 shares of common stock at a price of $17.875 (880,000 shares at a price of $16.25 after adjustment for the 10 percent stock dividend in 2006). On October 15, 2004, the company's underwriter exercised its option to purchase an additional 120,000 shares at the same price (132,000 shares after adjustment for the 10 percent stock dividend in 2006). The total gross proceeds were approximately $16.4 million. The net proceeds to the company after offering costs and underwriter's discount were approximately $14.9 million On December 22, 2005, the Trust offered and sold $7.0 million of floating rate securities. The company received the proceeds from the issuance of these securities and has reflected the obligation resulting from the receipt of the proceeds as junior subordinated debentures in the company's balance sheets. The company invested $217,000 in the Trust. Non-GAAP Financial Information This report also contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). Management uses these non-GAAP measures to analyze the company's performance in comparison to prior years. The company incurred a one-time impairment charge of $1.5 million during 2005 which is discussed further in "Income Statement Review - Noninterest expenses." Management uses operating measures, which exclude the impairment charge, in the calculation of certain of the company's ratios to analyze on a consistent basis and over a longer period of time, the performance of which it considers to be its core banking operations. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP measures, and furthermore, the company's non-GAAP measures may not necessarily be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures of other companies. (See Item 6. Selected Financial Data.) Marketing Focus Greenville First Bank commenced operations in January 2000 and at that time was the first community bank organized in the city of Greenville, South Carolina in over 10 years. During the 1990s, several community banks operating in the Greenville market were acquired by larger regional financial institutions. We formed Greenville First to take advantage of market opportunities resulting from this continued consolidation of the financial services industry. Responding to this opportunity, we created a marketing plan focusing on the professional market in Greenville, including doctors, dentists, and small business owners. We serve this market with a client-focused structure called relationship teams, which provides each client with a specific banker contact and support team responsible for all of the client's banking needs. The purpose of this structure is to provide a consistent and superior level of professional service, and we believe it provides us with a distinct competitive advantage. We consider exceptional client service to be a critical part of our culture, which we refer to as "Client FIRST." We emphasize this Client FIRST culture in the training that we provide our employees, and we strive to reflect this Client FIRST culture in all aspects of our business. Location and Service Area Our primary market is Greenville County, South Carolina. Greenville County is located in the upstate region of South Carolina, approximately midway between Atlanta and Charlotte on the heavily traveled I-85 business corridor. It is South Carolina's most populous county with over 407,000 residents. Greenville is also one of the state's wealthiest counties, with average household income of $61,023 in 2004. In the past decade, Greenville County has attracted more than $6 billion in new business investments and 43,000 new jobs and is now considered the "economic engine of South Carolina." During the same period, Greenville County was rated first in the United States by Site Selection Magazine for both new and expanding international firms and, in 2002, was ranked fifth out of America's top 50 cities for European business expansion. Greenville was also recognized by Expansion Management Magazine in December 2000 for having the best worker training program in the United States. 3 Our primary service area consists of Greenville County, South Carolina. We draw a large percentage of our business from the central portion of Greenville County, within a ten mile radius of our main office. This principal service area is bounded by Rutherford Road to the north, Poinsett Highway to the west, Mauldin Road and Butler Road to the south, and Highway 14 and Batesville Road to the east. Included in this area is the highest per capita income tract in the county. We opened our first branch office, located on The Parkway near Thornblade Country Club in Greenville, on March 14, 2005 and our second branch office, located in the mature and historic Augusta Road area of Greenville, on November 4, 2005. We believe that the demographics and growth characteristics of these locations will provide us with significant opportunities to further develop existing client relationships and expand our client base. In January 2007, we opened a loan production office in Columbia, South Carolina. Columbia is the State capital, the largest city in the State, and the county seat of Richland County, which is the 2nd largest county in the State with a population of over 340,000 residents. Columbia is also home to Fort Jackson, the largest and most active initial entry training center of the United States Army. From 2000 to 2006, the combined estimated population of Richland and neighboring Lexington counties grew 10.1% to approximately 591,000 with FDIC deposits increasing 80.3% to $10.3 billion for the same period. Lending Activities General. We emphasize a range of lending services, including real estate, commercial, and equity-line consumer loans to individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses and professional firms that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in our market area. Our underwriting standards vary for each type of loan, as described below. Since loans typically provide higher interest yields than other types of interest-earning assets, we invest a substantial percentage of our earning assets in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2006, we had net loans of $397.2 million, representing 78.0% of our total assets. We have focused our lending activities primarily on the professional market in Greenville, including doctors, dentists, and small business owners. By focusing on this client base and by serving each client with a consistent relationship team of bankers, we have generated a loan portfolio with larger average loan amounts than we believe is typical for a community bank. As of December 31, 2006, our average loan size was approximately $178,000. Excluding home equity lines of credit, the average loan size was approximately $238,000. At the same time, we have strived to maintain a diversified loan portfolio and limit the amount of our loans to any single client. As of December 31, 2006, our 10 largest client loan relationships represented approximately $54.7 million, or 13.6% of our loan portfolio. Loan Approval. Certain credit risks are inherent in making loans. These include prepayment risks, risks resulting from uncertainties in the future value of collateral, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. We attempt to mitigate repayment risks by adhering to internal credit policies and procedures. These policies and procedures include officer and client lending limits, a multi-layered approval process for larger loans, documentation examination, and follow-up procedures for any exceptions to credit policies. Our loan approval policies provide for various levels of officer lending authority. When the amount of aggregate loans to a single borrower exceeds an individual officer's lending authority, the loan request will be considered by an officer with a higher lending limit or by the officers' loan committee, which is comprised of our four most senior lenders and our chief credit officer. The officers' loan committee has pre-determined lending limits, and any loans in excess of this lending limit will be submitted for approval by the finance committee of our board or by the full board. We do not make any loans to any director or executive officer of the bank unless the loan is approved by the board of directors of the bank and all loans to directors, officers and employees are on terms not more favorable to such person than would be available to a person not affiliated with the bank. 4 Management monitors exposure to credit risk from potential concentrations of loans to particular borrowers or groups of borrowers, industries and geographic regions, as well as concentrations of lending products and practices such as loans that subject borrowers to substantial payment increases (e.g. principal deferral periods, loans with initial interest-only periods, etc.), and loans with high loan-to-value ratios. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $34.2 million, or 8.5% of our loans had loan-to-value ratios which exceeded regulatory supervisory limits, of which fifteen loans totaling approximately $8.2 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. These types of loans are subject to strict underwriting standards and are more closely monitored than a loan with a low loan-to-value ratio. In addition, our allowance for loan loss model considers and allocates a higher reserve for these types of loans. Furthermore, there are industry practices that could subject the company to increased credit risk should economic conditions change over the course of a loan's life. For example, the company makes variable rate loans and fixed rate principal-amortizing loans with maturities prior to the loan being fully paid (i.e. balloon payment loans). The various types of loans are individually underwritten and monitored to manage the associated risks. Credit Administration and Loan Review. We maintain a continuous loan review system. We also apply a credit grading system to each loan, and we use an independent consultant to review the loan files on a test basis to assess the grading of each loan. The bank has a chief credit officer that reviews performance benchmarks established by management in the areas of nonperforming assets, charge-offs, past dues, and loan documentation. Each loan officer is responsible for each loan he or she makes, regardless of whether other individuals or committees joined in the approval. This responsibility continues until the loan is repaid or until the loan is officially assigned to another officer. Lending Limits. Our lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by federal law. In general, the bank is subject to a legal limit on loans to a single borrower equal to 15% of the bank's capital and unimpaired surplus. Based upon the capitalization of the bank at December 31, 2006, we self-imposed a loan limit of $5.0 million per borrower, which represented approximately 75% of our legal lending limit at December 31, 2006. These limits will increase or decrease in response to increases or decreases in the bank's level of capital. We are able to sell participations in our larger loans to other financial institutions, which allow us to manage the risk involved in these loans and to meet the lending needs of our clients requiring extensions of credit in excess of these limits. Real Estate Mortgage Loans. The principal component of our loan portfolio is loans secured by real estate mortgages. We obtain a security interest in real estate whenever possible, in addition to any other available collateral, in order to increase the likelihood of the ultimate repayment of the loan. At December 31, 2006, loans secured by first or second mortgages on real estate made up approximately 81.5% of our loan portfolio. These loans will generally fall into one of four categories: commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, residential real estate loans, or home equity loans. Most of our real estate loans are secured by residential or commercial property. Interest rates for all categories may be fixed or adjustable, and will more likely be fixed for shorter-term loans. We generally charge an origination fee for each loan which is taken into income over the life of the loan as an adjustment to the loan yield. Other loan fees consist primarily of late charge fees. Real estate loans are subject to the same general risks as other loans and are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the value of real estate. Fluctuations in the value of real estate, as well as other factors arising after a loan has been made, could negatively affect a borrower's cash flow, creditworthiness, and ability to repay the loan. • Commercial Real Estate Loans. At December 31, 2006, our individual commercial real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $12,000 to $3.2 million, with an average loan size of approximately $404,000. These loans generally have terms of five years or less, although payments may be structured on a longer amortization basis. We evaluate each borrower on an individual basis and attempt to determine the business risks and credit profile of each borrower. We attempt to reduce credit risk in the commercial real estate portfolio by emphasizing loans on owner-occupied office and retail buildings where the loan-to-value ratio, established by independent appraisals, does not exceed 85%. We also generally require that a borrower's cash flow exceeds 115% of monthly debt service obligations. In order to ensure secondary sources of payment and liquidity to support a loan request, we typically review all of the personal financial statements of the principal owners and require their personal guarantees. At December 31, 2006, commercial real estate loans (other than construction loans) amounted to $203.7 million, or approximately 50.6% of our loan portfolio. Of our commercial real estate loan portfolio, $126.0 million in loans were not owner-occupied properties, representing 61.9% of our commercial real estate portfolio and 31.3% of our total loan portfolio. The remainder of our commercial real estate loan portfolio, $77.7 million in loans or 38.1% of the commercial loan portfolio, were owner-occupied. Owner-occupied loans represented 19.3% of our total loan portfolio. 5 • Construction and Development Real Estate Loans. We offer adjustable and fixed rate residential and commercial construction loans to builders and developers and to consumers who wish to build their own homes. At December 31, 2006, our commercial construction and development real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $18,000 to $3.5 million, with an average loan size of approximately $481,000. At December 31, 2006, our individual residential construction and development real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $15,000 to $2.1 million, with an average loan size of approximately $358,000. The duration of our construction and development loans generally is limited to 18 months, although payments may be structured on a longer amortization basis. Construction and development loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. Specific risks include: • cost overruns; • mismanaged construction; • inferior or improper construction techniques; • economic changes or downturns during construction; • a downturn in the real estate market; • rising interest rates which may prevent sale of the property; and • failure to sell completed projects in a timely manner. We attempt to reduce the risk associated with construction and development loans by obtaining personal guarantees where possible and by keeping the loan-to-value ratio of the completed project at or below 80%. At December 31, 2006, total construction loans amounted to $28.7 million, or 7.1% of our loan portfolio. Included in the $28.7 million was $20.5 million, or 5.1% of our loan portfolio, that were commercial construction, and $8.3 million, or 2.1% of our loan portfolio, that were consumer construction loans. • Residential Real Estate Loans and Home Equity Loans. We do not generally originate traditional long term residential mortgages, but we do issue traditional second mortgage residential real estate loans and home equity lines of credit. At December 31, 2006, our individual residential real estate loans ranged in size from $7,500 to $1.5 million, with an average loan size of approximately $252,000. Generally, we limit the loan-to-value ratio on our residential real estate loans to 85%. We offer fixed and adjustable rate residential real estate loans with terms of up to 30 years. We typically offer these fixed rate loans through a third party rather than originating and retaining these loans ourselves. We also offer home equity lines of credit. At December 31, 2006, our individual home equity lines of credit ranged in size from $1,000 to $1.1 million, with an average of approximately $89,000. Our underwriting criteria and the risks associated with home equity loans and lines of credit are generally the same as those for first mortgage loans. Home equity lines of credit typically have terms of five years or less. We generally limit the extension of credit to 90% of the available equity of each property, although we may extend up to 100% of the available equity. At December 31, 2006, residential real estate loans (other than construction loans) amounted to $95.2 million, or 23.7% of our loan portfolio. Included in the residential real estate loans was $59.2 million, or 14.7% of our loan portfolio, in first and second mortgages on individuals' homes, and $36.0 million, or 8.9% of our loan portfolio, in home equity loans. Commercial Business Loans. We make loans for commercial purposes in various lines of businesses, including the manufacturing, service industry, and professional service areas. At December 31, 2006, our individual commercial business loans ranged in size from approximately $1,000 to $2.3 million, with an average loan size of approximately $129,000. Commercial loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first or second mortgages on real estate because commercial loans may be unsecured, or if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease than real estate. At December 31, 2006, commercial business loans amounted to $65.9 million, or 16.4% of our loan portfolio. We are eligible to offer small business loans utilizing government enhancements such as the Small Business Administration's ("SBA") 7(a) program and SBA's 504 programs. These loans typically are partially guaranteed by the government, which helps to reduce their risk. Government guarantees of SBA loans do not exceed, and are generally less than, 80% of the loan. As of December 31, 2006, we had not originated any small business loans utilizing government enhancements. 6 Consumer Loans. We make a variety of loans to individuals for personal and household purposes, including secured and unsecured installment loans and revolving lines of credit. Consumer loans are underwritten based on the borrower's income, current debt level, past credit history, and the availability and value of collateral. Consumer rates are both fixed and variable, with terms negotiable. At December 31, 2006, our individual consumer loans ranged in size from $100 to $1.6 million, with an average loan size of approximately $19,000. Our installment loans typically amortize over periods up to 60 months. We will offer consumer loans with a single maturity date when a specific source of repayment is available. We typically require monthly payments of interest and a portion of the principal on our revolving loan products. Consumer loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first or second mortgages on real estate because they may be unsecured, or, if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease in value than real estate. At December 31, 2006, consumer loans amounted to $9.5 million, or 2.4% of our loan portfolio. Deposit Services Our principal source of funds is core deposits. We offer a full range of deposit services, including checking accounts, commercial checking accounts, savings accounts, and other time deposits of various types, ranging from daily money market accounts to long-term certificates of deposit. Because of the historically low interest rate environment in the last three years, we have chosen to obtain a portion of our deposits from outside our local market. Our out-of-market, or wholesale, certificates of deposits represented 26.4% of total deposits at December 31, 2006. The deposits obtained outside of our market area generally have lower rates than rates being offered for certificates of deposits in our local market. This funding strategy allowed us to operate in only three locations, maintain a smaller staff, and not incur significant marketing costs to advertise deposit rates, which in turn has allowed us to maintain our focus on growing our loan portfolio. In an effort to obtain lower costing deposits, we are focusing on expanding our retail deposit program. Accordingly, we opened two new retail deposit offices, one in the first quarter of 2005 and the other in the third quarter of 2005, which are assisting us in obtaining low cost transaction accounts that are less affected by rising rates. Deposit rates are reviewed regularly by senior management of the bank. We believe that the rates we offer are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our area. We focus on customer service and our ClientFIRST culture to attract and retain deposits. Other Banking Services We offer other bank services including safe deposit boxes, traveler's checks, direct deposit, United States Savings Bonds, and banking by mail. We earn fees for most of these services, including debit and credit card transactions, sales of checks, and wire transfers. We also receive ATM transaction fees from transactions performed by our clients. We are associated with the Honor, Cirrus, and Master-Money ATM networks, which are available to our clients throughout the country. Since we outsource our ATM services, we are charged related transaction fees from our ATM service provider. We have contracted with Fidelity Integrated Financial Solutions, an outside computer service company, to provide our core data processing services and our ATM processing. By outsourcing these services, we believe we are able to reduce our overhead by matching the expense in each period to the transaction volume that occurs during the period, as a significant portion of the fee charged is directly related to the number of loan and deposit accounts and the related number of transactions we have during the period. We believe that by being associated with a shared network of ATMs, we are better able to serve our clients and are able to attract clients who are accustomed to the convenience of using ATMs, although we do not believe that maintaining this association is critical to our success. We also offer Internet banking services, bill payment services, and cash management services. We do not expect to exercise trust powers during our next few years of operations. Competition The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. Competition among financial institutions is based upon interest rates offered on deposit accounts, interest rates charged on loans, other credit and service charges relating to loans, the quality and scope of the services rendered, the convenience of banking facilities, and, in the case of loans to commercial borrowers, relative lending limits. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in Greenville County and elsewhere. As of June 30, 2006, there were 28 financial institutions other than us in Greenville County. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources and lending limits, such as BB&T, Bank of America, Wachovia, and Carolina First Bank. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that we do not provide. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks. We believe our commitment to quality and personalized banking services through our Client FIRST culture is a factor that contributes to our competitiveness and success. 7 Market ShareAs of June 30, 2006, the most recent date for which market data is available, total deposits in the bank's primary service area were over $8.4 billion, which represented an 8.6% deposit increase from 2005. At June 30, 2006, the bank represented 3.6% of the market. Employees At March 20, 2007, we employed a total of 68 full-time and 2 part-time employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Both the company and the bank are subject to extensive state and federal banking laws and regulations that impose specific requirements or restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of virtually all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The following summary is qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions discussed. Changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on our business and prospects. Our operations may be affected by legislative changes and the policies of various regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the effect that fiscal or monetary policies, economic control, or new federal or state legislation may have on our business and earnings in the future. The following discussion is not intended to be a complete list of all the activities regulated by the banking laws or of the impact of such laws and regulations on our operations. It is intended only to briefly summarize some material provisions. Greenville First Bancshares, Inc. We own 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the bank, and therefore we are considered to be a bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Bank Holding Company Act"). As a result, we are primarily subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve") under the Bank Holding Company Act and its regulations promulgated thereunder. Moreover, as a bank holding company of a bank located in South Carolina, we also are subject to the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act. Permitted Activities. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, a bank holding company is generally permitted to engage in, or acquire direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in, the following activities: • banking or managing or controlling banks; • furnishing services to or performing services for our subsidiaries; and • any activity that the Federal Reserve determines to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking. Activities that the Federal Reserve has found to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking include: • factoring accounts receivable; • making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans and usual related activities; • leasing personal or real property; • operating a non-bank depository institution, such as a savings association; • trust company functions; • financial and investment advisory activities; • conducting discount securities brokerage activities; • underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments; • providing specified management consulting and counseling activities; • performing selected data processing services and support services; 8 • acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions; and • performing selected insurance underwriting activities. As a bank holding company we also can elect to be treated as a "financial holding company," which would allow us engage in a broader array of activities. In sum, a financial holding company can engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complimentary to financial activities, including insurance underwriting, sales and brokerage activities, providing financial and investment advisory services, underwriting services and limited merchant banking activities. We have not sought financial holding company status, but may elect such status in the future as our business matures. If we were to elect in writing for financial holding company status, each insured depository institution we control would have to be well capitalized, well managed and have at least a satisfactory rating under the CRA (discussed below). The Federal Reserve has the authority to order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any of these activities or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when it has reasonable cause to believe that the bank holding company's continued ownership, activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of it or any of its bank subsidiaries. Change in Control. In addition, and subject to certain exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with regulations promulgated there under, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring "control" of a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company. Control is rebuttably presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities and either the company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or no other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. Our common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act. The regulations provide a procedure for rebutting control when ownership of any class of voting securities is below 25%. Source of Strength. In accordance with Federal Reserve Board policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength to the bank and to commit resources to support the bank in circumstances in which we might not otherwise do so. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a non-bank subsidiary, other than a non-bank subsidiary of a bank, upon the Federal Reserve's determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any depository institution subsidiary of a bank holding company. Further, federal bank regulatory authorities have additional discretion to require a bank holding company to divest itself of any bank or non-bank subsidiaries if the agency determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution's financial condition. Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve Board imposes certain capital requirements on the bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of "qualifying" capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under "Greenville First Bank - Capital Regulations." Subject to our capital requirements and certain other restrictions, we are able to borrow money to make a capital contribution to the bank, and these loans may be repaid from dividends paid from the bank to the company. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory restrictions as described below in "Greenville First Bank - Dividends." We are also able to raise capital for contribution to the bank by issuing securities without having to receive regulatory approval, subject to compliance with federal and state securities laws. South Carolina State Regulation. As a South Carolina bank holding company under the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, we are subject to limitations on sale or merger and to regulation by the South Carolina Board of Financial Institutions (the "S.C. Board"). We are not required to obtain the approval of the S.C. Board prior to acquiring the capital stock of a national bank, but we must notify them at least 15 days prior to doing so. We must receive the Board's approval prior to engaging in the acquisition of a South Carolina state chartered bank or another South Carolina bank holding company. 9 Greenville First Bank, N.A. The bank operates as a national banking association incorporated under the laws of the United States and subject to examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "Comptroller") . Deposits in the bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to a maximum amount, which is currently $100,000 for each non-retirement depositor and $250,000 for certain retirement-account depositors. The Comptroller and the FDIC regulate or monitor virtually all areas of the bank's operations, including • security devices and procedures; • adequacy of capitalization and loss reserves; • loans; • investments; • borrowings; • deposits; • mergers; • issuances of securities; • payment of dividends; • interest rates payable on deposits; • interest rates or fees chargeable on loans; • establishment of branches; • corporate reorganizations; • maintenance of books and records; and • adequacy of staff training to carry on safe lending and deposit gathering practices. The Comptroller requires the bank to maintain specified capital ratios and imposes limitations on the bank's aggregate investment in real estate, bank premises, and furniture and fixtures. The Comptroller of the Currency also requires the bank to prepare annual reports on the bank's financial condition and to conduct an annual audit of its financial affairs in compliance with its minimum standards and procedures. All insured institutions must undergo regular on-site examinations by their appropriate banking agency. The cost of examinations of insured depository institutions and any affiliates may be assessed by the appropriate federal banking agency against each institution or affiliate as it deems necessary or appropriate. Insured institutions are required to submit annual reports to the FDIC, their federal regulatory agency, and state supervisor when applicable. The FDIC has developed a method for insured depository institutions to provide supplemental disclosure of the estimated fair market value of assets and liabilities, to the extent feasible and practicable, in any balance sheet, financial statement, report of condition or any other report of any insured depository institution. The federal banking regulatory agencies to prescribe, by regulation, standards for all insured depository institutions and depository institution holding companies relating, among other things, to the following: • internal controls; • information systems and audit systems; • loan documentation; • credit underwriting; • interest rate risk exposure; and • asset quality. Prompt Corrective Action. As an insured depository institution, the bank is required to comply with the capital requirements promulgated under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the Comptroller's prompt corrective action regulations thereunder, which set forth five capital categories, each with specific regulatory consequences. Under these regulations, the categories are: • Well Capitalized - The institution exceeds the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. A well capitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater and (iv) that is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 10 • Adequately Capitalized - The institution meets the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. No capital distribution may be made that would result in the institution becoming undercapitalized. An adequately capitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of 4% or greater and (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of 4% or greater or a leverage capital ratio of 3% or greater if the institution is rated composite 1 under the CAMELS (Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, Liquidity and Sensitivity to market risk) rating system. • Undercapitalized - - The institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. An undercapitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of less than 8% or (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of less than 4% or (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of less than 4%, or if the institution is rated a composite 1 under the CAMEL rating system, a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. • Significantly Undercapitalized - The institution is significantly below the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. A significantly undercapitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of less than 6% or (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. • Critically Undercapitalized - The institution fails to meet a critical capital level set by the appropriate federal banking agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is one having a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. If the Comptroller determines, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition, the regulator is authorized to reclassify the bank to the next lower capital category (other than critically undercapitalized) and require the submission of a plan to correct the unsafe or unsound condition. If the bank is not well capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval and, if approval is granted, cannot offer an effective yield in excess of 75 basis points on interests paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity in such institution's normal market area for deposits accepted from within its normal market area, or national rate paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity for deposits accepted outside the bank's normal market area. Moreover, if the bank becomes less than adequately capitalized, it must adopt a capital restoration plan acceptable to the Comptroller that is subject to a limited performance guarantee by the corporation. The bank also would become subject to increased regulatory oversight, and is increasingly restricted in the scope of its permissible activities. Each company having control over an undercapitalized institution also must provide a limited guarantee that the institution will comply with its capital restoration plan. Except under limited circumstances consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, an undercapitalized institution may not grow. An undercapitalized institution may not acquire another institution, establish additional branch offices or engage in any new line of business unless determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency to be consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, or unless the FDIC determines that the proposed action will further the purpose of prompt corrective action. The appropriate federal banking agency may take any action authorized for a significantly undercapitalized institution if an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails in any material respect to implement a plan accepted by the agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is subject to having a receiver or conservator appointed to manage its affairs and for loss of its charter to conduct banking activities. An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution, would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. Thus, if payment of such a management fee or the making of such would cause the bank to become undercapitalized, it could not pay a management fee or dividend to us. As of December 31, 2006, the bank was deemed to be "well capitalized." Deposit Insurance and Assessments. Deposits at the bank are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the "DIF") as administered by the FDIC, up to the applicable limits established by law - generally $100,000 per accountholder and $250,000 for certain retirement accountholders. In accordance with regulations adopted to implement the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 ("FDIRA"), deposit insurance premium assessments are based upon perceived risks to the DIF, by evaluating an institution's supervisory ratios and other financial ratios and then determining insurance premiums based upon the likelihood an institution could be downgraded to a CAMELS 3 or worse in the succeeding year. As a result, institutions deemed to pose less risk, pay lower premiums than those institutions deemed to pose more risk, which pay more. 11 FDIRA caps the amount of the DIF at 1.50% of domestic deposits. The FDIC must issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for the amount of the DIF over the 1.50% ratio. Additionally, if the DIF exceeds 1.35% of domestic deposits at year-end, the FDIC is required to issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for half of the amount of the excess. Pursuant to the FDIIRA, the FDIC will begin to indexing deposit insurance coverage levels for inflation beginning in 2012. Moreover, if we become undercapitalized we cannot accept employee benefit plan deposits. Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders. The bank is subject to the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, which places limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of the bank's capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of the bank's capital and surplus. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, each covered transaction must meet specified collateral requirements. Compliance is also required with certain provisions designed to avoid the taking of low quality assets. The bank also is subject to the provisions of Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act which, among other things, prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. The bank is subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, certain principal shareholders, and their related interests. Such extensions of credit (i) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The Federal Reserve Board has issued Regulation W, which codifies prior regulations under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and interpretative guidance with respect to affiliate transactions. Regulation W incorporates the exemption from the affiliate transaction rules but expands the exemption to cover the purchase of any type of loan or extension of credit from an affiliate. In addition, under Regulation W: • a bank and its subsidiaries may not purchase a low-quality asset from an affiliate; • covered transactions and other specified transactions between a bank or its subsidiaries and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices; and • with some exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by a bank to an affiliate must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to 130%, depending on the type of collateral, of the amount of the loan or extension of credit. Regulation W generally excludes all non-bank and non-savings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. The regulation also limits the amount of loans that can be purchased by a bank from an affiliate to not more than 100% of the bank's capital and surplus. Dividends. A national bank may not pay cash dividends from its permanent capital. All cash dividends must be paid out of undivided profits then on hand, after deducting expenses, including reserves for losses and bad debts. In addition, a national bank is prohibited from declaring a cash dividend on its shares of common stock until its surplus equals its stated capital, unless there has been transferred to surplus no less than one-tenth of the bank's net profits of the preceding two consecutive half-year periods (in the case of an annual dividend). The approval of the Comptroller is required if the total of all cash dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Branching. National banks are required by the National Bank Act to adhere to branch office banking laws applicable to state banks in the states in which they are located. Under current South Carolina law, the bank may open branch offices throughout South Carolina with the prior approval of the Comptroller. In addition, with prior regulatory approval, the bank is able to acquire existing banking operations in South Carolina. Furthermore, federal legislation permits interstate branching, including out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks if allowed by state law, and interstate merging by banks. South Carolina law, with limited exceptions, currently permits branching across state lines through interstate mergers. 12 Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act requires that the Comptroller evaluate the record of the bank in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on our bank. Finance Subsidiaries. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA"), subject to certain conditions imposed by their respective banking regulators, national and state-chartered banks are permitted to form "financial subsidiaries" that may conduct financial or incidental activities, thereby permitting bank subsidiaries to engage in certain activities that previously were impermissible. The GLBA imposes several safeguards and restrictions on financial subsidiaries, including that the parent bank's equity investment in the financial subsidiary be deducted from the bank's assets and tangible equity for purposes of calculating the bank's capital adequacy. In addition, the GLBA imposes new restrictions on transactions between a bank and its financial subsidiaries similar to restrictions applicable to transactions between banks and non-bank affiliates. Other Regulations. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. The bank's loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as: • the federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; • the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; • the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; • the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; • the Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and • the rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws. The deposit operations of the bank also are subject to: • the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and • the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve Board to implement that Act, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers' rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services. Enforcement Powers. The bank and its "institution-affiliated parties," including its management, employees agents independent contractors and consultants such as attorneys and accountants and others who participate in the conduct of the financial institution's affairs, are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. These practices can include the failure of an institution to timely file required reports or the filing of false or misleading information or the submission of inaccurate reports. Civil penalties may be as high as $1,000,000 a day for such violations. Criminal penalties for some financial institution crimes have been increased to twenty years. In addition, regulators are provided with greater flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution-affiliated parties. Possible enforcement actions include the termination of deposit insurance. Furthermore, banking agencies' power to issue cease-and-desist orders were expanded. Such orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice, including restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts, or take other actions as determined by the ordering agency to be appropriate. 13 USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT Act became effective on October 26, 2001, amended, in part, the Bank Secrecy Act and provides, in part, for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering by enhancing anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (i) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; (ii) rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; (iii) reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and (iv) filing suspicious activities reports by brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations and requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons. Under the USA PATRIOT Act, the Federal Bureau of Investigation ("FBI") can send our banking regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. The bank can be requested, to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists. If the bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must file a suspicious activity report and contact the FBI. The Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), which is a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is responsible for helping to insure that United States entities do not engage in transactions with "enemies" of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC has sent, and will send, our banking regulatory agencies lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts. If the bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the FBI. The bank has appointed an OFAC compliance officer to oversee the inspection of its accounts and the filing of any notifications. The bank actively checks high-risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. The bank performs these checks utilizing software, which is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Privacy and Credit Reporting. Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. It is the bank's policy not to disclose any personal information unless required by law. Like other lending institutions, the bank utilizes credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the "FACT Act") authorizes states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the FACT Act. Check 21. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act gives "substitute checks," such as a digital image of a check and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check. Some of the major provisions include: • allowing check truncation without making it mandatory; • demanding that every financial institution communicate to accountholders in writing a description of its substitute check processing program and their rights under the law; • legalizing substitutions for and replacements of paper checks without agreement from consumers; • retaining in place the previously mandated electronic collection and return of checks between financial institutions only when individual agreements are in place; • requiring that when accountholders request verification, financial institutions produce the original check (or a copy that accurately represents the original) and demonstrate that the account debit was accurate and valid; and • requiring the re-crediting of funds to an individual's account on the next business day after a consumer proves that the financial institution has erred. 14 Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies. Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Bank's monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have major effects upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its open market operations in United States government securities and through its regulation of the discount rate on borrowings of member banks and the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action. New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations, and competitive relationships of the nation's financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow our business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth as we continue to expand, and consequently our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods may exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the rapid growth of our bank over the past several years and our relatively short operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as "seasoning." As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 An economic downturn, especially one affecting the Greenville County area, could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets, especially in Greenville County. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. An economic downturn would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 89.3% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006. If an economic downturn occurs in the economy as a whole, or especially in the Greenville County area, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. An economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on key individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. R. Arthur Seaver, Jr., our chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our primary market area and substantial experience with our operations, and he has contributed significantly to our growth. If we lose the services of Mr. Seaver, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as other management personnel, including Justin Strickland, Jim Austin, Fred Gilmer, III, and Eddie Terrell. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel, or the loss of the services of several of such key personnel, could adversely affect our growth strategy and seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 16 Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our management will be required to issue a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our internal control over financial reporting, in addition to our management's assessment. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008, then we could be subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer. In addition, the new rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets, such as the announced Columbia, SC market, or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; 17 • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and• the risk of loss of key employees and customers. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. To expand our upstate franchise successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we may expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from more established financial institutions. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy requires both management and financial resources and is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $34.2 million of our loans, or 8.5% of total loans and 98.9% of our bank's capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which fifteen loans totaling approximately $8.2 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. Included in the $34.2 million of loans that exceeded supervisory guidelines at December 31, 2006, $23.0 million of our commercial loans, or 5.7% of total loans, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the risk of delinquencies and defaults in our portfolio. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 81.4% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. 18 A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to our loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the loans that we make are subject to written loan policies adopted by our board of directors and to supervisory guidelines imposed by our regulators. Our loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans that we make by requiring our loan officers to take certain steps that vary depending on the type and amount of the loan, prior to closing a loan. These steps include, among other things, making sure the proper liens are documented and perfected on property securing a loan, and requiring proof of adequate insurance coverage on property securing loans. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as "exceptions." We categorize exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 9% of the loans in our portfolio included collateral exceptions to our loan policies, which significantly exceeds the 15% suggested by our regulators. As a result of these exceptions, such loans may have a higher risk of loan loss than the other loans in our portfolio that fully comply with our loan policies. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 