ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s substantial debt may adversely affect its business, financial condition and financial results. The Company has borrowed substantially in the past and will continue to borrow in the future. At December 31, 2012, Lamar Advertising Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Lamar Media, had approximately $2.16 billion of total debt outstanding, consisting of approximately $384.7 million in bank debt, $339.1 million of senior notes and $1.4 billion in various series of senior subordinated notes. Despite the level of debt presently outstanding, the terms of the indentures governing Lamar Media’s notes and the terms of the senior credit facility allow Lamar Media to incur substantially more debt, including approximately $242.3 million available for borrowing as of December 31, 2012 under the revolving senior credit facility. The Company’s substantial debt and its use of cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on its debt may, among other things: • make it more difficult for the Company to comply with the financial covenants in its senior credit facility, which could result in a default and an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the facility; • limit the cash flow available to fund the Company’s working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to those of its competitors that have less relative debt; • force the Company to seek and obtain alternate or additional sources of funding, which may be unavailable, or may be on less favorable terms, or may require the Company to obtain the consent of lenders under its senior credit facility or the holders of its other debt; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; and • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Any of these problems could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. Restrictions in the Company’s and Lamar Media’s debt agreements reduce operating flexibility and contain covenants and restrictions that create the potential for defaults, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. The terms of the indentures relating to Lamar Media’s senior credit facility and the indentures relating to Lamar Media’s outstanding notes restrict the ability of the Company and Lamar Media to, among other things: • incur or repay debt; • dispose of assets; • create liens; • make investments; • enter into affiliate transactions; and • pay dividends and make inter-company distributions. The terms of Lamar Media’s senior credit facility also restrict it from exceeding specified total holdings debt ratio and senior debt ratio and require it to maintain a specified minimum fixed charges coverage ratio. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of the specific financial ratio requirements under the senior credit facility. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to comply with the financial covenants in the senior credit facility and the indentures governing Lamar Media’s outstanding notes (and to comply with similar covenants in any future agreements) depends on its operating performance, which in turn depends significantly on prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Therefore, despite its best efforts and execution of its strategic plan, the Company may be unable to comply with these financial covenants in the future. Although we are currently in compliance with all financial covenants, the Company’s operating results were negatively impacted by the recent economic recession and there can be no assurance that the current economic environment will not further impact the Company’s results and, in turn, its ability to meet these requirements in the future. If Lamar Media fails to comply with its financial covenants, the lenders under the senior credit facility could accelerate all of the debt outstanding, which would create serious financial problems and could lead to a default under the indentures governing Lamar Media’s outstanding notes. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. In addition, these restrictions reduce the Company’s operating flexibility and could prevent the Company from exploiting investment, acquisition, marketing, or other time-sensitive business opportunities. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and other external events beyond the Company’s control. The Company sells advertising space on outdoor structures to generate revenues. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and has been adversely affected by the most recent economic recession, as evidenced by a 11.9% decline in the Company’s advertising revenues in the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, the occurrence of any of the following external events could further depress the Company’s revenues: • a widespread reallocation of advertising expenditures to other available media by significant users of the Company’s displays; and • a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general or outdoor advertising in particular. There is no guaranty that the potential conversion to a REIT that we are currently evaluating will be implemented or will be successful if implemented. As previously disclosed, we are actively considering an election to real estate investment trust (REIT) status. On November 16, 2012, in conjunction with our review regarding a potential REIT election, we submitted a private letter ruling to the Internal Revenue Service. If we receive a favorable response and decide to proceed with a REIT election, we intend to make the election for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2014, subject to the approval of our board of directors. A favorable IRS ruling, if received, does not guarantee that we would succeed in qualifying as a REIT and there is no certainty as to the timing of a REIT election. We may not ultimately pursue a conversion to a REIT, and we can provide no assurance that a REIT conversion, if completed, will be successfully implemented or achieve the intended benefits. If we are unable to continue to grow through acquisitions, it could adversely affect our future financial performance. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate any completed acquisitions, our financial performance would also be adversely affected. The Company has historically grown through acquisitions. Due to factors related to the recent economic recession, our acquisition activity decreased starting in 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we completed acquisitions for a total cash purchase price of approximately $206 million. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. The future success of our acquisition strategy could be adversely affected by many factors, including the following: • the pool of suitable acquisition candidates is dwindling, and we may have a more difficult time negotiating acquisitions on favorable terms; • we may face increased competition for acquisition candidates from other outdoor advertising companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, which may result in higher prices for those businesses and assets; 11 Table of Contents • we may not have access to the capital needed to finance potential acquisitions and may be unable to obtain any required consents from our current lenders to obtain alternate financing; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and assets effectively with our existing operations and systems as a result of unforeseen difficulties that could divert significant time, attention and effort from management that could otherwise be directed at developing existing business; • we may be unable to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; • we may not realize the benefits and cost savings anticipated in our acquisitions; and • as the industry consolidates further, larger mergers and acquisitions may face substantial scrutiny under antitrust laws. These obstacles to our opportunistic acquisition strategy may have an adverse effect on our future financial results. The Company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company tested goodwill for impairment on December 31, 2012. Based on the Company’s review at December 31, 2012, no impairment charge was required. The Company continues to assess whether factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim impairment test between our annual impairment test dates. For instance, if our market capitalization is below our equity book value for a period of time without recovery, we believe there is a strong presumption that would indicate a triggering event has occurred and it is more likely than not that the fair value of one or both of our reporting units are below their carrying amount. This would require us to test the reporting units for impairment of goodwill. If this presumption cannot be overcome a reporting unit could be impaired under ASC 350 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net earnings. The Company faces competition from larger and more diversified outdoor advertisers and other forms of advertising that could hurt its performance. While the Company enjoys a significant market share in many of its small and medium-sized markets, the Company faces competition from other outdoor advertisers and other media in all of its markets. Although the Company is one of the largest companies focusing exclusively on outdoor advertising in a relatively fragmented industry, it competes against larger companies with diversified operations, such as television, radio and other broadcast media. These diversified competitors have the advantage of cross-selling complementary advertising products to advertisers. The Company also competes against an increasing variety of out-of-home advertising media, such as advertising displays in shopping centers, malls, airports, stadiums, movie theaters and supermarkets, and on taxis, trains and buses. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from other forms of media, including radio, newspapers, direct mail advertising, telephone directories and the Internet. The industry competes for advertising revenue along the following dimensions: exposure (the number of “impressions” an advertisement makes), advertising rates (generally measured in cost-per-thousand impressions), ability to target specific demographic groups or geographies, effectiveness, quality of related services (such as advertising copy design and layout) and customer service. The Company may be unable to compete successfully along these dimensions in the future, and the competitive pressures that the Company faces could adversely affect its profitability or financial performance. Federal, state and local regulation impact the Company’s operations, financial condition and financial results. Outdoor advertising is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Regulations generally restrict the size, spacing, lighting and other aspects of advertising structures and pose a significant barrier to entry and expansion in many markets. Federal law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (the “HBA”), regulates outdoor advertising on Federal — Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems roads. The HBA requires states to “effectively control” outdoor advertising along these roads, and mandates a state compliance program and state standards regarding size, spacing and lighting. The HBA requires any state or political subdivision that compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a Federal — Aid Primary or Interstate highway to pay just compensation to the billboard owner. 12 Table of Contents All states have passed billboard control statutes and regulations at least as restrictive as the federal requirements, including laws requiring the removal of illegal signs at the owner’s expense (and without compensation from the state). Although we believe that the number of our billboards that may be subject to removal as illegal is immaterial, and no state in which we operate has banned billboards entirely, from time to time governments have required us to remove signs and billboards legally erected in accordance with federal, state and local permit requirements and laws. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. We contest laws and regulations that we believe unlawfully restrict our constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of our outdoor advertising business. Using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, state governments have purchased and removed billboards for beautification, and may do so again in the future. Under the power of eminent domain, state or municipal governments have laid claim to property and forced the removal of billboards. Under a concept called amortization by which a governmental body asserts that a billboard operator has earned compensation by continued operation over time, local governments have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (i.e., billboards that conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations). Although the legality of amortization is questionable, it has been upheld in some instances. Often, municipal and county governments also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws, with some local governments prohibiting construction of new billboards or allowing new construction only to replace existing structures. Although we have generally been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for those of our billboards purchased or removed as a result of governmental action, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. We have also introduced and intend to expand the deployment of digital billboards that display static digital advertising copy from various advertisers that change every 6 to 8 seconds. We have encountered some existing regulations that restrict or prohibit these types of digital displays but it has not yet materially impacted our digital deployment. Since digital billboards have only recently been developed and introduced into the market on a large scale, existing regulations that currently do not apply to them by their terms could be revised to impose greater restrictions. These regulations may impose greater restrictions on digital billboards due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety. In January 2013, Scenic America, Inc., a nonprofit membership organization, filed a lawsuit against the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). The complaint alleges that the FHWA exceeded its authority when, in 2007, the agency issued guidance to assist its division offices in evaluating state regulations that authorize the construction and operation of digital billboards that are in conformance with restrictions on “intermittent”, “flashing” or “moving” lights, which restrictions are contained in the individual federal-state agreements that implement the provisions of the HBA. The complaint also alleges that in issuing the digital billboard guidance, the FHWA violated the Administrative Procedures Act by not first engaging in formal rulemaking. The complaint further alleges that the FHWA guidance violated the HBA because it adopted “a new lighting standard” without first amending the provisions of the federal-state agreements. Finally, the complaint alleges that the guidance violates the HBA because digital billboards are themselves “inconsistent with customary use” of outdoor advertising, as that term is used in the HBA. As the principal remedy for these alleged violations, the complaint seeks an injunction vacating the FHWA guidance. If the FHWA guidance is vacated, the agency could then elect to undertake rulemaking or other new administrative action with respect to digital billboards that, if enacted in a way that placed additional restrictions on digital billboards, ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, due to their recent development, relatively few large scale studies have been conducted regarding driver safety issues, if any, related to digital billboards. The U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration conducted a study on whether the presence of digital billboards along roadways is associated with a reduction of driver safety for the public. We understand that this study is currently under internal review and the date of its public release is currently unknown. If the results of this study include adverse findings, it may result in regulations at the federal or state level that impose greater restrictions on digital billboards. Any new restrictions could materially adversely affect both our existing inventory of digital billboards and our plans to expand our digital deployment. The Company’s logo sign contracts are subject to state award and renewal. In 2012, the Company generated approximately 5% of its revenues from state-awarded logo sign contracts. In bidding for these contracts, the Company competes against three other national logo sign providers, as well as numerous smaller, local logo sign providers. A logo sign provider incurs significant start-up costs upon being awarded a new contract. These contracts generally have a term of five to ten years, with additional renewal periods. Some states reserve the right to terminate a contract early, and most contracts require the state to pay compensation to the logo sign provider for early termination. At the end of the contract term, the logo sign provider transfers ownership of the logo sign structures to the state. Depending on the contract, the logo provider may or may not be entitled to compensation for the structures at the end of the contract term. Of the Company’s 23 logo sign contracts in place at December 31, 2012, three are subject to renewal in 2013. The Company may be unable to renew its expiring contracts. The Company may also lose the bidding on new contracts. 13 Table of Contents The Company is controlled by significant stockholders who have the power to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and whose interest in the Company may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2012, members of the Reilly family, including Kevin P. Reilly, Jr., the Company’s Chairman and President, and Sean Reilly, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, owned in the aggregate approximately 17% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, assuming the conversion of all Class B common stock to Class A common stock. As of that date, their combined holdings represented 66% of the voting power of Lamar Advertising’s outstanding capital stock, which would give the Reilly family the power to: • elect the Company’s entire board of directors; • control the Company’s management and policies; and • determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter requiring stockholder approval, including charter amendments, mergers, consolidations and asset sales. The Reilly family may have interests that are different than yours in making these decisions. If the Company’s contingency plans relating to hurricanes fail, the resulting losses could hurt the Company’s business. The Company has determined that it is uneconomical to insure against losses resulting from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Although the Company has developed contingency plans designed to mitigate the threat posed by hurricanes to advertising structures (e.g., removing advertising faces at the onset of a storm, when possible, which better permits the structures to withstand high winds during the storm), these plans could fail and significant losses could result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 