ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to the Company’s business and operations The Company’s substantial debt may adversely affect its business, financial condition and financial results. The Company has borrowed substantially in the past and will continue to borrow in the future. At December 31, 2013, Lamar Advertising Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Lamar Media, had approximately $1.94 billion of total debt outstanding, consisting of approximately $502.1 million in bank debt outstanding under Lamar Media’s senior credit facility and $1.4 billion in various series of senior subordinated notes. Despite the level of debt presently outstanding, the terms of the indentures governing Lamar Media’s notes and the terms of the senior credit facility allow Lamar Media to incur substantially more debt, including approximately $93.0 million available for borrowing as of December 31, 2013 under the revolving senior credit facility. Additionally, on January 10, 2014, Lamar Media completed an institutional private placement of 5 3/8% Senior Notes due 2024 and used the net proceeds of $502.3 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its senior credit facility. On February 3, 2014, Lamar Media amended and restated its existing senior credit facility to (among other changes) increase (i) the revolving credit facility from $250 million to $400 million and (ii) the incremental facility from $300 million to $500 million. The Company’s substantial debt and its use of cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on its debt may, among other things: • make it more difficult for the Company to comply with the financial covenants in its senior credit facility, which could result in a default and an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the facility; • limit the cash flow available to fund the Company’s working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to those of its competitors that have less debt; • force the Company to seek and obtain alternate or additional sources of funding, which may be unavailable, or may be on less favorable terms, or may require the Company to obtain the consent of lenders under its senior credit facility or the holders of its other debt; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; and • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Any of these problems could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. Restrictions in the Company’s and Lamar Media’s debt agreements reduce operating flexibility and contain covenants and restrictions that create the potential for defaults, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. The terms of Lamar Media’s senior credit facility and the indentures relating to Lamar Media’s outstanding notes restrict the ability of the Company and Lamar Media to, among other things: • incur or repay debt; • dispose of assets; • create liens; 10 Table of Contents • make investments; • enter into affiliate transactions; and • pay dividends and make inter-company distributions. At December 31, 2013, the terms of Lamar Media’s senior credit facility also restricted it from exceeding specified total holdings debt ratio and senior debt ratio and required it to maintain a specified minimum fixed charges coverage ratio. Under the senior credit facility as amended and restated on February 3, 2014, Lamar Media is required to maintain a specified senior debt ratio and is subject to certain other financial covenants relating to the incurrence of additional debt. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of the specific financial ratio requirements under the senior credit facility. The Company’s ability to comply with the financial covenants in the senior credit facility and the indentures governing Lamar Media’s outstanding notes (and to comply with similar covenants in any future agreements) depends on its operating performance, which in turn depends significantly on prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Therefore, despite its best efforts and execution of its strategic plan, the Company may be unable to comply with these financial covenants in the future. Although we are currently in compliance with all financial covenants, the Company’s operating results were negatively impacted by the recent economic recession and there can be no assurance that the current economic environment will not further impact the Company’s results and, in turn, its ability to meet these requirements in the future. If Lamar Media fails to comply with its financial covenants, the lenders under the senior credit facility could accelerate all of the debt outstanding, which would create serious financial problems and could lead to a default under the indentures governing Lamar Media’s outstanding notes. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. In addition, these restrictions reduce the Company’s operating flexibility and could prevent the Company from exploiting investment, acquisition, marketing, or other time-sensitive business opportunities. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and other external events beyond the Company’s control. The Company sells advertising space on outdoor structures to generate revenues. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Additionally, the occurrence of any of the following external events could further depress the Company’s revenues: • a widespread reallocation of advertising expenditures to other available media by significant users of the Company’s displays; and • a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general or outdoor advertising in particular. The Company’s growth through acquisitions may be difficult, which could adversely affect our future financial performance. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate any completed acquisitions, our financial performance would also be adversely affected. The Company has historically grown through acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we completed acquisitions for a total cash purchase price of approximately $92 million. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. The future success of our acquisition strategy could be adversely affected by many factors, including the following: • the pool of suitable acquisition candidates is dwindling, and we may have a more difficult time negotiating acquisitions on favorable terms; • we may face increased competition for acquisition candidates from other outdoor advertising companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, which may result in higher prices for those businesses and assets; • we may not have access to the capital needed to finance potential acquisitions and may be unable to obtain any required consents from our current lenders to obtain alternate financing; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and assets effectively with our existing operations and systems as a result of unforeseen difficulties that could divert significant time, attention and effort from management that could otherwise be directed at developing existing business; 11 Table of Contents • we may be unable to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; • we may not realize the benefits and cost savings anticipated in our acquisitions; and • as the industry consolidates further, larger mergers and acquisitions may face substantial scrutiny under antitrust laws. These obstacles to our opportunistic acquisition strategy may have an adverse effect on our future financial results. The Company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company tested goodwill for impairment on December 31, 2013. Based on the Company’s review at December 31, 2013, no impairment charge was required. The Company continues to assess whether factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim impairment test between our annual impairment test dates. For instance, if our market capitalization is below our equity book value for a period of time without recovery, we believe there is a strong presumption that would indicate a triggering event has occurred and it is more likely than not that the fair value of one or both of our reporting units are below their carrying amount. This would require us to test the reporting units for impairment of goodwill. If this presumption cannot be overcome a reporting unit could be impaired under ASC 350 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net earnings. The Company faces competition from larger and more diversified outdoor advertisers and other forms of advertising that could hurt its performance. While the Company enjoys a significant market share in many of its small and medium-sized markets, the Company faces competition from other outdoor advertisers and other media in all of its markets. Although the Company is one of the largest companies focusing exclusively on outdoor advertising in a relatively fragmented industry, it competes against larger companies with diversified operations, such as television, radio and other broadcast media. These diversified competitors have the advantage of cross-selling complementary advertising products to advertisers. The Company also competes against an increasing variety of out-of-home advertising media, such as advertising displays in shopping centers, malls, airports, stadiums, movie theaters and supermarkets, and on taxis, trains and buses. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from other forms of media, including radio, newspapers, direct mail advertising, telephone directories and the Internet. The industry competes for advertising revenue along the following dimensions: exposure (the number of “impressions” an advertisement makes), advertising rates (generally measured in cost-per-thousand impressions), ability to target specific demographic groups or geographies, effectiveness, quality of related services (such as advertising copy design and layout) and customer service. The Company may be unable to compete successfully along these dimensions in the future, and the competitive pressures that the Company faces could adversely affect its profitability or financial performance. Federal, state and local regulation impact the Company’s operations, financial condition and financial results. Outdoor advertising is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Regulations generally restrict the size, spacing, lighting and other aspects of advertising structures and pose a significant barrier to entry and expansion in many markets. Federal law, principally the HBA, regulates outdoor advertising on Federal — Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems roads. The HBA requires states, through the adoption of individual Federal/State Agreements, to “effectively control” outdoor advertising along these roads, and mandates a state compliance program and state standards regarding size, spacing and lighting. The HBA requires any state or political subdivision that compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a Federal — Aid Primary or Interstate highway to pay just compensation to the billboard owner. All states have passed billboard control statutes and regulations at least as restrictive as the federal requirements, including laws requiring the removal of illegal signs at the owner’s expense (and without compensation from the state). Although the Company believes that the number of our billboards that may be subject to removal as illegal is immaterial, and no state in which we operate has banned billboards entirely, from time to time governments have required us to remove signs and billboards legally erected in accordance with federal, state and local permit requirements and laws. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. We contest laws and regulations that we believe unlawfully restrict our constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of our outdoor advertising business. Using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, state governments have purchased and removed billboards for beautification, and may do so again in the future. Under the power of eminent domain, state or municipal governments have laid claim to property and forced the removal of billboards. Under a concept called amortization by which a governmental body asserts that a 12 Table of Contents billboard operator has earned compensation by continued operation over time, local governments have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (i.e., billboards that conformed to applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations). Although the legality of amortization is questionable, it has been upheld in some instances. Often, municipal and county governments also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws, with some local governments prohibiting construction of new billboards or allowing new construction only to replace existing structures. Although we have generally been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for those of our billboards purchased or removed as a result of governmental action, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. We have also introduced and intend to expand the deployment of digital billboards that display static digital advertising copy from various advertisers that change every 6 to 8 seconds. We have encountered some existing regulations that restrict or prohibit these types of digital displays but it has not yet materially impacted our digital deployment. Since digital billboards have only recently been developed and introduced into the market on a large scale, however, existing regulations that currently do not apply to them by their terms could be revised to impose greater restrictions. These regulations may impose greater restrictions on digital billboards due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety. In January 2013, Scenic America, Inc., a nonprofit membership organization, filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Highway Administration. The complaint alleges that the FHWA exceeded its authority when the agency issued the 2007 Guidance to assist its division offices in evaluating state regulations that authorize the construction and operation of digital billboards that are in conformance with restrictions on “intermittent”, “flashing” or “moving” lights, which restrictions are contained in the individual Federal/State Agreements that implement the provisions of the HBA. The complaint also alleges that in issuing the 2007 Guidance, the FHWA violated the Administrative Procedures Act by not first engaging in formal rulemaking. The complaint further alleges that the 2007 Guidance violated the HBA because it adopted “a new lighting standard” without first amending the provisions of the Federal/State Agreements. Finally, the complaint alleges that the 2007 Guidance violates the HBA because digital billboards are themselves “inconsistent with customary use” of outdoor advertising, as that term is used in the HBA. As the principal remedy for these alleged violations, the complaint seeks an injunction vacating the 2007 Guidance. If the 2007 Guidance is vacated, the agency could then elect to undertake rulemaking or other new administrative action with respect to digital billboards that, if enacted in a way that placed additional restrictions on digital billboards, ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 30, 2013, USDOT and FHWA published a Notice encouraging states to work with the FHWA to review their Federal/State Agreements, most of which were put in place in the late 1960s and early 1970s, to determine if amendments are advisable. FHWA encouraged each state to work with their FHWA division offices to amend its Federal/State Agreement so that it is consistent with the state’s current outdoor advertising objectives and address the evolving technology being used or that could be used in the future by the outdoor industry. The Notice details a multi-step process to achieve this goal. The Notice does not make any reference to the 2007 Guidance, nor does it recommend or require any specific substantive amendments to a state’s Federal/State Agreement. It is uncertain whether the FHWA Notice will have any impact on current federal, state or local regulation of outdoor advertising signs or on the above referenced Scenic America law suit. To the extent that any Federal/State Agreements are amended in a manner that places new restrictions on outdoor advertising it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Relatively few large scale studies have been conducted to date regarding driver safety issues, if any, related to digital billboards. On December 30, 2013, the results of a study conducted by USDOT and FHWA that looked at the effect of digital billboards and conventional billboards on driver visual behavior were issued. The conclusions of the report indicated that the presence of digital billboards did not appear to be related to a decrease in looking toward the road ahead and were generally within acceptable thresholds. The report cautioned, however, that it adds to the knowledge base but does not present definitive answers to the research questions investigated. Accordingly, the results of this or other studies may result in regulations at the federal or state level that impose greater restrictions on digital billboards. Any new restrictions on digital billboards could have a material adverse effect on both our existing inventory of digital billboards and our plans to expand our digital deployment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. The Company’s logo sign contracts are subject to state award and renewal. In 2013, the Company generated approximately 5% of its revenues from state-awarded logo sign contracts. In bidding for these contracts, the Company competes against three other national logo sign providers, as well as numerous smaller, local logo sign providers. A logo sign provider incurs significant start-up costs upon being awarded a new contract. These contracts generally have a term of five to ten years, with additional renewal periods. Some states reserve the right to terminate a contract early, and most contracts require the state to pay compensation to the logo sign provider for early termination. At the end of the contract term, the logo sign provider transfers ownership of the logo sign structures to the state. Depending on the contract, the logo provider may or may not be entitled to compensation for the structures at the end of the contract term. 13 Table of Contents Of the Company’s 23 logo sign contracts in place at December 31, 2013, five are subject to renewal in 2014. The Company may be unable to renew its expiring contracts. The Company may also lose the bidding on new contracts. The Company is controlled by significant stockholders who have the power to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and whose interest in the Company may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2013, members of the Reilly family, including Kevin P. Reilly, Jr., the Company’s Chairman and President, and Sean Reilly, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, owned in the aggregate approximately 16% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, assuming the conversion of all Class B common stock to Class A common stock. As of that date, their combined holdings represented approximately 65% of the voting power of Lamar Advertising’s outstanding capital stock, which would give the Reilly family the power to: • elect the Company’s entire board of directors; • control the Company’s management and policies; and • determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter requiring stockholder approval, including charter amendments, mergers, consolidations and asset sales. The Reilly family may have interests that are different than yours in making these decisions. If the Company’s contingency plans relating to hurricanes and other natural disasters fail, the resulting losses could hurt the Company’s business. The Company has determined that it is uneconomical to insure against losses resulting from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Although the Company has developed contingency plans designed to mitigate the threat posed by hurricanes and other forms of inclement weather to advertising structures (e.g., removing advertising faces at the onset of a storm, when possible, which better permits the structures to withstand high winds during the storm), these plans could fail and significant losses could result. Risks related to Lamar Advertising’s potential REIT conversion The Company may not elect to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ending December 31, 2014 or for any future period. Because the timing and availability of the REIT election is uncertain, Lamar Advertising and its subsidiaries may not realize the anticipated tax benefits from the REIT conversion for the taxable year ending December 31, 2014 or at all. As previously disclosed, Lamar Advertising is considering an election to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes effective January 1, 2014. However, its election to be taxed as a REIT depends on numerous factors, including the receipt of a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), the approval of the election by its board of directors and its ability to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT during its taxable year ending December 31, 2014. If the Company does not elect REIT status for its taxable year ending December 31, 2014, the benefits attributable to the Company’s qualification and taxation as a REIT, including its ability to reduce its corporate level federal income tax through distributions to its stockholders, would not commence for the taxable year beginning on January 1, 2014, and the Company together with its subsidiaries, would pay corporate level income taxes on its taxable income, to the extent net operating losses are not available to reduce its taxable income, until such time, if any, as Lamar Advertising became a REIT. Additionally, even if all steps necessary to implement the REIT conversion are effected, the board of directors of Lamar Advertising may decide not to elect REIT status, or to delay such election, if it determines in its sole discretion that it is not in the best interests of Lamar Advertising or its stockholders. If Lamar Advertising fails to qualify as a REIT or fails to remain qualified as a REIT, both Lamar Advertising and Lamar Media would be taxed as regular C corporations and would not be able to deduct distributions to the stockholders of Lamar Advertising when computing their taxable income. REIT qualification involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the “Code”) to Lamar Advertising’s operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within its control. There are limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although Lamar Advertising plans to operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules starting with its taxable year ending December 31, 2014, the Company cannot assure you that it will so qualify or remain so qualified. If Lamar Advertising makes the REIT election, Lamar Media will be treated as a qualified REIT subsidiary that is disregarded as separate from its parent REIT for federal income tax purposes. 14 Table of Contents If, in any taxable year, Lamar Advertising fails to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and is not entitled to relief under the Code: • it will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income; • it and its subsidiaries, including Lamar Media, will be subject to applicable federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates; and • it would be disqualified from REIT tax treatment for the four taxable years following the year during which it was so disqualified. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Lamar Advertising’s stockholders, may require it to borrow funds (under Lamar Media’s senior credit facility or otherwise) or liquidate some investments to pay any such additional tax liability. This adverse impact could last for five or more years because, unless it is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, it will be taxable as a corporation, beginning in the year in which the failure occurs, and it will not be allowed to re-elect to be taxed as a REIT for the following four years. Even if Lamar Advertising qualifies as a REIT, certain of its and its subsidiaries’ business activities will be subject to corporate level income tax and foreign taxes, which will continue to reduce its cash flows, and it will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities. Even if Lamar Advertising qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it and its subsidiaries may be subject to certain federal, state , local and foreign taxes on its income and assets, including alternative minimum taxes, taxes on any undistributed income, and state, local or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, Lamar Advertising could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, Lamar Advertising, through Lamar Media, plans to hold certain of its non-qualifying REIT assets and to receive certain non-qualifying items of income through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs. These non-qualifying REIT assets consist principally of assets relating to its transit business and certain services. Those TRS assets and operations would continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes. Furthermore, Lamar Advertising’s assets and operations outside the United States will continue to be subject to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which those assets and operations are located. Any of these taxes would decrease Lamar Media’s and Lamar Advertising’s earnings and the cash available for distributions to the stockholders of Lamar Advertising. Lamar Advertising will also be subject to a federal corporate level tax at the highest regular corporate rate (currently 35%) on all or a portion of the gain recognized from a sale of assets occurring within a specified period (generally, ten years) after the effective date of its REIT conversion, to the extent of the built-in-gain based on the fair market value of those assets on the effective date of the REIT election in excess of its then tax basis in those assets. If Lamar Advertising elects REIT status for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2014, the tax on subsequently sold assets will be based on the fair market value and built-in-gain of those assets as of January 1, 2014. Gain from a sale of an asset occurring after the specified period ends will not be subject to this corporate level tax. The Company currently does not expect to sell any asset if the sale would result in the imposition of a material tax liability. The Company cannot, however, assure you that it will not change its plans in this regard. In addition, the IRS and any state or local tax authority may successfully assert liabilities against the Company for corporate income taxes for taxable years of Lamar Advertising prior to the time it qualified as a REIT, in which case it will owe these taxes plus applicable interest and penalties, if any. Moreover, any increase in taxable income for these pre-REIT periods will likely result in an increase in earnings and profits, which could cause it to pay an additional taxable distribution to its stockholders after the relevant determination. If Lamar Advertising converts to a REIT, it will be required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its stockholders. If Lamar Advertising converts to a REIT, it will be required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each taxable year at least 90% of its taxable income (net of any available net operating loss carry forwards) in order to qualify as a REIT, and 100% of its taxable income (net of any available net operating loss carry forwards) in order to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes. For these purposes, most of Lamar’s subsidiaries, including Lamar Media, will be treated as part of the REIT and therefore Lamar Advertising also will be required to distribute out their taxable income. To the extent that the Company satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it distributes to its stockholders for a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under the Code. Because the REIT distribution requirements will prevent the Company from retaining earnings, it may be required to refinance debt at maturity with additional debt or equity, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. 15 Table of Contents Covenants specified in our existing and future senior credit facility and debt instruments may limit Lamar Advertising’s ability to make required REIT distributions. Although Lamar Media’s senior credit facility would allow Lamar Media to conduct its affairs in a manner that would allow Lamar Advertising to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT—including by allowing Lamar Media to make distributions to Lamar Advertising required for the Company to qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, subject to certain restrictions—the senior credit facility and the indentures relating to our outstanding notes contain certain covenants that could limit Lamar Advertising’s distributions to its stockholders. If these limits do not jeopardize its qualification for taxation as a REIT but do nevertheless prevent it from distributing 100% of its REIT taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts. Lamar Advertising and its subsidiaries may be required to borrow funds, sell assets, or raise equity to satisfy its REIT distribution requirements or maintain the asset tests. In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and maintain its qualification and taxation as a REIT and avoid corporate income taxes, Lamar Advertising and/or its subsidiaries, including Lamar Media, may need to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, sales or offerings. Any insufficiency of its cash flows to cover Lamar Advertising’s REIT distribution requirements could adversely impact its ability to raise short- and long-term debt, to sell assets, or to offer equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain its qualification and taxation as a REIT and avoid corporate income taxes. Furthermore, the REIT distribution requirements may increase the financing Lamar Advertising needs to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives. This would increase its total leverage. In addition, if Lamar Advertising fails to comply with certain asset tests at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing its REIT qualification. As a result, it may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions may reduce its income and amounts available for distribution to its stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause Lamar Advertising, its subsidiaries (other than TRSs) to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, Lamar Advertising must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of Lamar Advertising common stock. For these purposes, Lamar Advertising is treated as owning the assets of and receiving or accruing the income of its subsidiaries (other than TRSs). Thus, compliance with these tests will require Lamar Advertising and its subsidiaries to refrain from certain activities and may hinder their ability to make certain attractive investments, including investments in the businesses to be conducted by TRSs, and to that extent limit their opportunities. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets may be adversely affected if Lamar Advertising needs or requires the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to closing. Lamar Advertising has no experience operating as a REIT, which may adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of Lamar Class A common stock and ability to satisfy debt service obligations. Lamar Advertising has no operating history as a REIT. In addition, its senior management team has no experience operating a REIT. The Company cannot assure you that its management’s past experience will be sufficient to operate the Company successfully as a REIT. Failure to maintain REIT status could adversely affect Lamar Advertising’s and its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of Lamar Advertising’s Class A common stock and ability to satisfy debt service obligations. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on Lamar Advertising and its subsidiaries. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Federal and state tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and state taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect Lamar Advertising and its subsidiaries. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations applicable to Lamar Advertising may be changed. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure you that any such change will not significantly affect Lamar Advertising’s ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences to it of such qualification. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 