Risk Factors We have incurred losses and anticipate continued losses and negative cash flow; our financial statements are subject to a going concern qualification from the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm that performed our audit. We have generated net losses since inception and expect to continue to incur net losses and generate negative cash flow until we can produce sufficient revenues to cover our costs through the production and sale of our 24/7 Power Packs and other anticipated fuel cell products. We incurred a net loss of approximately $148,422,000, $38,200,000 and $33,047,000 during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We have recently suspended our production operations and curtailed our development programs in an effort to cut costs and preserve cash while we focus on sales and marketing activities. Our inability to become profitable may force us to further curtail or discontinue our research and development programs and manufacturing operations and our other day-to-day operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained on an ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $371,697,000. We may continue to generate net losses for the foreseeable future and cannot predict when we will achieve profitability, if ever. In order for us to remain a going concern, we will need to obtain substantial additional financing to continue our operations and to meet our cash flow needs. In view of our financial situation and current market and economic conditions, we do not know if additional financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we would incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities, including upon the exercise of convertible securities, will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. Any inability to obtain additional financing will materially adversely affect us, including possibly requiring us to significantly further curtail or cease business operations altogether. We require additional funding in order to complete the commercialization of our 24/7 Power Pack, to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. Since inception, we have incurred operating losses and have used cash in our operations. We have relied principally on the sale of our securities to fund our research and development activities and operations. Unless we are able to successfully market our 24/7 Power Pack or any of our other technologies and products, we believe this dependence will continue. We will need additional funding in order to successfully market our 24/7 Power Pack, to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. In addition, we will need additional funding if cost overruns relating to the implementation of our manufacturing lines occur, if our suppliers require us to provide additional funding, if we do not achieve our current commercialization targets, or if we determine to expend additional funds on marketing and advertising our 24/7 Power Pack or other products. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding, or funding on terms acceptable to us, to meet our financial obligations, if necessary, or that a third party will be willing to make such funds available. Our failure to raise additional funds could require us to delay or curtail our marketing and production programs and research and product development efforts, or force us to cease business operations entirely. Additionally, our failure to successfully develop or market our fuel cell products or products derived from any of our other technologies may materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. In any event, it is not possible to make any reliable estimate of the funds required to 11 complete the development of any of our other technologies or successfully market and produce our fuel cell products A commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Although we have developed our business plans assuming a consumer demand for our 24/7 Power Pack and future generations of our fuel cell products, as well as military demand, a commercially acceptable market may never develop for our fuel cell products or Cell Kinetic’s cell carrier products, or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Our fuel cell products represent a new technology and market category, and we do not know with certainty to what extent, if any, end-users will want to purchase and use them. The development of a commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may be affected by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: · the level to which the capabilities of our 24/7 Power Pack, and any other of our fuel cell products, have advanced in performance, shelf-life, stand-by time, time of use, size, weight, cost and other factors that determine consumer acceptance; · the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products; · improvements to existing technologies, including existing rechargeable battery technology or the chips used in the electronic devices that allow the batteries to operate more efficiently or allow the devices to run for longer periods of time; · the future cost of sodium or potassium borohydrides, alkalines, glycerol, or any other hydrogen-based fuels, the catalysts used in our fuel cell products which may require costly metals or other chemicals used for powering our fuel cell products and plastics and nickel used in the products; · regulations that affect or limit the use of the components in our fuel cells or our fuel cells in general or regulations regarding recycling; · consumer perceptions of the safety of our products; and · consumer reluctance to try a new product. If a market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability or positive cash flows. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones and time tables. We establish milestones and time tables based upon our expectations regarding our technologies, plans and programs at that time, which we use to assess our progress toward developing and delivering into the market place commercially acceptable fuel cell products. These milestones relate to technology and design improvements as well as to dates for achieving production and marketing goals. If our products exhibit technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including levels and stability of power output for our 24/7 Power Pack, useful life and reliability or if our production goals cannot be achieved in time or the costs exceed our expectations, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and third parties who are collaborating with us to manufacture or market our fuel cell products may decline to continue that collaboration. Furthermore, potential purchasers of our initial commercial products may lose interest or may opt to purchase alternative technologies. 12 We can give no assurance that our commercialization schedule – including production and sales time tables – will be met as we further develop, produce and sell our fuel cell products. We may be unsuccessful in developing additional fuel cell products or future generations of our 24/7 Power Pack or any of our other technologies. In tandem with the commercialization of our first products and subject to available funds, we are developing other fuel cell products as well as future generations of our 24/7 Power Pack, including a solid fuel, refuelable Power Pack product and specialized products for military use. Developing any technology into a marketable product that a consumer will desire to purchase is a risky, time consuming and expensive process. We may encounter setbacks or discrepancies requiring time consuming and costly redesigns and changes. There also is the possibility of outright failure. Furthermore, we contemplate moving forward with the development of certain of our fuel cell technologies only if we are able to find strategic investors or other joint venture partners or otherwise obtain additional financing. Additionally, we continue to seek to improve our 24/7 Power Pack and our fuel cell technologies in general, particularly in the areas of energy capacity, power density, operating time, shelf life, working life and flexibility of use, as well as the temperature conditions under which they can operate. We also seek to reduce the component costs and costs of the final product, and continue to seek to improve its power management system and each element of the power management system and to improve the efficiency of our manufacturing processes. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in improving our technologies or reducing costs. Generally, we can give no assurance as to when or whether we will successfully develop any of our other planned fuel cell products into commercially successful products. We have limited experience manufacturing our products on a large scale commercial basis. Prior to 2008, we manufactured a limited number of our fuel cell products on our semi-automated production line at our facility in Lod, Israel. In 2008, we shifted our manufacturing efforts to our fully automated production line located at the facilities of our contract manufacturer, Celestica Ireland Ltd., in Galway, Ireland. We can offer no assurance that either we, our contract manufacturer or any other party we have engaged to build a fully automated line production for volume-production of our products have developed production processes that are satisfactorily designed and sufficiently efficient to provide for automated, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel cell products. Furthermore, our manufacturing process is complicated and we rely on a number of subcontracts for the production of various subassemblies. Even if we or our contract manufacturer and our subcontractors are successful in developing such manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we or they will be timely in meeting our product commercialization schedule or the product, production and delivery requirements of potential customers. A failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities or to timely meet such requirements could cause us to lose customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Customers will be unlikely to buy our fuel cell or CKChip™ products unless we can demonstrate that they can be produced for sale to customers and users at attractive prices. The price of our fuel cell products and CKChip products is dependent largely on material and other manufacturing costs. We are unable to offer any assurance that either we or a contract manufacturer will be able to reduce costs to a level which will allow production of a competitive product that the consumer finds attractive or that any product produced using lower cost materials and manufacturing 13 processes will not suffer from a reduction in performance, reliability and longevity. In any event, we can give no assurance that the pricing schedules for our products will be attractive to any of our distributors, representatives or customers. We have developed an estimated pricing structure for our CKChip™ that we believe would be commercially acceptable. However, we can give no assurance that potential CKChip™ customers would respond affirmatively to our pricing structure. We will be unable to market or sell our fuel cell or CKChip™ products if we are unsuccessful in entering into, amending and maintaining sales agreements, arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties. Our ability to market, manufacture and sell our fuel cell technologies or CKChip™ products is wholly dependent on our entry into manufacturing, sales or distributing arrangements, sales agreements, strategic alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties possessing such capabilities. Although to date we have been successful in entering into certain of such arrangements, we can give no assurance that in the future we will be successful in amending such arrangements to take into account new pricing schedules and products or other reasons, or in entering into additional arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or agreements or that the terms of which will be entirely beneficial to us or that existing agreements will result in substantial revenue. Failure to enter into, or amend the terms of, such arrangements with regard to our products could materially and adversely affect our commercialization plans and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, even if we were successful in entering into such arrangements or amending the terms of any such arrangements, any failure to successfully support our products through advertising or marketing programs, whether due to the costs involved or otherwise, or generally any failure by potential end users to purchase our products, could cause those third parties to decline to extend their relationship with us or order additional products from us. We depend on relationships with strategic partners, and many of the terms of these relationships are not certain. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners for the distribution of our 24/7 Power Pack. The terms and conditions of many of these agreements allow for immediate termination, in part or in whole, by the partners in their discretion, or only provide for a commitment on the part of the partners upon the happening of certain milestone events. We can give no assurance that we will meet any of these milestones. Our inability to meet any of the aforementioned milestones, or the termination of any of these agreements by the strategic partner, could adversely affect our ability to distribute our 24/7 Power Pack to the marketplace and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our agreement with Celestica to manage and operate our high volume production line and fuel production facility may be terminated by us, by Celestica, or by mutual agreement at the end of its current term in September 2009, or any consecutive one-year term, by providing the other party six-months prior notice. We are evaluating whether to terminate the agreement with Celestica at the end of the current term. While we believe that we will be able to adequately replace Celestica to manage and operate our production, our inability to do so in a timely manner and on an cost-effective basis, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products and, consequently, our ability to bring our products to market. Although we have received or expect to receive purchase orders pursuant to some of these distribution agreements, various factors, including that the market for our products continues to evolve, 14 have impacted those agreements and purchase orders. Any new product we develop would likely require changes in or additions to the distribution agreements and purchase orders. Accordingly, we are now working with our existing distributors and representatives, with whom we are developing new pricing schedules for our products and introducing our new and existing products. We can give no assurance that any of our distributors or representatives will continue to cooperate with us on the roll-out of our products on the terms and based on the pricing schedules we believe are appropriate. Any such failure to cooperate could adversely affect our ability to distribute our 24/7 Power Pack and emergency kit to the marketplace and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We are and will continue to be dependent on third party suppliers and subcontractors for the supply of key materials and components for our products. We rely upon third party suppliers and subcontractors to provide requisite materials and components, including the power management system of our 24/7 Power Pack product. A supplier’s or subcontractor’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could negatively affect our ability to manufacture our fuel cell products on a timely basis or meet our cost targets or commercialization schedule. We or our contract manufacturers, manufacturing, strategic alliance or joint venture partners may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative suppliers, and that could adversely affect our ability to produce viable fuel cells or significantly raise the cost of producing fuel cells or fuel cell products. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and, to the extent it remains a component of the electrode, we will be dependent upon a sufficient supply of this commodity at a cost that allows us to meet our cost targets for any future fuel cell products. Any shortages in the supply of platinum could raise our cost of producing our fuel cell products beyond our targeted cost, thus lowering our profit margins or adversely affecting our ability to produce fuel cell products at prices consumers would be willing to pay. Problems or delays in our collaboration efforts with third parties to develop or market our fuel cell products could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products. We have entered into agreements with third parties who have agreed to assist us in developing or marketing our fuel cell products, producing and supplying components of our fuel cell products or producing the manufacturing line for our fuel cell products. We are in discussions with other third parties and may enter into similar agreements with such other parties or others in the future, of which we can give no assurances of success. Some of these collaboration agreements contemplate that these third parties will work with our scientists and employees to test various aspects of, assist in developing components of, or market, our fuel cells or fuel cell products. Such tests or development efforts may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly and the failure to maintain and service any test prototypes properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, collaborative efforts, by their nature, often create problems due to miscommunications and disparate expectations and priorities among the parties involved and may result in unexpected modifications and delays in developing or marketing our fuel cell technologies or impact the cost of making and delivering our fuel cell products. Any such problems or perceived problems with these collaborative efforts could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products and technologies. 15 Product liability or defects could negatively impact our results of operations. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions or design defects could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a well publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, resulting in a decline in demand for our products and could divert the attention of our management, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on our intellectual property. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property, which could hinder our growth and success. We regard our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights as essential to our growth and success. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions with employees and with third parties to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, patents for certain technologies and are currently applying for additional patents. We can offer no assurance that we will succeed in receiving patent and other proprietary protection in all markets we enter, or, if successful, that such protection will be sufficient. If we successfully develop and market our fuel cells or any of our other technologies, we expect to face efforts by larger companies and other organizations or authorities to undermine our patents by challenging or copying our intellectual property. Moreover, intellectual property rights are not protected in certain parts of the world. We intend to vigorously defend our material intellectual property against any challenges that may arise. However, any infringement action initiated by us may be very costly and require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to our operations. Claims by third parties that our technology infringes upon their patents may, if successful, prevent us from further developing or selling our technologies. Although we do not believe our business activities infringe upon the rights of others, nor are we aware of any pending or contemplated actions to such effect, we can give no assurance that our business activities will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. We expect our portable energy sources to compete against other portable fuel cell developers as well as against other advanced battery technologies. Our primary competitors are: · Battery manufacturers who utilize existing battery technologies (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable). Existing battery technologies have the significant advantages of having commercially available products today and are familiar to most consumers, and are backed by companies who are continuously investing in marketing and further research and development. · Companies developing small fuel cells or other alternative power sources for the portable electronics market. We compete with companies such as Mechanical Technology Inc., Poly Fuel, Inc., Angstrom Power, Tekion Inc., Lilliputian Systems, Inc., Neah Power Systems, Inc, iGo, and others. We believe other large cell phone and portable electronic device companies are also developing fuel cells for the portable electronics market. 16 · Companies competing in the emergency kit market, which can provide portable light sources such as flashlights, emergency warnings lights, etc. In the emergency kit end market we compete with companies that offer flashlights, portable lighting and electronics solutions to consumers that value emergency preparedness. The emergency kit market has different products which package radios, flashlights and cell phone chargers that can be powered through solar, self-powered and hand-crank mechanisms. We expect competition to intensify greatly as the need for new energy alternatives becomes more apparent and continues to increase. Many of our competitors are well established and have substantially greater managerial, technical, financial, marketing and product development resources. We cannot give any assurance that current and future competitors will not be more successful in the markets in which we compete, or that we will be successful in such a competitive environment. Our business depends on key members of our management. If we were to lose our senior technical talent or members of senior management, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our fuel cell program depends to a significant extent upon Gennadi Finkelshtain, our Chief Technical Officer, and other scientists, engineers and technicians on our staff. Our success further depends on our highly skilled and experienced management, including Jose Mejia, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Finn, our Executive Vice President and John Giere, our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercialization Officer, as well as certain other officers and employees that develop and market our products and technologies. The loss of the services of Mr. Finkelshtain, or certain of our other technical talent or of Messrs. Mejia, Finn or Giere could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our fuel cell products into successful commercial products or any of our other technologies into commercial products. We possess key-person life insurance of $3,000,000 on Mr. Finkelshtain. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting executive, managerial and technical personnel, and with limited exceptions we have been able to retain key personnel, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not believe that the transition from our former management team to our recently appointed management team has caused any material adverse effect on our business. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we have recorded significant impairment charges related to the goodwill and property, plant and equipment that we carry on our balance sheet, which has significantly increased our losses for the year. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill is subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment. In general, a write down is required if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Upon completion of such assessment for the year ended December 31, 2008, we determined that the entire goodwill balance of $55,993,000 allocated to our fuel cell reporting unit is impaired, and, accordingly, recorded a charge in the amount of $55,993,000, which is included within impairment charges on goodwill and property and equipment in the statement of operations, for the year ended December 31, 2008. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, in the event that any one or combination of factors indicate that there is an impairment of an entity’s long-lived assets, such long lived assets are to be reviewed to determined if their carrying value exceed their fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we reviewed our long-lived assets for impairment and determined that the carrying value of our fuel cell property and equipment exceeded its fair value by approximately $30,508,000 and, accordingly, we recorded a charge in such amount to impairment charges on goodwill and property and equipment in the statement of operations, for the year ended December 31, 2008. 17 Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we will not be required to record additional impairment charges on our assets in the future, especially considering the stage of commercialization of our products and current economic and market conditions. We may be affected by environmental and other governmental regulations. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional and more stringent changes in the future. Our operations may not be in compliance with any such future changes in laws and regulations, which could require us to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. If we fail to comply with any such changes, we may be subject to fines and penalties or we may have existing permits revoked or not subject to renewal. Furthermore, private parties in such circumstances could seek damages from us. Under any of those circumstances, we might be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action or pay substantial damage claims. As we begin to commercialize our 24/7 Power Pack, we and our suppliers expect to be subject to an increasing number of environmental regulations in Israel, Ireland and other jurisdictions where we develop, produce and assemble our products. Some of these regulations may require us and/or our suppliers to apply for and obtain permits prior to any such development, production or assembly, of which we can give no assurance we or they can obtain at minimal cost or at all. In addition, it is possible that industry specific laws and regulations will be adopted in any of these or other jurisdictions covering matters relating to our fuel cell products or our other products. Such laws or regulations could limit the growth of our products or increase our commercialization, manufacturing or distribution costs and, therefore, the price of our products so affected. Accordingly, compliance with existing or future laws and regulations as we begin our commercialization efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for damages resulting from the storage and use of large quantities of chemicals during the manufacturing process of our fuel cell products. The storage and use of large quantities of chemicals used as components of our fuel cells could expose us to the risk that such chemicals may escape into the environment, resulting in damage to natural resources or property, or injury or loss of life. Depending on the nature of the claim, our current insurance policies may not adequately, if at all, reimburse us for costs incurred to litigate or settle any such claims. Our results of operations and capital costs have been and may continue to be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. The principal foreign currencies applicable to our business are the New Israeli Shekel, the Euro and the Swiss Franc. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Recently, the U.S. dollar has been volatile and has declined in relation to these foreign currencies, when compared to historical levels. Foreign currency fluctuations, including a weaker U.S. dollar, have adversely affected our costs, including the costs of the raw materials that make up our fuel cells, and have caused us to reevaluate our pricing structure and seek to increase the prices for our products to maintain projected profitability. Any such increase could negatively impact our sales to distributors or potential customers. Conversely, maintaining our current pricing structure could significantly harm our cash flow and results of operations, as well as our ability to achieve and maintain profitability as we continue to grow our business. 18 We are likely to continue to incur costs related to depreciation, production and facility capacity, including costs related to excess production capacity. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred costs aggregating approximately $28,223,000 with respect to depreciation, production and facility costs, including costs related to capacity in excess of that which we have utilized and materials and components. Unless and until such time as we are able to more fully and efficiently utilize our production facilities through the production and sale of our fuel cell products, we will continue to incur such charges. Risks associated with conducting operations in Israel could materially adversely affect our ability to complete the development of our fuel cell technology or our cell carrier technology. Our research and development facilities, certain manufacturing and semi-automated assembly facility for our 24/7 Power Pack, as well as some of our executive offices and back-office functions, are located in the State of Israel and we have key personnel and their families residing in Israel. We are, therefore, directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country, whether due to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, conflicts with Iran, or America’s war against terrorism, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of any of our fuel cell products, our technologies or our ability to supply our technology to contract manufacturers, development partners, customers or vendors. Furthermore, any interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country in which we have strategic relationships could similarly adversely affect such relationships. In addition, currently all adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 to 50, depending on military rank, unless exempt, are obligated to perform up to an average of 18-28 days, depending on the military rank, of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. We are unable to assess what impact, if any, these factors may have upon our future operations. In addition, historically, Israel has suffered from high inflation and the devaluation of its currency, the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, compared to the U.S. dollar. Future inflation or further devaluations of the NIS may have a negative impact on our NIS-based obligations over time upon substantial price increases caused by inflation. Similarly, a further weakening of the U.S. dollar as against the NIS could continue to raise certain of our costs of operating in Israel. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a judgment against our Israeli officers and directors, making it difficult to bring a successful lawsuit against us, or our officers and directors, individually or in the aggregate. Service of process upon our directors and officers, many of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be collectible within the United States to the extent our assets are located outside the United States. This could limit the ability of our stockholders to sue us based upon an alleged breach of duty or other cause of action. We have been informed by our Israeli legal counsel that it may be difficult to assert U.S. Securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to limitation, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters, obtained after a trial before a court of competent jurisdiction, according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, which enforce similar Israeli judgments, provided that: 19 · due service of process has been effected and the defendant was given a reasonable opportunity to defend; · the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; · such judgments were not obtained by fraud and do not conflict with any other valid judgments in the same manner between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. Foreign judgments enforced by Israeli courts generally will be payable in Israeli currency, which can then be converted into United States dollars and transferred out of Israel. The judgment debtor may also pay in dollars. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. The declining value of stocks, bonds and other investments during the current world economic downturn could require us to write-down the value of our severance pay fund, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under Israeli law, we must provide severance for all our employees in Israel. We fund the severance through monthly deposits in externally managed funds, invested mostly in conservative investments such as government and corporate bonds. In the current capital markets downturn, the value of these assets has declined, and they may lose additional value in the future. These funds are recorded at fair value on our balance sheet. The magnitude of the future potential loss is unpredictable, as it is based on the market value of investments at a future date. If the value of the investments falls, we would be required to write down the value of the severance pay fund asset on our balance sheet. Such a write-down could result in a significant expense on our income statement, materially adversely affecting our results of operations. We do not expect to pay dividends to holders of our common stock and recently have not declared dividends on our preferred stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate declaring any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are required under the certificate of designation relating to our Series A preferred stock to accumulate dividends to holders of our Series A preferred stock at a rate initially equivalent to $725 per share annually. We did not declare the dividend on our preferred stock for the first quarter of 2009 and do not expect to declare the dividend on our preferred stock for the second quarter of 2009. No dividends may be paid upon our common stock unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends have been paid on the Series A preferred stock. Our board presently intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. The issuance of our common stock upon a fundamental change of our Series A preferred stock would have a dilutive effect on the then holders of our common stock. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the certificate of designation of our Series A preferred stock) holders of our Series A preferred stock will have the right to require us to purchase all of their respective shares of our Series A preferred stock. We will have the option to pay for those shares either in cash or in our common stock valued at a discount of 5% from the market price of our common stock. The issuance of our common stock at a discount to the market price of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on the then holders of our common stock. 20 The right of holders to cause us to repurchase shares of our Series A preferred stock upon a fundamental change may be subject to our obligation to repay or repurchase any future indebtedness, such as credit facilities or debt securities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, into the public market, including shares of common stock issued upon exercise of options or warrants or conversion of the Series A preferred stock, or perceptions that those sales and/or conversions could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital in the future. At the present time, we expect that we will require substantial amounts of outside funding to finance our operations. Our stock price has declined significantly since its closing high during 2008 of $15.15 per share and may not rise and may decline further, which could cause our stock to be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. Since its closing high during 2008 of $15.15 per share, our common stock has declined significantly. The last reported closing sale price of our shares on March 27, 2009 was $0.48 per share. Our stock has traded below $1.00 per share since at or around November 17, 2008. Under Nasdaq’s continued listing standards, if the closing bid price of our common stock is under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days or if our market capitalization is less than $75 million, Nasdaq may notify us that it intends to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not thereafter regain compliance for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180-days following notification by Nasdaq, Nasdaq may delist our common stock from trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. While Nasdaq has suspended the minimum bid price and market value requirements until July 20, 2009, there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will extend the suspension or that our common stock will remain eligible for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. If our stock were delisted, the ability of our stockholders to sell any of our common stock at all would be severely, if not completely, limited, causing our stock price to continue to decline. Furthermore, a delisting from Nasdaq could trigger a fundamental change under the Certificate of Designations governing our preferred stock, which would allow the holders of our preferred stock to sell back to us all outstanding shares of our preferred stock. Our issuance of additional common stock or preferred stock may cause our common stock price to decline, which may negatively impact your investment. Issuances of a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue additional series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock or our Series A preferred stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue cumulative preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease. 21 Our stock price has been and could remain volatile and has recently declined substantially. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to extreme price and volume limitations in response to market and other factors. As the price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market constantly changes, it is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock or interest rates will rise or fall. Trading prices of our common stock will be influenced by our operating results and prospects and by economic, financial and other factors. In addition, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally, and sales of substantial amounts of common stock by us in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could affect the price of shares of our common stock. Our investment in Cell Kinetics, our majority owned indirect subsidiary, has a number of risks associated with it. Our investment in Cell Kinetics, our majority owned indirect subsidiary, has a number of risks associated with it, including, among others, the following: · a history of operating losses, with no assurance of future revenues or operating profits; · very limited manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sales capabilities; · competition from both public and private companies and academic collaborators, many of which have significantly greater experience and financial resources; · acceptance by the life sciences research and diagnostic communities is not assured; · commercial development of its CKChip™ technology and proposed product lines is not assured; · an inability to manufacture, market or sell its proposed products if it is unsuccessful in entering into strategic alliances or joint ventures with third parties; and · reliance on the activities of non-employee consultants and research institutions, whose activities are not wholly within its control, may lead to delays in development of its proposed products. Further, Cell Kinetics’ efforts to source, vet and invest in early stage Israeli-based medical device companies give rise to additional risks including, among others: · insufficient cash resources to fund its partner companies or to acquire interests in more than a limited number of partner companies; · management may fail to identify early stage medical device companies in which to acquire interests or to complete these acquisition transactions; · limited experience in actively managing, operating or promoting medical device companies; · partner companies could make business decisions that are not in its best interests or that it does not agree with, which could impair the value of its partner company interests; and · its business strategy may not be successful if valuations in the market sectors in which its partner companies participate decline. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 