Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in the other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $6.3 million and $1.5 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $261.6 million as of March 31, 2012. We may continue to incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to the level of our future revenues and the timing and impact of our cost reduction efforts. While we have made significant progress towards aligning our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses with revenue, given the size of our business relative to the costs associated with being a public reporting company, we will need to continue to control our expenses while maintaining and increasing revenue in order to achieve profitability. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses may continue or increase, which would harm our business and operating results. We do not know the impact of current economic conditions on our customers and our business. The United States and world economies currently face a number of economic challenges, including the availability of credit for businesses and consumers. The financial markets have been dramatically and adversely affected and many companies have been either cutting back expenditures or delaying plans to add additional systems. While there are some indications that companies may be starting to increase capital expenditures, if general economic conditions flatten or decline and cause companies to reduce their capital expenditures, the ability of our customers to pay for or obtain funding to pay for our products and services may be adversely affected, which would then have a significant adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and cash flow and may cause us to sustain further losses. Our business could be seriously harmed as a result of recent management changes or if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our executive management team and other key employees. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies and priorities and the steps necessary to drive our long-term growth and stockholder value. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team or other key personnel could disrupt our operations and seriously harm our business. In addition, certain members of our management team have been with us for a limited period of time: Leonard Rainow, our Chief Operating Officer, Doug Bell, our Chief Commercial Officer, and Kamal Ahluwalia, our Chief Strategy Officer, were appointed in 2011. There can be no assurance that they will be effective in their roles or that they will not take some time before they achieve desired levels of performance. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business and operating results. Our revenues are dependent on orders from a relatively small number of customers. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 33% and 28% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more large customers in any particular period or a large customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. 10 Our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable and subject to fluctuations, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of security analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We generate revenue by providing SaaS solutions through subscription license arrangements and related professional services, as well as through perpetual and term licenses and related software maintenance and professional services. We recognize revenue in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards for software and service companies. We recognize revenue when (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (3) fees are fixed or determinable and (4) collectability is probable. If we determine that any one of the four criteria is not met, we will defer recognition of revenue until all the criteria are met. Our annual and quarterly recurring and non-recurring revenues may fluctuate due to our inability to perform services, achieve specific milestones and obtain formal customer acceptance of specific elements of the overall completion of a project. As we provide such services and products, the timing of delivery and acceptance, changed conditions with the customers and projects could result in changes to the timing of our revenue recognition, and thus, our operating results. Likewise, if our customers do not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew maintenance agreements. Our customers may not renew such maintenance agreements or expand the use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the features of our new products. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or maintenance agreements with us or choose not to purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Because we rely on a limited number of customers, the timing of customer acceptance or milestone achievement, or the amount of services we provide to a single customer can significantly affect our operating results or the failure to replace a significant customer. Because expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could cause our quarterly operating results to fall below anticipated levels. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate based upon our customers’ calendar year budgeting cycles. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results. Our CLM customers license our software in a number of ways including subscription licenses and perpetual licenses, which may be hosted in our third-party hosting center or on the customer’s own facilities. Historically the bulk of our license revenues have come from perpetual licenses which, if revenue recognition requirements are met, are recognized upon execution or release of contingencies, if any. However, more recently with the increase in demand for our SaaS-based subscription CLM solution, during fiscal 2012, we have transitioned our business model to focus on subscription sales and expect this trend to continue. The trend towards our customers shifting to subscription licenses, which include maintenance and may include hosting, will likely continue to affect our short-term financial results since the larger payments associated with perpetual licenses are substituted with smaller but more frequently recurring payments from our customers. Based upon the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In some future period, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or a decline in the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on our proprietary intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property from potential competitors, our business may be significantly harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. We currently hold five patents in the United States. In addition, we have various trademarks registered or pending registration in various jurisdictions. Our trademark applications might not result in the issuance of any trademarks. Our patents or any future issued trademarks might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We seek to protect the source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to license agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation may require us to incur significant legal expenses and management time. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 11 In addition, we have previously been subject to claims of third parties that our products and services infringe their intellectual property rights. For example, in October 2007 we agreed to settle a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Versata Enterprises, Inc. and a related party for a $10 million payment in October 2007 and an additional amount of not more than $7.5 million, which we paid in full in fiscal 2012. It is possible that in the future, other third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time from developing our business, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. Our lengthy sales cycle for our products makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and exacerbates the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The sales cycle of our products has historically averaged between nine to twelve months, and may sometimes be significantly longer. We are generally required to provide a significant level of education regarding the use and benefits of our products, and potential customers tend to engage in extensive internal reviews before making purchase decisions. In addition, the purchase of our products typically involves a significant commitment by our customers of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond our control, such as customers’ internal budgetary procedures and the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations. In addition, because we target large companies, our sales cycle can be lengthier due to the decision process in large organizations. As a result of our products’ long sales cycles, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could fall below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. With the transition of our focus to a subscription sales SaaS model, we expect to shorten our sales cycle and reduce the impact of delays in customer sales in any particular quarter. However, until we complete the transition of our business model to a SaaS-based model, the effects of delays in any particular customer sale may cause a significant impact on our operating results. Developments in the market for cloud-based software solutions, including our CLM and Guided Selling solutions, may harm our operating results, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The market for cloud-based software solutions, including CLM and Guided Selling solutions, is evolving rapidly. In view of changing market trends, including vendor consolidation, the competitive environment growth rate and potential size of the market are difficult to assess. The growth of the market is dependent upon the willingness of businesses and consumers to purchase complex goods and services over the Internet and the acceptance of the Internet as a platform for business applications. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of Internet selling may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach or application that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. With the transition of our focus to a subscription sales SaaS model which may help address certain market challenges, the rapid change in the marketplace nonetheless poses a number of concerns. Any decrease in technology infrastructure spending may reduce the size of the market for our solutions. Our potential customers may decide to purchase more complete solutions offered by larger competitors instead of individual applications. If the market for our solutions is slow to develop, or if our customers purchase more fully integrated products, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. We face intense competition, which could reduce our sales, prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability and inhibit our future growth. The market for software and services that enable electronic commerce is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our principal competition comes from (i) publicly held and private software companies that offer integrated solutions or specific contract management and/or sales configuration solutions and (ii) internally developed solutions. Existing and potential competitors include public companies such as Oracle Corporation, Ariba, Open Text and SAP, as well as privately held companies such as Upside Software, Emptoris and Big Machines. 12 Our competitors may intensify their efforts in our market. In addition, other enterprise software and SaaS companies may offer competitive products in the future. Competitors vary in size, in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors including the comprehensiveness of our solution, our use of Java and mobile technology and our multi-threaded architecture, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • preferred vendor status with our customers; • more extensive name recognition and marketing power; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Our competitors may also bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties, or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce the prices of our products and services. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases, and we are unable to respond effectively. If we do not keep pace with technological change, including maintaining interoperability of our products with the software and hardware platforms predominantly used by our customers, our products may be rendered obsolete, and our business may fail. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards. In order to achieve broad customer acceptance, our products must be compatible with major software and hardware platforms used by our customers. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with electronic commerce applications and databases. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these operating systems, applications and databases. Our configuration, pricing and quoting products are complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system, electronic commerce application or database, our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing software could lead to new competitive products that have better performance or lower prices than our products and could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Our failure to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business and operating results. In the past, a small number of our customers have experienced difficulties or delays in completing implementation of our products. We may experience similar difficulties or delays in the future. Deploying our products typically involves integration with our customers’ legacy systems, such as existing databases and enterprise resource planning software as well adding their data to the system. Failing to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, time-consuming deployments may also increase the amount of service personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business and operating result. If we are unable to maintain our direct sales force, sales of our products and services may not meet our expectations, and our business and operating results will be significantly harmed. We depend on our direct sales force for a significant portion of our current sales, and our future growth depends in part on the ability of our direct sales force to develop customer relationships and increase sales to a level that will allow us to reach and maintain profitability. If we are unable to retain qualified sales personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or to reach productivity when anticipated, we may not be able to increase sales of our products and services, and our results of operation could be significantly harmed. If we are unable to manage our professional services organization, we will be unable to provide our customers with technical support for our products, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Non-recurring revenues are comprised of perpetual license sales and revenues from professional services for system implementations, enhancements, and training. Professional services generated 34% and 29% of our total revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our professional services revenues have lower gross margins than license revenues and recurring revenues. We generally charge for our professional services on a time and materials basis rather than on a fixed-fee basis. To the extent that customers are unwilling to utilize third-party consultants or require us to provide professional services on a fixed-fee basis, our cost of services revenues could increase and could cause us to recognize a loss on a specific contract, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. If we do not properly manage our costs of professional services, we could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to provide these professional services, we may lose sales or incur customer dissatisfaction, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. 13 If new versions and releases of our products contain errors or defects, we could suffer losses and negative publicity, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, including errors relating to security, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and provided product updates to our customers to address such defects. Our products and other future products may contain defects or errors that could result in lost revenues, a delay in market acceptance or negative publicity, each which would significantly harm our business and operating results. Demand for our products and services will decline significantly if our software cannot support and manage a substantial number of users. Our strategy requires that our products be highly scalable. To date, only a limited number of our customers have deployed our products on a large scale. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale deployments, or if they determine that we cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. If we become subject to product liability litigation, it could be costly and time consuming to defend and could distract us from focusing on our business and operations. Since our products are company-wide, mission-critical computer applications with a potentially strong impact on our customers’ sales, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Although our license agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Our results of operations will be reduced by charges associated with stock-based compensation, accelerated vesting associated with stock options issued to employees, charges associated with other securities issued by us, and charges related to variable accounting. We have in the past and expect in the future to incur a significant amount of charges related to securities issuances, which will negatively affect our operating results. We adopted the provisions of ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation (ASC 718), using a modified prospective application. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of our share-based payments and recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. This pronouncement from the FASB provides for certain changes to the method for valuing stock-based compensation. Among other changes, ASC 718 applies to new awards and to awards that are outstanding which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Compensation expense calculated under ASC 718 will continue to negatively impact our operating results. Failure to improve and maintain relationships with systems integrators and consulting firms, which assist us with the sale and installation of our products, would impede the acceptance of our products and the growth of our revenues. Our strategy has been to rely in part upon systems integrators and consulting firms to recommend our products to their customers and to install and deploy our products. To date, we have had limited success in utilizing these firms as a sales channel or as a provider of professional services. To increase our revenues and implementation capabilities, we must continue to develop and expand our relationships with these systems integrators and consulting firms. If these systems integrators and consulting firms are unwilling to install and deploy our products, we may not have the resources to provide adequate implementation services to our customers, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. 14 Some of our customers are hosted by a third-party provider. Some of our CLM customers’ licenses are hosted by a third-party data center provider under contract to us. Failure of the data center provider to maintain service levels as contracted could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer losses and potential product warranty or performance liabilities. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of our company. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights agreement, as amended to date, may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without approval of our directors. These provisions include: • requiring a majority vote in uncontested elections of directors; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • issuing shareholders rights to purchase additional shares of stock in the event that any person, together with its affiliates and associates, (i) acquires beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) commences a tender offer for our shares if upon consummation of the tender offer such person would beneficially own 4.99% or more of the outstanding common stock, subject, in each case, to certain exceptions. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares. Compliance with new regulations dealing with corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and require significant management attention. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs and causing some management and accounting activities to become more time-consuming and costly. This includes increased levels of documentation, monitoring internal controls, and increased manpower and use of consultants to comply. We have and will continue to expend significant efforts and resources to comply with these rules and regulations and have implemented a comprehensive program of compliance with these requirements and high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. These rules may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and may make us accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs for such coverage. The rules and regulations may also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee. Restrictions on export of encrypted technology could cause us to incur delays in international product sales, which would adversely impact the expansion and growth of our business. Our software utilizes encryption technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States adopts new legislation restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may experience delay or reduction in shipment of our products internationally. Current or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our products outside of the United States. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. 15 Unauthorized break-ins or other assaults on our computer systems could harm our business. Our servers are vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of data or public release of proprietary information. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. These and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort may be very expensive to remedy and could adversely affect results of operations. Changes to accounting standards and financial reporting requirements or tax laws, may affect our financial results. We are required to follow accounting and financial reporting standards set by governing bodies in the U.S. and other countries where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies implement new and revised laws and regulations. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and tax laws may require changes to accounting principles used in preparing our financial statements. These changes may have a material impact on our business and financial results. For example, a change in accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change became effective. As a result, changes to existing rules or reconsideration of current practices caused by such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could limit the market for our products and services, or impose greater tax burdens on us or liability for transmission of protected data. As electronic commerce and the Internet continue to evolve, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations covering issues such as user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for electronic commerce, and therefore the market for our products and services. Although many of these regulations may not apply directly to our business, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 