Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, and in the other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K . Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings. We have a history of significant losses and may incur significant losses in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $8.4 million and $23.9 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $249.2 million as of March 31, 2009. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to the level of our future revenues and the timing and impact of our cost reduction efforts. We plan to continue to pursue opportunities to align research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars over the next year in order to better balance expense levels with projected revenues, including potentially voluntarily delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market and deregistering under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). We will need to generate significant increases in our revenues to achieve and maintain profitability, particularly given the current small size of our business relative to the costs associated with being a public reporting company. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses will significantly increase which would significantly harm our business and operating results. We do not know the impact of current economic conditions on our customers and our business. The United States and world economies currently face a number of economic challenges, including the availability of credit for businesses and consumers. The financial markets have been dramatically and adversely affected and many companies are either cutting back expenditures or delaying plans to add additional personnel or systems. If these conditions continue or worsen, the ability of our customers to pay for or obtain funding to pay for our products and services may be adversely affected which would then have a significant adverse impact on our ability to generate revenues and cash flow and may cause us to sustain further losses. We are increasingly dependent on our CM business. For the first time in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, revenues from our CM business exceeded revenues from our SC business. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on our CM business and our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to successfully grow our CM business in the future. Our business could be seriously harmed as a result of recent management changes or if we lose the services of our key personnel. We currently do not have a chief executive officer. We have recently experienced a number of management changes, including the recent appointment of Jason Stern as our Senior Vice President, Operations for Contract Management on June 10, 2009. All members of our 10 Table of Contents management team have been with us for a limited period of time. There can be no assurance that they will be effective in their roles or that they will not take some time before they achieve desired levels of performance. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team could seriously harm our business. We currently do not have a chief executive officer, which could harm our business, and anticipate hiring a chief executive officer later in the year. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring a chief executive officer or that any chief executive officer we hire will not take some time to achieve desired levels of performance. Our recent restructuring of our business may adversely impact our business and operating results. We recently restructured our business to better align expenses with revenues and position our business for improved operating performance in the future. As part of the restructuring, we reduced our headcount from 64 at March 31, 2009 to 56 as of June 15, 2009. We expect to record charges of at least $500,000 during the six months ending September 30, 2009, primarily for facilities, severance and related benefits for terminated employees. The restructuring has placed increased demands on our personnel and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent, to develop and enhance our products and services, to service existing customers, to achieve our sales and marketing objectives and to perform our accounting, finance and administrative functions, particularly given that we operating two separate businesses with relatively limited overlap between their sales and marketing, customer service and product development teams. The occurrence of any of these adverse affects could materially harm our business. We may be subject to a number of risks if we do not maintain effective corporate governance policies and procedures. We have undertaken a review of our corporate governance policies and procedures. We undertook the review, among other reasons, (i) after determining that it was appropriate to reconsider the legal status of our management structure, (ii) in response to a letter from counsel from a stockholder with whom we are currently in litigation, who expressed concerns regarding our internal controls and requesting that we investigate those concerns, and (iii) to assess our internal controls regarding our accounting for non-routine transactions. As part of the review, our Board of Directors formed a special committee, assisted by independent counsel, to investigate the concerns raised in the letter from our stockholder’s counsel. As a result of the review, we have adopted and are in the process of implementing a number of changes designed to enhance the effectiveness of our corporate governance. We cannot assure that these changes, when implemented, will ensure that our internal controls and procedures will be effective to prevent fraud or other errors in the future. For more information about the review, including additional background on the reasons for the review and the changes to our corporate governance policies and procedures resulting from the review, please see Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” The internal review, including the independent investigation and related activities, has required us to incur substantial expenses, primarily for legal services, and have diverted management’s attention and time from our business. In addition, any failure to maintain effective corporate governance policies and procedures may have caused or could cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting requirements, result in material misstatements or omissions in our financial statements and reports and other documents filed with the SEC, subject us to liability for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and result in private litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions. The resolution of any such matters, should they arise, may be time consuming and expensive and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2009. As a result, we may be subject to a number of risks, including increased risks that we have or may not file our financial statements and related reports with the SEC on a timely basis and that there are errors in our reported financial statements and material misstatements in our reports and other documents filed with the SEC. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of these controls in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009, including the information made available to management regarding the results of our review of our corporate governance policies and procedures, our management identified several control deficiencies and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that, when considered in the aggregate, represent a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009. As a result, our management determined that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2009. For a description of these significant deficiencies and additional information about management’s evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, please see Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” As part of the changes to our corporate governance policies and procedures described above, we have adopted and are in the process of implementing a number of measures designed to remediate the control deficiencies and significant deficiencies identified during our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to remediate the deficiencies identified in our evaluation or that we will not identify additional deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. The absence of effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures increases the risk that we have not, or may in the future not, file our financial statements and related reports with the SEC on a timely basis, that there may be errors in our financial statements or material misstatements or omissions in our related reports and documents filed with the SEC. The occurrence of any of these events could expose us to private litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions and undermine investor confidence in our reported financial information. The resolution of any such matters, should they arise, may be time consuming and expensive and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business and operating results. Our revenues are dependent on orders from a relatively small number of customers. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 33% and 45% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more large customers in any particular period or a large customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, many of our orders are realized at the end of the quarter. As a result of this concentration and timing, our quarterly operating results, including average selling prices, may fluctuate significantly if we are unable to complete one or more substantial sales in any given quarter. 12 Table of Contents Our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable and subject to fluctuations, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of security analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We enter into arrangements for the sale of: (1) licenses of software products and related maintenance contracts; (2) services; (3) subscription for on-demand services; and (4) bundled license, maintenance, and services. In instances where maintenance is bundled with a license of software products, the maintenance term is typically one year. For each arrangement, we determine whether evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. If any of these criteria are not met, revenue recognition is deferred until such time as all of the criteria are met. Our annual and quarterly revenues may fluctuate due to our inability to perform services, achieve specific milestones and obtain formal customer acceptance of specific elements of the overall completion of a project. As we provide such services and products, the timing of delivery and acceptance, changed conditions with the customers and projects could result in changes to the timing of our revenue recognition, and thus, our operating results. Likewise, if our customers do not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew maintenance agreements. Our customers may not renew such maintenance agreements or expand the use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the features of our new products. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or maintenance agreements with us or choose not to purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Because we rely on a limited number of customers, the timing of customer acceptance or milestone achievement, or the amount of services we provide to a single customer can significantly affect our operating results or the failure to replace a significant customer. Because expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could cause our quarterly operating results to fall below anticipated levels. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate based upon our customers’ calendar year budgeting cycles. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results. Our Contract Management customers license our software in a number of ways including perpetual licenses and subscriptions, which may be hosted in our third-party hosting center or on the customer’s own facilities. Historically the bulk of our license revenues have come from perpetual licenses which, if revenue recognition requirements are met, are recognized upon execution or release of contingencies, if any. Any trend towards our customers shifting to subscription licenses, which include maintenance and may include hosting, may affect our short-term financial results. Based upon the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In some future period, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or a decline in the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on our proprietary intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property from potential competitors, our business may be significantly harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. We currently hold six patents and five pending patents in the United States. In addition, we have various trademarks registered or pending registration in various jurisdictions. Our trademark and patent 13 Table of Contents applications might not result in the issuance of any trademarks or patents. Our patents or any future issued trademarks might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We seek to protect the source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to license agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation may require us to incur significant legal expenses and management time. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, we have in the past been subject to claims of third parties that our products and services infringe their intellectual property rights. For example, in October 2007 we agreed to settle a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Versata Enterprises, Inc. and a related party for a $10 million payment in October 2007 and an additional amount of not more than $7.5 million in quarterly payments. It is possible that in the future, other third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time from developing our business, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. Our lengthy sales cycle for our products makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and exacerbates the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The sales cycle of our products has historically averaged between nine to twelve months, and may sometimes be significantly longer. We are generally required to provide a significant level of education regarding the use and benefits of our products, and potential customers tend to engage in extensive internal reviews before making purchase decisions. In addition, the purchase of our products typically involves a significant commitment by our customers of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond our control, such as customers’ internal budgetary procedures and the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations. In addition, because we target large companies, our sales cycle can be lengthier due to the decision process in large organizations. As a result of our products’ long sales cycles, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could fall below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Developments in the market for enterprise software, including our CM and SC solutions, may harm our operating results, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The market for enterprise software, including CM and SC solutions, is evolving rapidly. In view of changing market trends, including vendor consolidation, the competitive environment growth rate and potential size of the market are difficult to assess. The growth of the market is dependent upon the willingness of businesses and consumers to purchase complex goods and services over the Internet and the acceptance of the Internet as a platform for business applications. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of Internet selling may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach or application that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. 14 Table of Contents The rapid change in the marketplace poses a number of concerns. Any decrease in technology infrastructure spending may reduce the size of the market for contract management and sales configuration solutions. Our potential customers may decide to purchase more complete solutions offered by larger competitors instead of individual applications. If the market for contract management and sales configuration solutions is slow to develop, or if our customers purchase more fully integrated products, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. We face intense competition, which could reduce our sales, prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability and inhibit our future growth. The market for software and services that enable electronic commerce is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our principal competition comes from (i) publicly-held and private software companies that offer integrated solutions or specific contract management and/or sales configuration solutions and (ii) internally-developed solutions. Existing and potential competitors include public companies such as Oracle Corporation, Ariba, Open Text and AT&T (through its acquisition of Comergent Technologies) as well as privately held companies such as Upside Software, I-Many, Emptoris and Trilogy/Versata (through its acquisition of Nextance). Our competitors may intensify their efforts in our market. In addition, other enterprise software companies may offer competitive products in the future. Competitors vary in size, in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors including the comprehensiveness of our solution, our use of Java technology and our multi-threaded architecture, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • preferred vendor status with our customers; • more extensive name recognition and marketing power; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Our competitors may also bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties, or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce the prices of our products and services. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases, and we are unable to respond effectively. If we do not keep pace with technological change, including maintaining interoperability of our products with the software and hardware platforms predominantly used by our customers, our products may be rendered obsolete, and our business may fail. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards. In order to achieve broad customer acceptance, our products must be compatible with major software and hardware platforms used by our customers. Our products currently operate on the Microsoft Windows NT, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, J2EE, Linux and Microsoft Windows 2000 Operating Systems. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with electronic commerce applications and databases. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these operating systems, applications and databases. Our configuration, pricing and quoting products are complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system, electronic commerce application or database, our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, the development of 15 Table of Contents entirely new technologies to replace existing software could lead to new competitive products that have better performance or lower prices than our products and could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Our failure to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business and operating results. In the past, a small number of our customers have experienced difficulties or delays in completing implementation of our products. We may experience similar difficulties or delays in the future. Deploying our products typically involves integration with our customers’ legacy systems, such as existing databases and enterprise resource planning software as well adding their data to the system. Failing to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, time-consuming deployments may also increase the amount of service personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business and operating result. If we are unable to maintain our direct sales force, sales of our products and services may not meet our expectations, and our business and operating results will be significantly harmed. We depend on our direct sales force for a significant portion of our current sales, and our future growth depends in part on the ability of our direct sales force to develop customer relationships and increase sales to a level that will allow us to reach and maintain profitability. If we are unable to retain qualified sales personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or to reach productivity when anticipated, we may not be able to increase sales of our products and services, and our results of operation could be significantly harmed. If we are unable to manage our professional services organization, we will be unable to provide our customers with technical support for our products, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Services revenues, which generated 78% and 71% of our total revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are comprised primarily of revenues from consulting fees, maintenance contracts and training and are important to our business. Services revenues have lower gross margins than license revenues. We generally charge for our professional services on a time and materials rather than a fixed-fee basis. To the extent that customers are unwilling to utilize third-party consultants or require us to provide professional services on a fixed-fee basis, our cost of services revenues could increase and could cause us to recognize a loss on a specific contract, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. If we do not properly manage our costs of professional services, we could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to provide these professional services, we may lose sales or incur customer dissatisfaction, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. If new versions and releases of our products contain errors or defects, we could suffer losses and negative publicity, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, including errors relating to security, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and provided product updates to our customers to address such defects. Our products and other future products may contain defects or errors that could result in lost revenues, a delay in market acceptance or negative publicity, each which would significantly harm our business and operating results. Demand for our products and services will decline significantly if our software cannot support and manage a substantial number of users. Our strategy requires that our products be highly scalable. To date, only a limited number of our customers have deployed our products on a large scale. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale 16 Table of Contents deployments, or if they determine that we cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. If we become subject to product liability litigation, it could be costly and time consuming to defend and could distract us from focusing on our business and operations. Since our products are company-wide, mission-critical computer applications with a potentially strong impact on our customers’ sales, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Although our license agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Our results of operations will be reduced by charges associated with stock-based compensation, accelerated vesting associated with stock options issued to employees, charges associated with other securities issued by us, and charges related to variable accounting. We have in the past and expect in the future to incur a significant amount of charges related to securities issuances, which will negatively affect our operating results. We adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R using a modified prospective application effective April 1, 2006. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of our share-based payments and recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. This pronouncement from the FASB provides for certain changes to the method for valuing stock-based compensation. Among other changes, SFAS 123R applies to new awards and to awards that are outstanding which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Compensation expense calculated under SFAS 123R will continue to negatively impact our operating results. Failure to improve and maintain relationships with systems integrators and consulting firms, which assist us with the sale and installation of our products, would impede the acceptance of our products and the growth of our revenues. Our strategy has been to rely in part upon systems integrators and consulting firms to recommend our products to their customers and to install and deploy our products. To date, we have had limited success in utilizing these firms as a sales channel or as a provider of professional services. To increase our revenues and implementation capabilities, we must continue to develop and expand our relationships with these systems integrators and consulting firms. If these systems integrators and consulting firms are unwilling to install and deploy our products, we may not have the resources to provide adequate implementation services to our customers, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. Some of our customers are hosted by a third-party provider. Some of our CM customers’ licenses are hosted by a third-party data center provider under contract to us. Failure of the data center provider to maintain service levels as contracted could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer losses and potential product warranty or performance liabilities. Our ongoing litigation with Trilogy, Inc. relating to our Rights Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. On December 22, 2008, we filed suit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Trilogy, Inc. and certain related parties (“Trilogy”) seeking declaratory relief that our Rights Agreement as amended on November 16, 2008 was an appropriate measure to protect a valuable asset of ours—our net operating loss carryforwards and related tax credits—from being limited as to utilization as provided under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) which could in turn substantially reduce their value to all of our shareholders. We sued Trilogy on December 22, 2008 after (i) we amended our Rights Agreement on November 16, 2008 to reduce 17 Table of Contents the ownership threshold from 15% to 4.99%, with existing 5% or greater shareholders limited to acquiring no more than an additional 0.5% and, (ii) despite the ownership threshold, Trilogy increased its beneficial ownership by 0.51% to 6.71% as announced in its 13(d) filing with the SEC on December 22, 2008. As a result, on January 2, 2009, a special committee of our Board of Directors declared Trilogy as an “Acquiring Person” under the Rights Agreement, and on February 4, 2009 we completed the distribution of 26.8 million shares to all existing shareholders (under the Exchange Provision in the Rights Agreement) other than Trilogy. On January 16, 2009, the defendants in this action, Trilogy, filed an answer to our complaint and a counterclaim alleging that we, through our Board of Directors, had breached our fiduciary duty in amending the Rights Agreement and that such action favored one group of shareholders over another. We, and our Board of Directors, believe that the action taken on November 16, 2008 was appropriate under the circumstances and in the interest of all our shareholders and therefore the allegations of the counterclaim are without merit. The counterclaim asks for various measures of equitable relief and also includes a claim for punitive or exemplary damages, which are not available in Delaware. The litigation is currently in the post-trial phase with a decision expected in the third or fourth calendar quarter of 2009, subject to appeal. As the costs of this litigation and related legal work are directly related to the issuance of shares under our rights plan, the costs of the litigation have been charged as issuance costs against the additional paid in capital account on our balance sheet, less a reserve for anticipated recovery from our Director’s and Officer’s insurance policy, which is reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2009, the amount charged to additional paid in capital was approximately $2.0 million, and the anticipated recovery from our insurance policy was approximately $1.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in our current litigation with Trilogy. In the event that we are not successful in that litigation and Trilogy or any other investor substantially increases its ownership of our common stock, our ability to use our NOLs could be substantially and irrevocably limited by application of the restrictions of Section 382 of the IRC. We could also incur significant costs if the Court orders us to distribute additional shares or undertake other measures to remediate our actions taken against Trilogy. Moreover, even if we are successful, the resolution of the litigation has been expensive, time consuming and distracted management from the conduct of our business. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of our company. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Delaware law and the stockholder rights agreement adopted by us on February 4, 2003, as subsequently amended and restated on January 2, 2009, may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without approval of our directors. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • issuing shareholders rights to purchase additional shares of stock in the event that any person, together with its affiliates and associates, (i) acquires beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) commences a tender offer for our shares if upon consummation of the tender offer such person would beneficially own 4.99% or more of the outstanding common stock, subject, in each case, to certain exceptions. 18 Table of Contents These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares. See the immediately preceding risk factor and Item 1, “Legal Proceedings,” of Part II of this report. Compliance with new regulations dealing with corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and require significant management attention. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs and causing some management and accounting activities to become more time-consuming and costly. This includes increased levels of documentation, monitoring internal controls, and increased manpower and use of consultants to comply. We have and will continue to expend significant efforts and resources to comply with these rules and regulations and have implemented a comprehensive program of compliance with these requirements and high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. We are currently not compliant with NASDAQ listing requirements given that the bid price of our stock is and has been under $1.00 per share for a period exceeding 180 days. However, given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the applicability of this listing requirement and we have not been notified of any delisting action by NASDAQ. The $1.00 bid price minimum will be reinstated on July 20, 2009 and NASDAQ has not indicated any further suspension of the requirement beyond that date. There cannot be any assurance that any action will be taken by NASDAQ or that our stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Such action may make trading in our stock more difficult for investors and impair the liquidity of the stock. These rules may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and may make us accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs for such coverage. The rules and regulations may also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee. Restrictions on export of encrypted technology could cause us to incur delays in international product sales, which would adversely impact the expansion and growth of our business. Our software utilizes encryption technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States adopts new legislation restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may experience delay or reduction in shipment of our products internationally. Current or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our products outside of the United States. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. Unauthorized break-ins or other assaults on our computer systems could harm our business. Our servers are vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of data or public release of proprietary information. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. These and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort may be very expensive to remedy and could adversely affect results of operations. Changes to accounting standards and financial reporting requirements or tax laws, may affect our financial results. We are required to follow accounting and financial reporting standards set by governing bodies in the U.S. and other countries where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies implement new and revised 19 Table of Contents laws and regulations. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and tax laws may require changes to accounting principles used in preparing our financial statements. These changes may have a material impact on our business and financial results. For example, a change in accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change became effective. As a result, changes to existing rules or reconsideration of current practices caused by such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could limit the market for our products and services, or impose greater tax burdens on us or liability for transmission of protected data. As electronic commerce and the Internet continue to evolve, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations covering issues such as user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for electronic commerce, and therefore the market for our products and services. Although many of these regulations may not apply directly to our business, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 