Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-K . Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings. The matters related to the review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see Part I, Item 3- “Legal Proceedings” as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. We have provided the results of our internal review and investigation of our stock option practices to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and we have responded to informal requests for documents and additional information from the SEC. We intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC and any other governmental agency which may become involved in this matter. We cannot give any assurance regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or not reported, the corresponding financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. In November 2006, we received a Staff Determination letter from The NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ”) stating that, as a result of the failure to timely file quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 (the “Second Quarter Form 10-Q”), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from NASDAQ. In February 2007, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted our request for continued listing, provided that we file a response with NASDAQ to specific requests for information from NASDAQ related to our stock option granting practices review as well as the Second Quarter Form 10-Q, the Third Quarter Form 10-Q and any required restatements with the SEC on or before May 9, 2007. In March 2007, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Listing and Hearings Review Council (the “Review Council”), which advised us that any delisting determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel had been stayed pending further review by the Review Council. The Review Council notified us in July 2007 that we were granted an exception to demonstrate compliance with all of the NASDAQ Stock Market continued listing requirements until their next meeting on October 5, 2007. On September 5, 2007, we filed with NASDAQ a response to specific requests for information from NASDAQ related to our stock option granting practices review. In addition, immediately before the filing of this 2007 Form 10-K, we filed our Second Quarter Form 10-Q and the Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. We consider that the filing of these materials has remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification to us accordingly. However, if NASDAQ disagrees with our position or if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports or other actions that might result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. 8 Table of Contents We have a history of significant losses and may incur significant losses in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $ 20.9 million $17.6 million and $15.0 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $217 million as of March 31, 2007. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons. We continue to pursue opportunities to align research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars over the next year in order to better balance expense levels with projected revenues. We will need to generate significant increases in our revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses will significantly increase which would significantly harm our business and operating results. We have been subject to intellectual property litigation, and could be subject to additional such litigation in the future, in connection with which we may incur substantial costs, which would harm our operating results. On October 20, 2006, Versata Software, Inc., formerly known as Trilogy Software Inc., and a related party (collectively, “Versata”) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, alleging that the Company has been and is willfully infringing, directly and indirectly, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,515,524, 5,708,798 and 6,002,854 (collectively, the “Versata Patents”) by making, using, licensing, selling, offering for sale, or importing configuration software and related services. The complaint seeks money damages with pre- and post-judgment interest, costs, treble damages for willful infringement, attorneys’ fees and a permanent injunction to prevent the Company from infringing the Versata Patents in the future, as well as any other relief to which Versata may be entitled. The Company has filed an answer denying infringement and has alleged that the Versata Patents are invalid and unenforceable. The parties have not yet begun discovery in the case, and the Company is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation. In addition, from time to time, we have received (and may receive in the future) correspondence from patent holders (including our competitors) recommending that we license their patents. We review and evaluate these patents (in light of the allegations from the patent holders). To date, we have informed these patent holders that it would not be necessary to license these patents. However, we may be required to license such patents or incur legal fees to defend our position that such licenses are not necessary (as was the case in the Trilogy litigation), and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license to use such patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any intellectual property litigation, such as the litigation with Versata, or any threat of such litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the asserted intellectual property; • obtain from the holder of the asserted intellectual property right a license to sublicense or use the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • redesign those products or services that incorporate such intellectual property; • pay money damages to the holder of any infringed intellectual property right. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we could be liable for a large damage award and our failure or inability to license the infringed intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms (or at all) or license a substitute intellectual property or redesign our product to avoid infringement, could significantly harm our business and operating results. If we are forced to abandon use of our trademark, we may be forced to change our name and incur substantial expenses to build a new brand, which would significantly harm our business. Our future success depends on our proprietary intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property from potential competitors, our business may be significantly harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. We currently hold six patents in the United States. In addition, we have two trademarks registered in the United States, one trademark registered and one pending in South Korea, two trademarks registered in Canada and one trademark registered in European Community, and we have also applied to 9 Table of Contents register another two trademarks in the United States. Our trademark applications might not result in the issuance of any trademarks. Our patents or any future issued trademarks might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We seek to protect the source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to license agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation may require us to incur significant legal expenses and management time. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our new business strategy is unsuccessful, it could significantly harm our business and operating results. We have broadened our business focus to include Contract Lifecycle Management with the purchase of Determine Software in May 2005. If the market for CLM products is smaller than we anticipated or if our products fail to gain widespread acceptance in this market, our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, if there is a delay in bringing our new products to market, it would delay our ability to derive revenues from such products and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable and subject to fluctuations, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of security analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues may vary as a result of fluctuations in demand, sales cycles, changes in the mix of products and average sales prices. We enter into arrangements for the sale of: (1) licenses of software products and related maintenance contracts; (2) bundled license, maintenance, and services; (3) services; and (4) subscription for on-demand services. In instances where maintenance is bundled with a license of software products, such maintenance term is typically one year. For each arrangement, we determine whether evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. If any of these criteria are not met, revenue recognition is deferred until such time as all of the criteria are met. The portion of revenues recognized on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, and revenues in any given quarter are a function both of contracts signed in such quarter and contracts signed in prior quarters. Our quarterly revenues may also fluctuate due to our ability to perform services, achieve specific milestones and obtain formal customer acceptance of specific elements of the overall completion of a project. As we provide such services and products, the timing of delivery and acceptance, changed conditions with the customers and projects could result in changes to the timing of our revenue recognition, and thus, our operating results. Likewise, if our customers do not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew maintenance agreements. Our customers may not renew such maintenance agreements or expand the use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the features of our new products. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or maintenance agreements with us or choose not to purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Because we rely on a limited number of customers, the timing of customer acceptance or milestone achievement, or the amount of services we provide to a single customer can significantly affect our operating results or the failure to replace a significant customer. Because expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could cause our quarterly operating results to fall below anticipated levels. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our quarterly results may fluctuate based upon our customers’ calendar year budgeting cycles. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Based upon the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In some future quarter, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or a decline in the price of our common stock. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business and operating results. Our revenues are dependent on orders from a relatively small number of customers. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 61%, 67% and 67% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 75%, 80% and 84% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more customers in any particular period or a large customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, many of our orders are realized at the end of the quarter. As a result of this concentration and timing, our quarterly operating results, including average selling prices, may fluctuate significantly if we are unable to complete one or more substantial sales in any given quarter. Our lengthy sales cycle for our large enterprise products makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and exacerbates the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The sales cycle of our large enterprise SE products has historically averaged between nine to twelve months, and may sometimes be significantly longer. We are generally required to provide a significant level of education regarding the use and benefits of our products, and potential customers tend to engage in extensive internal reviews before making purchase decisions. In addition, the purchase of our products is discretionary and typically involves a significant commitment by our customers of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond our control, such as customers’ internal budgetary procedures and the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations. In addition, because we target large companies, our sales cycle can be lengthier due to the decision process in large organizations. As a result of our products’ long sales cycles, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could fall below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Developments in the market for enterprise software including configuration, pricing, contract management and quoting solutions may harm our operating results, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The market for enterprise software including configuration, pricing, contract management and quoting solutions is evolving rapidly. In view of changing market trends, including vendor consolidation, the competitive environment gross rate and potential size of the market are difficult to assess. The growth of the market is dependent upon the willingness of businesses and consumers to purchase complex goods and services over the Internet and the acceptance of the Internet as a platform for business applications. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of Internet selling may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach or application that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. The rapid change in the marketplace poses a number of concerns. The decrease in technology infrastructure spending may reduce the size of the market for configuration, pricing management and quoting solutions. Our potential customers may decide to purchase more complete solutions offered by larger competitors instead of individual applications. If the market for configuration, pricing management, contract management and quoting solutions is slow to develop, or if our customers purchase more fully integrated products, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. We face intense competition, which could reduce our sales, prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability and inhibit our future growth. The market for software and services that enable electronic commerce is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our principal competitors include publicly-traded companies such as Oracle, Ariba, I-Many and AT&T (through its acquisition of Comergent Technologies), as well as privately held companies such as Upside Software, Nextance, Emptoris and Versata, all of which offer integrated solutions for electronic commerce incorporating some of the functionality of our configuration, pricing, contract management and/or quoting software. 11 Table of Contents Our competitors may intensify their efforts in our market. In addition, other enterprise software companies may offer competitive products in the future. Competitors vary in size, in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors, including the comprehensiveness of our solution, our use of Java technology and our multi-threaded architecture, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • preferred vendor status with our customers; • more extensive name recognition and marketing power; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Our competitors may also bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties, or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce the prices of our products and services. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases, and we are unable to respond effectively. A decline in general economic conditions or a decrease in information technology spending could harm our results of operations. Our business is dependant on the overall demand for enterprise software and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. A change in economic conditions could lead to revised budgetary constraints regarding information technology spending for our customers. We have had potential customers select our software, but decide to delay or not to implement any configuration system. Many companies have decided to reduce their expenditures for information technology by either delaying non-mission critical projects or abandoning them until their levels of business justify the expenses. Stagnation in information technology spending due to economic conditions or other factors could significantly harm our business and operating results. If we do not keep pace with technological change, including maintaining interoperability of our products with the software and hardware platforms predominantly used by our customers, our products may be rendered obsolete, and our business may fail. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards. In order to achieve broad customer acceptance, our products must be compatible with major software and hardware platforms used by our customers. Our products currently operate on the Microsoft Windows NT, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, Linux and Microsoft Windows 2000 Operating Systems and are J2EE compliant. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with electronic commerce applications and databases. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these operating systems, applications and databases. Our SE configuration, pricing and quoting products are complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system, electronic commerce application or database, our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing software could lead to new competitive products that have better performance or lower prices than our products and could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Our failure to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business and operating results. In the past, a small number of our customers have experienced difficulties or delays in completing implementation of our products. We may experience similar difficulties or delays in the future. Deploying our products typically involves integration with our customers’ legacy systems, such as existing databases and enterprise resource planning software as well adding their data to the system. Failing to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative 12 Table of Contents publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, time-consuming deployments may also increase the amount of professional services we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our direct sales force, sales of our products and services may not meet our expectations, and our business and operating results will be significantly harmed. We depend on our direct sales force for a significant portion of our current sales, and our future growth depends in part on the ability of our direct sales force to develop customer relationships and increase sales to a level that will allow us to reach and maintain profitability. If we are unable to retain qualified sales personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or to reach productivity when anticipated, we may not be able to increase sales of our products and services, and our results of operation could be significantly harmed. If we are unable to manage our professional services organization, we will be unable to provide our customers with technical support for our products, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Services revenues, which generated 90%, 81% and 71% of our revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are comprised primarily of revenues from consulting fees, maintenance contracts and training and are important to our business. Services revenues have lower gross margins than license revenues. We intend to charge for our professional services on a time and materials rather than a fixed-fee basis. However, in current market conditions, many customers insist on services provided on a fixed-fee basis. To the extent that customers are unwilling to utilize third-party consultants or require us to provide professional services on a fixed-fee basis, our cost of services revenues could increase and could cause us to recognize a loss on a specific contract, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to provide these professional services, we may lose sales or incur customer dissatisfaction, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. If new versions and releases of our products contain errors or defects, we could suffer losses and negative publicity, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, including errors relating to security, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and provided product updates to our customers to address such defects. Our products and other future products may contain defects or errors, that could result in lost revenues, a delay in market acceptance or negative publicity, each which would significantly harm our business and operating results. Demand for our products and services will decline significantly if our software cannot support and manage a substantial number of users. Our strategy requires that our products be highly scalable. To date, only a limited number of our customers have deployed our products on a large scale. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale deployments, or if they determine that we cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. We may not be able to recruit or retain personnel, which could impact the development or sales of our products. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, engineering, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. We do not have employment agreements with most of our key personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to our lack of capacity to develop and market our products. Competition for such personnel has markedly intensified in India, where we have a large portion of our workforce. Many multinational corporations have expanded their operations into India, and there is an increased demand for individuals with relevant technology experience. If we become subject to product liability litigation, it could be costly and time consuming to defend and could distract us from focusing on our business and operations. Since our products are company-wide, mission-critical computer applications with a potentially strong impact on our customers’ sales, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Although our license 13 Table of Contents agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Our results of operations will be reduced by charges associated with stock-based compensation, accelerated vesting associated with stock options issued to employees, charges associated with other securities issued by us, and charges related to variable accounting. We have in the past and expect in the future to incur a significant amount of charges related to securities issuances in future periods, which will negatively affect our operating results. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, we recognized approximately $203,000 and $637,000 of such charges, which included the compensation expenses related to deferred compensation, option acceleration, option modification, and variable accounting, respectively. The Company adopted the provisions of FASB 123R using a modified prospective application effective April 1, 2006. We use the Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value of our share-based payments and recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. This new pronouncement from the FASB provides for certain changes to the method for valuing stock-based compensation. Among other changes, FASB 123R will apply to new awards and to awards that are outstanding which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Compensation expense cost calculated under FASB 123R will negatively impact our operating results in the future. Failure to improve and maintain relationships with systems integrators and consulting firms, which assist us with the sale and installation of our products, would impede the acceptance of our products and the growth of our revenues. Our strategy has been to rely in part upon systems integrators and consulting firms to recommend our products to their customers and to install and deploy our products. To date, we have had limited success in utilizing these firms as a sales channel or as a provider of professional services. To increase our revenues and implementation capabilities, we must continue to develop and expand our relationships with these systems integrators and consulting firms. If these systems integrators and consulting firms are unwilling to install and deploy our products, we may not have the resources to provide adequate implementation services to our customers, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. Our on demand solutions are hosted by a third-party provider. Our CLM on demand solutions are hosted by a third party data-center provider. Failure of the data center provider to maintain service levels as contracted, could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer losses and potential product warranty or performance liabilities. We are subject to evolving and expensive corporate governance regulations and requirements. Our failure to adequately adhere to these requirements or the failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. Because we are a publicly-traded company, we are subject to certain federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these evolving regulations is costly and requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent fraud or other errors in the future Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it impossible for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system are met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect fraud or other errors could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Item 9A of Part II reports our conclusion that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial statement preparation and review procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2007, due to material weaknesses in internal control over financial statement preparation and review procedures at that date that are subject to our continuing remediation efforts. 14 Table of Contents Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of the company. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Delaware law and the stockholder rights plan adopted by the Company on February 4, 2003 may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without approval of our directors. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares. Restrictions on export of encrypted technology could cause us to incur delays in international product sales, which would adversely impact the expansion and growth of our business. Our software utilizes encryption technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States adopts new legislation restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may experience delay or reduction in shipment of our products internationally. Current or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our products outside of the United States. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. Changes to accounting standards and financial reporting requirements or tax laws, may affect our financial results. We are required to follow accounting standards and financial reporting set by governing bodies in the U.S. and other countries where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies implement new and revised laws and regulations. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and tax laws may require changes to accounting principles used in preparing our financial statements. These changes may have a material impact on our business and financial results. For example, a change in accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change became effective. As a result, changes to existing rules or reconsideration of current practices caused by such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated. There is a significant risk that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the future in response to any of the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements that our revenues or income are below analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or industry performance; • general economic slowdowns; 15 Table of Contents • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the loss of a major customer or our failure to complete significant license transactions; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of software and Internet-related companies. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our stock price volatility. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We have experienced significant volatility in the price of our stock over the past two years. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could limit the market for our products and services, or impose greater tax burdens on us or liability for transmission of protected data. As electronic commerce and the Internet continue to evolve, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations covering issues such as user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for electronic commerce, and therefore the market for our products and services. Although many of these regulations may not apply directly to our business, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. Laws or regulations concerning telecommunications might also negatively impact us. Several telecommunications companies have petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to regulate Internet service providers and online service providers in a manner similar to long distance telephone carriers and to impose access fees on these companies. This type of legislation could increase the cost of conducting business over the Internet, which could limit the growth of electronic commerce generally and have a negative impact on our business and operating results. 