Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in the other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this annual report and our other public filings. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $4.7 million and $6.3 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $266.4 million as of March 31, 2013. We may continue to incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to the level of our future revenues and the timing and impact of our cost reduction efforts. While we have made significant progress towards aligning our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses with revenue, given the size of our business relative to the costs associated with being a public reporting company, we will need to continue to control our expenses while maintaining and increasing revenue in order to achieve profitability. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses may continue or increase, which would harm our business and operating results. Our business could be seriously harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our executive management team and other key employees. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies and priorities and the steps necessary to drive our long-term growth and stockholder value. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team or other key personnel could disrupt our operations and seriously harm our business. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers would significantly harm our business and operating results. Our revenues are dependent on orders from a relatively small number of customers. 26% of our revenues were derived from our top three customers in fiscal year 2013, and 33% of our revenues were derived from our top three customers in fiscal year 2012. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to successfully sell our products and services to one or more large customers in any particular period or a large customer purchases fewer of our products or services, defers or cancels orders, or terminates its relationship with us, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. Our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable and subject to fluctuations, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of security analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The Company generates revenue by providing its SaaS solutions through subscription license arrangements and related professional services, as well as through perpetual and term licenses and related software maintenance and professional services. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards for software and service companies. The Company recognizes revenue when (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (3) fees are fixed or determinable and (4) collectability is probable. If we determine that any one of the four criteria is not met, we will defer recognition of revenue until all the criteria are met. Our annual and quarterly recurring and non-recurring revenues may fluctuate due to our inability to perform services, achieve specific milestones and obtain formal customer acceptance of specific elements of the overall completion of a project. As we provide such services and products, the timing of delivery and acceptance, changed conditions with the customers and projects could result in changes to the timing of our revenue recognition, and thus, our operating results. Likewise, if our customers do not renew maintenance services or purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. Historically, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or renew maintenance agreements. Our customers may not renew such maintenance agreements or expand the use of our products. In addition, as we introduce new products, our current customers may not require or desire the features of our new products. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or maintenance agreements with us or choose not to purchase additional products, our operating results could suffer. 6 Because we rely on a limited number of customers, the timing of customer acceptance or milestone achievement, or the amount of services we provide to a single customer can significantly affect our operating results or the failure to replace a significant customer. Because expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues could cause our quarterly operating results to fall below anticipated levels. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our annual and quarterly results may fluctuate based upon our customers’ calendar year budgeting cycles. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results. Our CLM customers license our software in a number of ways including subscription licenses and perpetual licenses, which may be hosted in our third-party hosting center or on the customer’s own facilities. Historically the bulk of our license revenues have come from perpetual licenses which, if revenue recognition requirements are met, are recognized upon execution or release of contingencies, if any. However, more recently with the increase in demand for our SaaS-based subscription CLM solution, starting in fiscal 2012, and continuing in fiscal 2013, we transitioned our business model to focus on subscription sales and expect this trend to continue. The trend towards our customers shifting to subscription licenses, which include maintenance and may include hosting, will likely continue to affect our short-term financial results since the larger payments associated with perpetual licenses are substituted with smaller but more frequently recurring payments from our customers. Based upon the foregoing, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In some future period, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause volatility or a decline in the price of our common stock. Our future success depends on our proprietary intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property from potential competitors, our business may be significantly harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. We currently hold five patents in the United States. In addition, we have various trademarks registered or pending registration in various jurisdictions. Our trademark applications might not result in the issuance of any trademarks. Our patents or any future issued trademarks might be invalidated or circumvented or otherwise fail to provide us any meaningful protection. We seek to protect the source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to license agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation may require us to incur significant legal expenses and management time. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, we have previously been subject to claims of third parties that our products and services infringe their intellectual property rights. For example, in October 2007 we agreed to settle a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Versata Enterprises, Inc. and a related party for a $10 million payment in October 2007 and an additional amount of not more than $7.5 million, which we paid in full in fiscal 2012. It is possible that in the future, other third parties may claim that our current or potential future products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time from developing our business, cause product shipment delays, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. Our lengthy sales cycle for our products makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and exacerbates the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause our stock price to decline. 7 The sales cycle of our products has historically averaged between nine to twelve months, and may sometimes be significantly longer. We are generally required to provide a significant level of education regarding the use and benefits of our products, and potential customers tend to engage in extensive internal reviews before making purchase decisions. In addition, the purchase of our products typically involves a significant commitment by our customers of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond our control, such as customers’ internal budgetary procedures and the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations. In addition, because we target large companies, our sales cycle can be lengthier due to the decision process in large organizations. As a result of our products’ long sales cycles, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers may occur. If anticipated sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could fall below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Developments in the market for cloud-based software solutions, including our CLM and Guided Selling solutions, may harm our operating results, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The market for cloud-based software solutions, including CLM and Guided Selling solutions, is evolving rapidly. In view of changing market trends, including vendor consolidation, the competitive environment growth rate and potential size of the market are difficult to assess. The growth of the market is dependent upon the willingness of businesses and consumers to purchase complex goods and services over the Internet and the acceptance of the Internet as a platform for business applications. In addition, companies that have already invested substantial resources in other methods of Internet selling may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new approach or application that may replace, limit or compete with their existing systems. With the transition of our focus to a subscription sales SaaS model which may help address certain market challenges, the rapid change in the marketplace nonetheless poses a number of concerns. Any decrease in technology infrastructure spending may reduce the size of the market for our solutions. Our potential customers may decide to purchase more complete solutions offered by larger competitors instead of individual applications. If the market for our solutions is slow to develop, or if our customers purchase more fully integrated products, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. We face intense competition, which could reduce our sales, prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability and inhibit our future growth. The market for software and services that enable electronic commerce is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our principal competition comes from (i) publicly held and private software companies that offer integrated solutions or specific contract management and/or sales configuration solutions and (ii) internally developed solutions. Existing and potential competitors include public companies such as Oracle Corporation, Open Text and SAP, as well as privately held companies such as Appttus and Big Machines. Our competitors may intensify their efforts in our market. In addition, other enterprise software and SaaS companies may offer competitive products in the future. Competitors vary in size, in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors including the comprehensiveness of our solution, our use of Java and mobile technology and our multi-threaded architecture, some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • preferred vendor status with our customers; • more extensive name recognition and marketing power; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, giving them the ability to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Our competitors may also bundle their products in a manner that may discourage users from purchasing our products. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties, or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Competitive pressures may require us to reduce the prices of our products and services. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases, and we are unable to respond effectively. If we do not keep pace with technological change, including maintaining interoperability of our products with the software and hardware platforms predominantly used by our customers, our products may be rendered obsolete, and our business may fail. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and emerging industry standards. In order to achieve broad customer acceptance, our products must be compatible with major software and hardware platforms used by our customers. In addition, our products are required to interoperate with electronic commerce applications and databases. We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in these operating systems, applications and databases. Our configuration, pricing and quoting products are complex, and new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If our products were to be incompatible with a popular new operating system, electronic commerce application or database, our business would be significantly harmed. In addition, the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing software could lead to new competitive products that have better performance or lower prices than our products and could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. 8 Our failure to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in negative publicity and reduced sales, both of which would significantly harm our business and operating results. In the past, a small number of our customers have experienced difficulties or delays in completing implementation of our products. We may experience similar difficulties or delays in the future. Deploying our products typically involves integration with our customers’ legacy systems, such as existing databases and enterprise resource planning software as well adding their data to the system. Failing to meet customer expectations on deployment of our products could result in a loss of customers and negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, time-consuming deployments may also increase the amount of service personnel we must allocate to each customer, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our business and operating result. If we are unable to maintain our direct sales force, sales of our products and services may not meet our expectations, and our business and operating results will be significantly harmed. We depend on our direct sales force for a significant portion of our current sales, and our future growth depends in part on the ability of our direct sales force to develop customer relationships and increase sales to a level that will allow us to reach and maintain profitability. If we are unable to retain qualified sales personnel or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or to reach productivity when anticipated, we may not be able to increase sales of our products and services, and our results of operation could be significantly harmed. If we are unable to manage our professional services organization, we will be unable to provide our customers with technical support for our products, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Non-recurring revenues are comprised of revenues from professional services for system implementations, enhancements, and training and, to a lesser extent, perpetual license sales. Professional services generated 31% and 34% of our total revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our professional services revenues have lower gross margins than license revenues and recurring revenues. We often charge for our professional services on a fixed-fee basis. If we are required to spend more hours than planned without being able to bill for customers, our cost of services revenues could exceed the fees charged to our customers on certain engagements and could cause us to recognize a loss on a contract, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to provide these professional services, we may lose sales or incur customer dissatisfaction, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. If new versions and releases of our products contain errors or defects, we could suffer losses and negative publicity, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Complex software products such as ours often contain errors or defects, including errors relating to security, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In the past, we have discovered defects in our products and provided product updates to our customers to address such defects. Our products and other future products may contain defects or errors that could result in lost revenues, a delay in market acceptance or negative publicity, each which would significantly harm our business and operating results. Demand for our products and services will decline significantly if our software cannot support and manage a substantial number of users. Our strategy requires that our products be highly scalable. To date, only a limited number of our customers have deployed our products on a large scale. If our customers cannot successfully implement large-scale deployments, or if they determine that we cannot accommodate large-scale deployments, our business and operating results would be significantly harmed. If we become subject to product liability litigation, it could be costly and time consuming to defend and could distract us from focusing on our business and operations. Since our products are company-wide, mission-critical computer applications with a potentially strong impact on our customers’ sales, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Although our license agreements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate such limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. 9 Our results of operations will be reduced by charges associated with stock-based compensation. We have in the past and expect in the future to incur a significant amount of charges related to securities issuances, which will negatively affect our operating results. We adopted the provisions of ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation (ASC 718), using a modified prospective application. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of our share-based payments and recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods. This pronouncement from the FASB provides for certain changes to the method for valuing stock-based compensation. Among other changes, ASC 718 applies to new awards and to awards that are outstanding which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Compensation expense calculated under ASC 718 will continue to negatively impact our operating results. Failure to improve and maintain relationships with systems integrators and consulting firms, which assist us with the sale and installation of our products, would impede the acceptance of our products and the growth of our revenues. Our strategy has been to rely in part upon systems integrators and consulting firms to recommend our products to their customers and to install and deploy our products. To date, we have had limited success in utilizing these firms as a sales channel or as a provider of professional services. To increase our revenues and implementation capabilities, we must continue to develop and expand our relationships with these systems integrators and consulting firms. If these systems integrators and consulting firms are unwilling to install and deploy our products, we may not have the resources to provide adequate implementation services to our customers, and our business and operating results could be significantly harmed. Some of our customers are hosted by a third-party provider. Some of our CLM customers’ licenses are hosted by a third-party data center provider under contract to us. Failure of the data center provider to maintain service levels as contracted could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer losses and potential product warranty or performance liabilities. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our board of directors or the direction of our company. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights agreement, as amended to date, may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without approval of our directors. These provisions include: • requiring a majority vote in uncontested elections of directors; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • granting our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • issuing shareholders rights to purchase additional shares of stock in the event that any person, together with its affiliates and associates, (i) acquires beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) commences a tender offer for our shares if upon consummation of the tender offer such person would beneficially own 4.99% or more of the outstanding common stock, subject, in each case, to certain exceptions. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit your strategic opportunities to sell your shares. Restrictions on export of encrypted technology could cause us to incur delays in international product sales, which would adversely impact the expansion and growth of our business. Our software utilizes encryption technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If our export authority is revoked or modified, if our software is unlawfully exported or if the United States adopts new legislation restricting export of software and encryption technology, we may experience delay or reduction in shipment of our products internationally. Current or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our products outside of the United States. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, we cannot effectively control the unauthorized distribution of software across the Internet. 10 Unauthorized break-ins or other assaults on our computer systems could harm our business. Our servers are vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of data or public release of proprietary information. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. These and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort may be very expensive to remedy and could adversely affect results of operations. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could limit the market for our products and services, or impose greater tax burdens on us or liability for transmission of protected data. As electronic commerce and the Internet continue to evolve, federal, state and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations covering issues such as user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for electronic commerce, and therefore the market for our products and services. Although many of these regulations may not apply directly to our business, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal or consumer information could indirectly affect our business. Risk Related to Ownership of Common Stock Our Common Stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we cannot satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements in the future. Among the conditions required for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”), NASDAQ requires us to maintain at least $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity. Previously, due to the stockholders’ equity deficiency reported in our Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2013, NASDAQ notified us that it was reviewing our eligibility for continued listing on NASDAQ. In order to regain compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement, on May 31, 2013, the Company issued and sold shares of common stock (the “Common Shares”), Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series C Stock”) and Series A Warrants to purchase shares of common stock (the “Series A Warrants”) to certain institutional funds and other accredited investors (the “Outside Investors”), pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated on the same date, raising gross proceeds of approximately $5.7 million. Concurrently, the Company entered into a Subscription Agreement with certain members of the Company’s management and board of directors to sell and issue an additional $0.7 million of Common Shares and Series B Warrants to purchase shares of common (together with the “Series A Warrants, the “Warrants”), subject to stockholder approval, in a second closing anticipated to occur immediately following the Company’s next annual meeting of the stockholders. On June 6, 2013, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing that the Company believes it has regained compliance with the NASDAQ stockholders’ equity requirement. There can be no assurance that our stockholders’ equity will continue to remain above NASDAQ’s $2.5 million minimum in the future. If we fail to timely comply with the applicable requirements, our stock may be delisted, which could make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to declines in our share price and liquidity. Without a NASDAQ listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock could decline. Delisting from NASDAQ could also result in negative publicity and could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on an over-the-counter quotation system, such as the OTCQB market, where an investor may find it more difficult to sell our stock or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that our common stock, if delisted from NASDAQ, will be listed on another national securities exchange or quoted on an over-the counter quotation system. The holders of our Series C Stock are entitled to receive dividends beginning on January 1, 2014. To the extent the Series C Stock is not earlier converted into common stock by approval at the upcoming stockholders meeting, beginning on January 1, 2014, dividends will accrue on the shares of Series C Stock at a rate of 10% per annum. The dividends are payable quarterly in cash, beginning on March 31, 2014. Dividends on shares of the Series C Stock shall be cumulative, shall accrue, whether or not declared and whether or not there are any profits, surplus or other funds or assets of the Company legally available therefor. Because of the substantial dividend to which the holders of shares of the Series C Stock are entitled, the amount of cash available to be distributed as a dividend to the holders of shares of our common stock upon declaration of any cash dividend could be substantially limited or reduced to zero. We are responsible for having the resale of the Common Shares and the shares of common stock underlying the Series C Stock and the Series A Warrants registered with the SEC within defined time periods and will incur liquidated damages if the shares are not registered with the SEC within those defined time periods. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2013 (the “Registration Rights Agreement”), entered into with certain institutional funds and the Outside Investors, we are obligated to: (i) file a registration statement covering the resale of the Common Shares and the common stock underlying the Series C Stock and issuable upon the exercise of the Series A Warrants with the SEC within 45 days following the Initial Closing Date (the “Filing Deadline”); (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective (A) within 90 days following the Initial Closing Date (the “Required Effectiveness Date”); provided that, if the SEC reviews and has written comments to the registration statement, then the Required Effectiveness Date will be 120 days from the Initial Closing Date, or (B) within 5 business days following the date the SEC notifies us that it will not review the registration statement or that we may request effectiveness of the registration statement and (iii) use commercially reasonable best to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (x) the date on which all the securities covered by such registration statement have been sold, or (y) the date all of the securities covered by such registration statement may be sold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If we fail to comply with these or certain other provisions under the Registration Rights Agreement, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages equal to one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the aggregate purchase price paid by the Outside Investors for their securities for each 30-day period (or pro rata for any portion thereof) following the Filing Deadline for which no registration statement is filed. The total liquidated damages under this provision are not capped. Any such payments could materially affect our ability to fund our operations. 11 The Certificate of Designation governing the Series C Stock contains various covenants and restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. Under the Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Certificate of Designation”) filed by the Company with the Delaware Secretary of State with respect to the Series C Stock, we are not permitted, without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least 66% of the shares of Series C Stock, directly or indirectly, to take or agree to take any of the following actions, to the extent the Series C Stock is not earlier converted into common stock by approval at the upcoming stockholders meeting: ● authorize, create, designate, establish or issue, whether by reclassification or otherwise, an increased number of shares of Series C Stock or any other class or series of capital stock ranking senior to or on parity with the Series C Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation; ● adopt a plan for liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company or any recapitalization plan, or file any petition seeking protection under federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; ● enter into any Change of Control Transaction (as defined in the Certificate of Designation); ● incur or assume any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $500,000, other than under our existing Credit Facility, as defined in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements below; ● amend, alter or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws and the powers, preferences, privileges, relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Series C Stock, or which would increase or decrease the amount of authorized shares of the Series C Stock or of any other series of preferred stock ranking senior to the Series C Stock, with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation; ● directly or indirectly, declare or pay any dividend (other than certain permitted dividends) or directly or indirectly purchase, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire any share of common stock, any securities or any other class or series of the Company’s capital stock (other than certain permitted repurchases); ● materially change the nature or scope of the Company’s business; or ● enter into any agreement or other arrangement that would, directly or indirectly, preclude us from complying with our redemption obligations or dividend payment obligations pursuant to the Certificate of Designation. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The Outside Investors will have substantial voting power on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Based on 3,464,359 shares of common stock outstanding as of May 31, 2013, the outstanding Common Shares and shares of Series C Stock issued to the Outside Investors represent, in the aggregate, approximately 20.7% of the voting power of our stock. Additionally, one of the Outside Investors is the Company’s largest existing stockholder. Because the Outside Investors will own a significant percentage of our voting power, they may have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the ownership by the Outside Investors of a substantial percentage of our total voting power and the terms of the Series C Stock could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would generally be beneficial to our stockholders. The Series C Stock is redeemable at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. On or after May 31, 2014, the holders of at least a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Series C Stock may require us to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Series C Stock, to the extent funds are legally available for such redemption and to the extent the Series C Stock is not earlier converted into common stock by approval at the upcoming stockholders meeting. The redemption price per share of the Series C Stock is equal to the then current conversion price, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends up to, but not including, the redemption date. Depending on our cash resources at the time that this redemption right is exercised, we may or may not be able to fund the redemption from our available cash resources. If we were unable to fund the redemption from available cash resources we would need to find an alternative source of financing to do so. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise such funds on favorable terms or at all if they are required. We have agreed to give the holders of shares of the Series C Stock and Warrants the right to participate in subsequent stock issuances. 12 We agreed that if we issue and sell any new equity securities, subject to certain exceptions, we will give the holders of the Series C Stock and the Warrants the right to purchase a portion of those new securities so as to permit each of them to maintain their proportional ownership in our stock. The existence of this right may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing from third parties that do not wish to have holders of Series C Stock or Warrants participating in their financing. Our stock price could decline because of the potentially dilutive effect of the Financing and any future financing, Series C Stock or Warrant anti-dilution provisions, or conversion or exercise of the Series C Stock or the Warrants. The conversion price of the Series C Stock, and the number of shares of common stock underlying the Warrants and the Warrant exercise price, are subject to broad-based weighted-average anti-dilution adjustment in the event the Company issues securities, other than certain excepted issuances and subject to certain limitations, at a price below the then current conversion price or exercise price, respectively. Assuming exercise in full of all Warrants plus conversion of the Series C Stock (assuming stockholder approval is obtained), approximately an additional 686,000 shares of common stock will be issued and outstanding, diluting our stockholders. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future application of anti-dilution features of our Series C Stock and our Warrants, or dividend or redemption features of our Series C Stock. Additionally, sales in the public market of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion of shares of the Series C Stock or exercise of the Warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock financings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 