D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Internet Gold We have experienced significant growth, which may be difficult to sustain and has placed a significant strain on our resources, and we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain our revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, we acquired 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. Since then, our total assets grew from approximately NIS 1.7 billion as at December 31, 2006 to NIS1.9 billion ($511 million) as at December 31, 2008, and our revenues grew from NIS 408.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 to NIS 1.2 billion ($307 million) for the year ended December 31, 2008. We experienced significant growth prior to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, as our revenues grew to NIS 408.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 288.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our organic growth and the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on our management as well as our operational, administrative and financial resources and our internal controls. The demand on our network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with our expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as we expand our business. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect our ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase our profitability. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brands, we may be unable to attract enough customers to our services to maintain or increase our market share. We believe that we must maintain and strengthen awareness of our 012 Smile.Communications and Smile.Media brands. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brands, we may be unable to attract additional customers and increase our market share. Brand recognition may become even more important in the future if competition increases in the communications market. We intend to continue to pursue a brand-enhancement strategy, which may include mass market and multimedia advertising, promotional programs, public relations activities and joint marketing programs. These initiatives will involve significant expenses. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, we may not be able to attract additional customers, our sales and marketing expenses may never be recovered and we may be unable to increase future revenues. We are reliant on our management team and a loss of any key member of our management could have an adverse effect on our future. Our future development is dependent upon our present and prospective management team, including our chief executive officer, Eli Holtzman, who also serves as chief executive officer of Smile.Media and vice chairman of 012 Smile.Communications, Doron Turgeman, our chief financial officer who also serves as deputy chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Smile.Media, Stella Handler, the chief executive officer of 012 Smile.Communications, and Doron Ilan, the chief financial officer and vice president finance of 012 Smile.Communications. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our officers or employees. The loss of any key member of our management for any reason may have an adverse effect on our future. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified key management and employees. Competition for highly-skilled engineers and managers is intense in the industry in which we operate, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified engineers and project mangers to fulfill our current or future needs. This could adversely impact our results of operations or financial performance. - 5 - We and our subsidiaries may not be able to protect our intellectual property or successfully defend infringement claims. We and our subsidiaries regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, service marks, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the image of our brands may be harmed and our business may suffer. The protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets and other intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect these assets may not adequately protect our rights, or others may independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Such events could substantially diminish the value of our technology and property which could adversely affect our businesses. We and our subsidiaries may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards and could limit our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the future. Third parties may in the future assert claims against us and our subsidiaries alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights or failure to maintain confidentiality of user data. In addition, third parties may make trademark infringement and related claims against us over the display of search results triggered by search terms that include trademark terms. As we and our subsidiaries expand our businesses and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement claims. In the event that there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other third-party rights such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to change our business practices in the future and limit our ability to compete effectively. We and our subsidiaries may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. In addition, many of the agreements we have with our customers or affiliates may require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. The occurrence of any of these results could harm our brands and negatively impact our operating results. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, which may subject you to dilution, and may be unable to do so on favorable or acceptable terms or at all, which may harm our ability to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. If cash generated from our operations is insufficient to meet our operating and strategic needs, we may need to raise additional funds in order to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. The availability of funds for future expansion and the development of new or enhanced services will depend on a number of factors, including our operating performance, our ability to issue equity and market conditions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the holdings of our shareholders will be diluted and their ownership percentage will be reduced. Furthermore, new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. Additional financing may not be available when and to the extent required, or if available, it may not be on acceptable terms. - 6 - The current global financial crisis may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current worldwide economic crisis has created significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, which may adversely affect our customers’ ability to purchase our services services and fulfill their obligations to us. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current global financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our or our customers’ liquidity and capital resources, or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Israeli economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. This slowdown has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and what adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general and the Israeli economy and the markets in which we operate in particular. We may be unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act started in connection with the filing of this annual report on Form 20-F in connection with which our management has assessed and issued a report regarding our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to 012 Smile.Communications 012 Smile.Communications has experienced significant growth, which has placed a substantial strain on our resources. The failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain 012 Smile.Communications’ revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, 012 Smile.Communications acquired one of our principal competitors, 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. 012 Smile.Communications’ total assets increased to NIS 1.6 billion ($422 million) as at December 31, 2008 from NIS 223.4 million as at December 31, 2005, and its revenues increased to NIS 1.1 billion ($291 million) for the year ended December 31, 2008 from NIS 343.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines at December 31, 2006. The organic growth of 012 Smile.Communications and the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on 012 Smile.Communications’ management as well as its operational, administrative and financial resources and its internal controls. The demand on 012 Smile.Communications’ network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with its expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as 012 Smile.Communications expands its business. 012 Smile.Communications’ infrastructure, technical and customer support staff, operational and billing systems and other resources may not adequately accommodate or facilitate the growth of its business. Another part of 012 Smile.Communications’ growth strategy is managing and reducing the costs associated with delivering its services, including recurring service costs such as communications and customer support costs as well as expenses incurred to add new customers, such as sales and marketing, installation and hardware costs. There can be no assurance that 012 Smile.Communications will be able to manage its expanding operations effectively or that it will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect its ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase its profitability. - 7 - The recent change in regulatory limitations on Bezeq The Israel Telecommunications Corp. Ltd. and other telecom providers will likely result in increased competition, and may result in a reduction in our revenues from interconnect fees. Bezeq The Israel Telecommunications Corp. Ltd. or Bezeq, the incumbent local telephony provider, is subject to several regulatory limitations, including restrictions on its ability to provide bundled service offerings, restrictions to entry into the VoB market and supervised tariffs. Under its license, Bezeq is also subject to the principle of structural separation in providing its various communication services. According to the policy of the Israeli Ministry of Communications, or the Ministry of Communications, once Bezeq’s market share of domestic fixed-line telephony in a particular customer segment (business or private) falls below 85%, Bezeq’s license will be amended so as to enable it to submit an application for the Minister of Communications’ approval to market a basket of services (including broadcast services) in that customer segment, which includes telecommunications services provided by Bezeq and by a subsidiary. The Minister of Communications’ approval to market a basket of services will be granted based on the status of competition in the area of telecommunications or broadcasts and will be subject to certain conditions set forth in the policy. According to the announcement of the Ministry of Communications on August 25, 2008, as of June 2008, Bezeq’s market share declined in the fixed-line telephony sector (private sector) to below 85% in terms of normative revenue. The Ministry of Communications subsequently announced that Bezeq’s share of the fixed-line phone market had declined sufficiently to permit it to seek authority to offer a package of services with respect to the residential sector. According to the announcement of the Ministry of Communications in May 2009, Bezeq’s market share in November 2008, was 80.7% in the residential sector and 86.6% in the business sector. Additionally, commencing November 2008, the Ministry of Communications measured the market share using a new format recommended by the Gronau Committee, which provides that regular lines and traffic lines must be measured separately. In accordance with the new measuring system, Bezeq’s market share based on normative income is 79.2% for regular lines and 81.2% for traffic lines. Accordingly, Bezeq applied to the Ministry of Communications to begin providing bundled services, which could potentially include local and international telephony, broadband Internet access, Internet service provider, or ISP, services, cellular services and multi-channel TV. On July 3, 2008, Bezeq received a draft amendment of its license and the licenses of its subsidiary companies Pelephone, Bezeq International and D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd. regarding the marketing of joint service packages. In July 2008, Bezeq submitted its position to the Ministry of Communications, stating that the amendment of the licenses represents an intensification of regulation in comparison to the policy document of the Minister of Communications dated March 31, 2004, which is supposed to reflect relief for Bezeq, and it would be appropriate to allow a model for marketing of joint packages of services that represents relief for Bezeq now that its market share has decreased to 85% or less, together with ministerial supervision using more moderate measures than those proposed in the draft amendment to the license. On January 22, 2009, draft amendments to the general licenses of Bezeq and its subsidiaries were submitted to such companies and published on the website of the Ministry of Communications. The amendments addressed the approval for marketing of the joint packages. On February 8, 2009, Bezeq submitted its position, stating that its material remarks were not reflected in the draft, without explanation. Bezeq requested material amendments to the first draft amendment. The Ministry of Communications is presently conducting several hearings that may lead to additional amendments to Bezeq and its subsidiaries licenses’ that will allow them to offer such bundled services. In the event the Ministry of Communications allows the Bezeq group to bundle services, this may increase Bezeq’s competitive position in the communication market and increase its direct competition with us, in a manner that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Bezeq pays 012 Smile.Communications interconnect fees with respect to calls made from Bezeq fixed-lines to 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB lines. Bezeq has raised the claim that it should not be required to pay us interconnect fees because we use its infrastructure. Although the Ministry of Communications has determined that Bezeq should pay 012 Smile.Communications interconnect fees for calls originated from Bezeq fixed-lines to 012 Smile.Communications’ lines at the same tariff as 012 Smile.Communications pay Bezeq, this determination will be reviewed by the Ministry of Communications by the end of 2009 and there is no certainty that the Ministry of Communications will not reverse its determination that Bezeq should pay us interconnect fees at then current rates or at all. - 8 - In February 2009, the Minister of Communications granted a VoB service operation license to B.I.P. Communication Solutions, a Bezeq International subsidiary. The license will enable Bezeq to deliver telephony services over broadband (VoB) to private customers. Additionally, once Bezeq’s market share of the business sector of domestic telephony market goes below 85%, Bezeq International may also be able to provide this service to business clients as a separate or bundled service. If the Ministry of Communications releases Bezeq from the prevailing regulatory limitations, it would enjoy a competitive advantage because it will be able to bundle services through its affiliates or in conjunction with a third party. This could result in Bezeq becoming an even stronger competitor. Bezeq currently has an advantageous position in the market because it has a dominant presence in all segments of the communications market and can easily provide its customers with access to a great variety of services. The Ministry of Communications will also examine the competitive position of D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., which operates under the trade name YES, and it may allow it to enter the VoB market if its competitive position deteriorates. Changes in the regulatory and legal compliance environment could adversely affect the operations and business activities of 012 Smile.Communications and could result in increased competition and reduced revenues and profitability. 012 Smile.Communications operates in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits its flexibility in managing its business. 012 Smile.Communications is subject to regulation regarding communications licenses, antitrust and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Its business and operations could be adversely affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications, as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities, such as the following: — The recent deregulation of the monopoly-based restrictions imposed on Bezeq, Israel's incumbent telephony operator, and its affiliates; — The recent deregulation of the restriction imposed on Bezeq and its affiliates, including on D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., which operates under the trade name YES, Israel’s sole satellite television service provider, that permits Bezeq’s affiliates to provide VoB services; — Changing the restrictions imposed on cellular operators that will allow them to provide international telephony services in the future; — Changing the regulation that requires the incumbent infrastructure providers Bezeq and HOT to allow us “open access” enabling us to provide broadband and traditional voice services, or deregulating the restrictions that currently prevent them from charging us for the use of their infrastructure; — Changing the regulations affecting our interconnection arrangements with other operators; — Changing call termination tariffs; — Limiting the prices that we may charge our customers; — Broadening or increasing the range of revenues on which royalties are paid; — Changing the regulations affecting our international and local telephony business; and — Changing the regulations affecting our on-going relationships with customers under fixed-term contracts. - 9 - Such actions could result in increased competition and expenses, and reduced revenues and profitability. The current legislation in Israel grants the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to our business, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions, such as fines. As a result, the interpretation and implementation of laws and regulations as well as provisions of 012 Smile.Communications’ licenses are subject to the administrative discretion of the Ministry of Communications. Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that we expect and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to the business of 012 Smile.Communications. 012 Smile.Communications depends on maintaining and renewing its existing regulatory licenses in order to fully conduct its business. 012 Smile.Communications’ inability to maintain and renew its existing licenses would negatively impact its and our results of operations revenues and profitability. 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to offer its broadband and traditional voice services depends on its ability to maintain and renew the licenses it has received from the Ministry of Communications. Although 012 Smile.Communications is entitled to renew its licenses, such licenses are subject to many terms and conditions. Any renewal or extension is subject to the discretion of the Ministry of Communications and may be renewed or extended, if at all, on terms materially different to the terms under which 012 Smile.Communications now operates. Any such change in the terms and conditions of these licenses may materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Such licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Ministry of Communications if 012 Smile.Communications defaults under or violates their terms. Each license requires 012 Smile.Communications to adhere to certain requirements, which include the scope of services to be provided under the license, the amount of royalties to be paid to the Ministry of Communications, technical standards employed in providing the services, maintenance and support procedures and protocols, communications with customers and information to be provided to the Ministry of Communications on a regular basis. The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, or the Communications Law, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of 012 Smile.Communications’ directors must be Israeli citizens and residents, Israeli citizens and residents must own at least 20% of its outstanding share capital and must have the right to appoint at least 20% of 012 Smile.Communications’ directors. In addition, 012 Smile.Communications’ licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of its outstanding share capital. If these requirements are not complied with, 012 Smile.Communications will be found to be in breach of its licenses and its licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked and we may also incur substantial fines. See “Government Regulation – Licenses and Applications.” While 012 Smile.Communications believes that it is currently in compliance with the other material requirements of its licenses, the technical standards used to measure these requirements as well as other license provisions are subject to interpretation and we cannot be certain of 012 Smile.Communications’ compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that 012 Smile.Communications’ licenses will not be revoked, will be extended when necessary, or, if extended, on what terms an extension may be granted. The industry in which 012 Smile.Communications operates is dynamic, and it will need to seek additional licenses in the future. The inability to obtain any such new license may negatively impact 012 Smile.Communications’ growth opportunities and revenues. The communications industry is constantly evolving. New technologies and processes may require additional licenses from the Ministry of Communications. 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to introduce new services, depends upon its ability to receive the appropriate licenses. 012 Smile.Communications’ introduction of any new licensed services under an existing license must be authorized by the Ministry of Communications and is subject to a review period of up to 60 days, which period may be extended by the Ministry of Communications. Such review may cause 012 Smile.Communications to lose critical time in bringing new services to market. Furthermore, the Ministry of Communications may refuse to allow it to introduce such new services or make the introduction of the services subject to various conditions. - 10 - In 2007, the Ministry of Communications engaged NERA, an international consulting firm, to review the level of competition in Israel’s cellular market and to review whether to allow the entry of new operators, including MVNO’s, into the Israeli telecommunications market. Based on the findings of their review, the Ministry of Communications has begun conducting hearings regarding a draft mobile virtual network operator, or MVNO, license and regulations. In March 2008, the Gronau Committee, a public commission appointed in 2006 by the Ministry of Communications to review various issues in the Israeli communications market, published its recommendations which included a recommendation, among other things, to accelerate the procedures necessary to allow the entry of MVNOs into the cellular market. In January 2009, the Ministry of Communications prepared draft guidelines incorporating the main conditions and requirements necessary to apply for a MVNO license. The Ministry of Communications has invited potential entrepreneurs, licensees, vendors, experts on economics, technology, law and communications, consumer organizations, user and operator unions, other relevant parties as well as the general public, to present their positions on the draft license and its conditions and requirements. 012 Smile.Communications has applied to the Ministry of Communications for a full MVNO license according to the principles published by it although the final regulatory framework for the grant of such a license has not yet been established. The inability of 012 Smile.Communications to obtain any new license, including the license to provide MVNO services or to introduce new services under an existing license, may negatively impact its growth opportunities and revenues. In 2008, the Gronau Committee, which was appointed by the Ministry of Communications to consider and recommend the best means to promote further sustainable competition in the Israeli communications market, issued its recommendations to the Minister of Communications. The Gronau Committee’s recommendations call for several structural changes within the communications markets, including local loop unbundling, or LLU, of Bezeq’s infrastructure, which, if accepted and implemented, would allow 012 Smile.Communications to compete in the MVNO and IPTV sector and improve its competitive position in the VoB business market, while worsening its position in other segments, by allowing the cellular operators in Israel to compete in the traditional long distance telephony market. 012 Smile.Communications operates in the highly competitive communications industry with existing participants and potential participants that have significant resources and customers, and a regulatory authority that has encouraged new entrants, which could intensify price competition and limit its ability to maintain or increase its market share. 012 Smile.Communications is subject to intense competition, which it expects will continue in the future. Moreover, 012 Smile.Communications’ services are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Communications, whose policy is to encourage new entrants and not limit the number of licenses, which may continue to increase competition and may lead to further reductions in prices and fees charged to customers. The Ministry of Communications has encouraged new entrants into the broadband access market. HOT, the incumbent local cable provider that offers cable-modem access, has been legally permitted since March 2002 to provide Internet services through its affiliates, but, has chosen not to do so. While we cannot predict if or when HOT will become an ISP, its entry into the market could significantly harm 012 Smile.Communications’ competitive position in the broadband access market. In March 2008, the Gronau Committee, which was appointed by the Ministry of Communications to consider and recommend the best means to promote further sustainable competition in the Israeli communications market, issued its recommendation to the Minister of Communications. The Gronau Committee’s recommendations call for several structural changes within the communications markets, including local loop unbundling of Bezeq’s infrastructure, which, if accepted and implemented, would allow 012 Smile.Communications to compete in the MVNO and IPTV sectors and improve our competitive position in the VoB business market, while worsening 012 Smile.Communications’ position in other segments, by allowing the cellular operators in Israel to compete in the traditional long distance telephony market. - 11 - On August 20, 2008, Israel’s Minister of Communications issued his decision to implement the recommendations of the Gronau Committee to increase competition in the communications market. When implemented, we expect that this will result in the following: — Increased competition within the Israel cellular communication market by granting MVNO licenses; — Cellular operators will not be allowed to enter the international long distance market unless an international communication services provider will be granted a MVNO license, subject to changes in the tariffs for the international calls made by cellular phone users; — Increased competition within the landline communication services as a result of enforcing local loop unbundling of the infrastructure of Bezeq. Following such local loop unbundling, Bezeq’s subsidiaries will be allowed to offer bundled services, subject to several additional terms and conditions. Based on the experience of operators elsewhere and according to the conclusions of the report prepared for the Ministry of Communications by a leading international consulting company, 012 Smile.Communications assume that the entry of a MVNO (a mobile virtual network operator) using the frequencies and antennas of an existing mobile operator will lead to increased competition in Israel. The entry of additional operators into the mobile sector may alter the balance that has prevailed among the cellular operators in recent years and increased competition will ultimately result in lower prices for consumers. The entry of additional mobile operators into this market may increase the competition among the companies in the sector and encourage them to provide more attractive offers to their customers. In addition, the Ministry of Communications recently announced its intention to increase competition in the cellular market by granting a cellular license to a new cellular operator in Israel. In May 2009, the Ministry of Communications appointed an integrated tender committee to perform a public tender for the allocation of new third generation frequencies for a new cellular operator and for the grant of a cellular license to a new cellular operator. 012 Smile.Communications is currently reviewing its possibilities with regard to such tender. The Ministry of Communications has also encouraged new entrants into the international telephony services sub-sector. Israel’s cellular operators are currently not licensed to provide international telephony services. If this situation were to change, competition would be further intensified and could require 012 Smile.Communications to lower its prices, grant incentives to customers, increase selling and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs and could also result in increased customer churn. These developments, could create a more formidable competitor offering bundled international telephony, broadband Internet access, data, local telephony and mobile services, which could harm 012 Smile.Communications’ competitive position. We expect other competitors, including companies that are not presently engaged in local and international telephony, will provide VoB services in the future, when they receive the appropriate licenses from the Ministry of Communications, which could adversely impact 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to increase its market share. In the future, 012 Smile.Communications may face additional competition from cellular operators in Israel, such as Cellcom, Partner and Pelephone, all of which have received ISP licenses, and from international ISPs. During December 2008 and January 2009, Partner entered into the ISP and VoB markets and launched its new portfolio of services which include ISP services, e-mail access, Wi-Fi, fixed telephony through VoB technology and web-based entertainment multimedia services. 012 Smile.Communications also competes against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype (a service of eBay Inc.), which is not subject to licensing restrictions in Israel, as well as independent voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers that may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share and may offer their services at lower prices or for free. Such competitive environment could intensify price competition and limit 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to maintain or increase its market share of the local telephony market. - 12 - 012 Smile.Communications’ hubbing services are subject to a high degree of volatility and any reduction in hubbing services customers could significantly reduce our revenues. The profitability of 012 Smile.Communications’ hubbing services business is driven by the needs of its customers whose demand for hubbing services is constantly fluctuating. In late 2007, 012 Smile.Communications reduced its hubbing services business because of its lower operating margin. As a result, its hubbing services business declined significantly beginning in the last fiscal quarter of 2007, and reached a stable level of quarterly revenues during 2008, which 012 Smile.Communications expects to maintain going forward. 012 Smile.Communications’ hubbing business might be subject to a certain degree of volatility and could result in fluctuations in 012 Smile.Communications’ reported revenues and net income on a quarterly basis. 012 Smile.Communications operates in a market which already exhibits maturity and high user penetration and it may have to offer price reductions and increase marketing efforts to attract and retain customers, which may have a negative impact on its profitability. The Israeli communications market is mature, with both traditional voice and broadband access being particularly competitive segments of the communications market. 012 Smile.Communications’ future revenues will depend significantly on its ability to retain existing customers, to sell those customers additional services, such as local telephony, to offer a wide range of enhanced communications services on an individual basis or as part of a bundle of multiple services, and to attract new customers from other providers. 012 Smile.Communications may not be successful in its efforts. In addition, the competitive market environment has required it in the past and may require it in the future to adopt an aggressive marketing policy in order to attract a greater number of customers, including reducing its rates. If adopted in the future, 012 Smile.Communications cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful. Price reductions caused by increased competition, as well as the expenses associated with the marketing efforts required to attract and retain customers, may have a negative impact on its profitability. 012 Smile.Communications may be subject to fines or face claims of being in violation of the Israeli Communications Law or in violation of the Ministry of Communications’ number portability plan, which could adversely affect 012 Smile.Communications profitability. As a result of an amendment to the Israeli Communications Law in March 2005, international, cellular and landline telephony operators were required to implement number portability by September 1, 2006. Number portability permits local telephony subscribers to change to another network operator without having to change their telephone numbers. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and coordinate the transition to number portability by September 1, 2006, none of the operators were able to implement number portability. On May 24, 2007, all of the cellular and landline telephony operators, including 012 Smile.Communications and its subsidiary, 012 Telecom, our landline telephony operator, were notified by the Ministry of Communications that failure to implement the number portability program constituted a continued violation of the Israeli Communications Law and the number portability plan published by the Ministry of Communications in August 2005. 012 Smile.Communications was notified that the Ministry of Communications was considering imposing fines of NIS 2,032,750 (approximately $535,650) and additional daily fines of NIS 6,450 ($1,700), beginning May 25, 2007. 012 Smile.Communications submitted its response to the notifications on July 5, 2007 and implemented number portability in December 2007. In November 2008, the Ministry of Communications asked 012 Smile.Communications to provide actual details with respect to the implementation dates of the number portability in its systems. To date, the Ministry of Communications has not imposed any fines. 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB services are not the same as traditional telephony services and may not be adopted by mainstream customers, which could harm our future growth. 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB services are not the same as traditional telephony services. The quality of VoB service is dependent to a great measure on the quality of broadband access provided by Bezeq and HOT over which we have no control. Among the differences between 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB service and traditional voice services are: — If 012 Smile.Communications' customers experience a loss of power, their services will be interrupted; - 13 - — 012 Smile.Communications' VoB services will be interrupted if its customers experience interruption in broadband access; and — Depending on the quality of the broadband access provided to 012 Smile.Communications’ customers, they may experience lower call quality than that experienced over traditional fixed-line telephones, including static, echoes and delays in transmission. If customers do not accept these differences between VoB service and traditional voice service, they may choose to continue using traditional voice services or may choose to return to services provided by traditional telephone companies. The growth of 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB business is dependent on the adoption of its services by mainstream customers and therefore the rate of adoption may have a significant effect on its growth. The operations of 012 Smile.Communications depend on its ability to successfully expand and upgrade its network and integrate new technologies and equipment into its network. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading its network, or making new features available, could increase 012 Smile.Communications’ expenses and negatively impact its financial results. Capacity constraints within 012 Smile.Communications’ networks and those of its suppliers have occurred in the past and will likely occur in the future. As the number of its customers using broadband services and the amount and type of information they wish to transmit over the Internet increases, 012 Smile.Communications may need to expand and upgrade its technology, processing systems and network infrastructure, which could be expensive and involve substantial management resources and capital expenditures. We do not know whether 012 Smile.Communications will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of any such increases, or expand and upgrade 012 Smile.Communications’ systems and infrastructure in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading its network, or making new features available could increase its expenses and negatively impact its financial results. The broadband and traditional voice services markets are subject to rapid technological change, which could adversely affect 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to compete and increase expenses. The markets in which 012 Smile.Communications competes are characterized by rapidly changing and converging technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. New services and technologies may be superior to the services or technologies that 012 Smile.Communications uses and may render its services and technologies obsolete or require it to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its services or technologies. The development and expansion of 012 Smile.Communications’ services is dependent upon adopting new technologies and updating its systems to meet new standards. This can be a lengthy process involving long and complex evaluations and decision-making procedures that can continue over a number of months or even years. 012 Smile.Communications’ future success will depend on its ability to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of its broadband data and traditional voice services in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. The cost of implementing major infrastructure upgrade projects may fluctuate due to a number of variables over which 012 Smile.Communications has little or no control and, even though it estimates the cost of such projects based on its previous experience, costs may exceed its estimations. Such fluctuations may be due to a lengthy or complex implementation process and/or the lack of commitment of sufficient resources of, or delays caused by, the ultimate supplier and could increase its expenses and have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial performance. If 012 Smile.Communications does not successfully continue to develop its brand, it may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers to maintain or increase its market share or to recover its selling and marketing expenses, which could harm its future revenues or its ability to implement its growth strategy and its net income may be adversely affected. We believe that 012 Smile.Communications must maintain and strengthen awareness of its 012 Smile brand. If it does not successfully continue to develop its brand, it may be unable to attract additional customers and increase its market share. Brand recognition may become even more important in the future if competition increases further in the communications market. 012 Smile.Communications intends to continue to pursue a brand-enhancement strategy, which may include mass market and multimedia advertising, promotional programs, public relations activities and joint marketing programs. These initiatives will involve significant expenses. If 012 Smile.Communications’ brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, it may not be able to attract additional customers, its sales and marketing expenses may never be recovered and it may be unable to increase future revenues or implement its growth strategy and its net income may be adversely affected. - 14 - 012 Smile.Communications is dependent on certain suppliers and, if any of its arrangements with these suppliers are terminated, it may be unable to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase its expenses and reduce its profitability. 012 Smile.Communications relies on a number of third-party computer systems, networks and service providers, including local and international telephony and cable companies. All broadband Internet access by its customers is, and will continue to be, connected through the infrastructure of local access providers, Bezeq and HOT, and is dependent on the open access policy of the Ministry of Communications. At present, the Ministry of Communications does not permit HOT and Bezeq to charge for use of their infrastructure. If such restriction is deregulated, 012 Smile.Communications may incur substantial costs, which may adversely affect its profitability. 012 Smile.Communications’ ISP services are also dependent on the communications infrastructure owned and maintained by local access providers. Bezeq has suffered work stoppages on several occasions in recent years as a result of conflicts with its unionized employees. These work stoppages resulted in several days of interruption to the services that 012 Smile.Communications provides. In addition, Bezeq, HOT and other infrastructure providers have suffered technical network failures in the past. A disruption in customer access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could significantly impact the services that 012 Smile.Communications provides to its customers. An increase in 012 Smile.Communications’ cost of access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could adversely impact its results of operations. 012 Smile.Communications also depends on third parties for the physical repair and maintenance of leased lines. If an interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third-party services occurs, 012 Smile.Communications’ services may be disrupted. Many of 012 Smile.Communications’ services are dependent on the submarine infrastructure made available by Med Nautilus, owned by Telecom Italia, which connects countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea to all major Western European countries and to the United States. Med Nautilus has an effective monopoly over the provision of international submarine services to the Israeli communications industry. Although prices in respect of maintenance and current capacity are agreed on a long term basis and 012 Smile.Communications’ contract with Med Nautilus sets out the prices to be paid by 012 Smile.Communications for additional capacity for approximately two years, Med Nautilus has the ability to raise prices without 012 Smile.Communications being able to seek an alternative supplier for additional capacity. Many of 012 Smile.Communications’ relationships with third party providers are terminable upon short notice. In addition, many of its third party suppliers and communications carriers sell or lease services to 012 Smile.Communications’ competitors and may be, or in the future may become, competitors themselves. If any of their arrangements with third parties is terminated, 012 Smile.Communications may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase 012 Smile.Communications’ expenses and reduce its profitability. 012 Smile.Communications is exposed to risks relating to its network infrastructure and is dependent on services received from external suppliers. If the level of service received by 012 Smile.Communications from its external suppliers decreases, it may not be able to maintain the quality and breadth of its services, which could reduce its revenues and harm its operations. 012 Smile.Communications’ network platform is highly complex. Multiple faults occurring at the same time could severely affect its service. Although 012 Smile.Communications’ engineering staff is trained to operate and maintain its systems, there are numerous functions that they are unable to perform without external support. In addition, if the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, it may adversely impact 012 Smile.Communications’ ability to properly maintain and operate its systems and therefore have a direct effect on its service. Also, as VoB technology continues to evolve, 012 Smile.Communications will be faced with the risks associated with the use of new software. - 15 - 012 Smile.Communications does not have a direct network connection to all the possible call destinations around the world and depends on its business partners to connect calls generated by its customers to their final destinations worldwide. 012 Smile.Communications’ level of service is largely dependent on the level of service it receives from its international partners with respect to both call completion as well as call quality. Although 012 Smile.Communications makes extensive efforts to ensure the quality of calls as well as the breadth of its services, it cannot be sure that its partners will provide an adequate level of service, that it would be able to successfully replace a partner should that become necessary or that it will be able to maintain and increase the quality and breadth of its services. 012 Smile.Communications’ products and services may become obsolete, and it may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The communications services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Each of these development efforts faces a number of continuing technological and operational challenges. 012 Smile.Communications believes that its success will depend on its ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. 012 Smile.Communications faces a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with its reliance on future technological development, such as: — Other service providers may use more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services or use more efficient, less expensive technologies; — Consumers may not subscribe for its services; — 012 Smile.Communications may be unable to respond successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner; — 012 Smile.Communications may lack the financial and operational resources necessary to enable migration toward mobile MVNO technology and the development and deployment of network components and software that do not currently exist and that may require substantial upgrades to or replacements of existing infrastructure; and — Existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies may render 012 Smile.Communications’existing or planned services less profitable or obsolete. 012 Smile.Communications’ systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could which could expose 012 Smile.Communications to material risk of loss or litigation and harm its reputation. 012 Smile.Communications’ systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, communications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism and similar events. Any of these events could expose 012 Smile.Communications to a material risk of loss or litigation. In addition, if a computer virus, sabotage or other failure affecting 012 Smile.Communications’ systems is highly publicized, its reputation could be damaged and customer growth could decrease. While 012 Smile.Communications currently has partially redundant systems, it does not have full redundancy or alternative providers of hosting services. In addition, 012 Smile.Communications does not have a formal disaster recovery plan, and does not carry sufficient natural disaster or business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. 012 Smile.Communications may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of its broadband data and traditional voice services which could increase its costs, divert management time and resources and adversely affect its results of operations. The law relating to the liability of ISPs for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims by private or governmental entities may be brought against 012 Smile.Communications for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by its customers. The defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of management and other resources. In addition, 012 Smile.Communications’ professional liability insurance policy may not provide sufficient protection or cover all such exposure. Furthermore new legislation and court decisions may expose 012 Smile.Communications to liabilities or affect its services. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as content, user privacy, pricing and other controls. For example, the Ministry of Communications is currently considering the implementation of broadcast content regulation with respect to electronic distribution of video content, including content distributed over the Internet, which would, among other things, block violent and sexual content for the protection of minors. - 16 - It is also possible that if any information provided directly by 012 Smile.Communications contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against 012 Smile.Communications. For example, 012 Smile.Communications offers Web-based e-mail services, which expose it to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. In the event that 012 Smile.Communications is found responsible for any such liability and is required to pay damages, our results of operation and financial performance may be adversely affected. Even if 012 Smile.Communications ultimately succeeds, legal actions would divert management time and resources, could be costly and are likely to generate negative publicity. 012 Smile.Communications may also be forced to implement costly measures to alter the way its services are provided to avoid any further potential liability. 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service and may expose 012 Smile.Communications to significant liability. 012 Smile.Communications VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service in ways that may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. The only location information that 012 Smile.Communications’ VoB emergency calling service can transmit to a dispatcher at a public safety answering point is the information that its customers have registered with it. A customer’s registered location may be different from the customer’s actual location at the time of the call because customers can make calls almost anywhere a broadband connection is available. In these instances, emergency callers must verbally advise the operator of their location at the time of the call and, in some cases, provide a call back number so that the call can be handled or forwarded to an appropriate emergency dispatcher. Moreover, if a customer experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure occurs, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider. Customers may attempt to hold 012 Smile.Communications responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. 012 Smile.Communications may need to raise additional funds in the future, which may subject us to dilution, and it may be unable to do so on favorable or acceptable terms or at all, which may harm its ability to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. If cash generated from 012 Smile.Communications’ operations is insufficient to meet its operating and strategic needs, it may need to raise additional funds in order to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. The availability of funds for future expansion and the development of new or enhanced services will depend on a number of factors, including 012 Smile.Communications’ operating performance, its ability to issue equity and market conditions. If 012 Smile.Communications raises additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our holdings and those of its other shareholders will be diluted and our ownership percentage will be reduced. Furthermore, new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the ordinary shares that we hold. Additional financing may not be available to 012 Smile.Communications when and to the extent required or, if available, it may not be on acceptable terms. - 17 - Risks Related to Smile.Media The scope of Smile.Media’s media activities and operations was reduced significantly in 2008, which could have an adverse effect on Smile.Media’s future financial results. During 2008, the scope of activity of our media division was significantly reduced when we terminated some of its substantial media activities. In July 2008, Smile.Media reached an agreement with Microsoft, according to which Microsoft purchased our interest in MSN Israel Ltd., one of our most recognized and trafficked websites, which generated a substantial part of Smile.Media’s revenues. In March 2009, Smile.Media also sold its interest in Yahala (an Arabic language portal). Such actions could have an adverse effect on Smile.Media’s operating results and on its ability to attract users and advertisers to its websites or to increase the generation of revenue from traffic on its websites. The reduction in activity could also harm our competitive position and increase the competition that Smile.Media faces in each aspect of its business. Smile.Media faces significant competition from companies that provide eCommerce service , content, search services and advertising to Internet users and Internet service providers. Smile.Media faces significant competition in every aspect of its business, principally from Google, Walla Communications Ltd., Ynet, Tapuz and Nana10, which provide a variety of Internet content, eCommerce services and relevant advertising services. Some of Smile.Media’s competitors have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers as well as more resources than it does. Smile.Media’s competitors can use their experience and resources in a variety of ways, including acquisitions, research and development and by competing more aggressively for advertisers and online publishers. Some of Smile.Media’s competitors may also have a greater ability to attract and retain users than it does because they operate larger Internet properties with a broader range of content, products and services. In addition, some of the portals and websites that Smile.Media competes with may be operated by other Internet service providers, or ISPs. Because users need to access the Internet through ISPs, users have direct relationships with these providers. If an ISP or a computer manufacturer or computing device manufacturer offers online services that compete with Smile.Media, the user may find it more convenient to use the services of the ISP or manufacturer. Also, because the ISP gathers information from the user in connection with the establishment of a billing relationship, the ISP may be more effective than Smile.Media in tailoring services and advertisements to the specific tastes of the user. Smile.Media generates the majority of its revenue from eCommerce. Changes in general economic conditions may have an adverse effect on its eCommerce operational results. During 2008, we experienced a significant reduction in our on-line advertisement revenues, as we terminated some of our substantial media activities, including our prior MSN activity in July 2008. Since the termination of our MSN activity, Smile.Media has generated the majority of its revenue from eCommerce. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Smile.Media generated approximately 55%, 30% and 23% of its total revenue, respectively, from eCommerce. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or prolonged economic slowdown, may reduce the demand for our products and otherwise adversely affect our sales. For example, economic forces, including general economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in disposable consumer income and reductions in discretionary spending, may cause consumers to defer purchases of products offered on our eCommerce sites, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and our overall financial condition and operating results. Smile.Media’s operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly. Smile.Media’s operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of its control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include the following: — Smile.Media's ability to continue to attract users to its websites; - 18 - — General economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet, online advertising and eCommerce; — The generation of revenue from traffic on Smile.Media's websites; — The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of Smile.Media’s businesses (including new websites, projects and services), operations and infrastructure; — Smile.Media’s ability to effectively integrate newly acquired Internet properties or marketing relationships for third-party content; — Smile.Media’s ability to keep its websites operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions; and — Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. For these reasons, comparing Smile.Media’s operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and its past results may not be indicative of its future performance. Smile.Media generates a substantial part of its revenue from online advertising, and a reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause Smile.Media’s revenue and operating results to decline. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Smile.Media generated approximately, 45%, 70% and 77% of its total revenue, respectively, from online advertising. Smile.Media’s ability to continue to retain and grow its advertising revenue depends upon: — Its ability to maintain current users and continue to attract new users to its websites; — Its ability to offer advertisers a diverse range of vertically and demographically targeted audiences; — Its ability to successfully evolve its advertising formats to those preferred by advertisers, such as the emergence of lead generation and pay-per-click, which includes self-service paid search; — Widening the continued acceptance of the Internet as an advertising medium by advertisers; — Broadening its relationships with advertising agencies and small and medium-size advertisers; and — Attracting advertisers to its user base. In many cases, advertisers can terminate their contracts with Smile.Media at any time. In addition, advertisers may make smaller or shorter-term purchases, and market prices for online advertising may decrease due to competition or other factors. Advertisers will not continue to do business with Smile.Media if their advertisements on Smile.Media’s websites do not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if Smile.Media does not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. If Smile.Media is unable to remain competitive and provide value to its advertisers, it may lose its existing advertisers and fail to attract new advertisers, which would cause its revenue to decrease and have a negative effect on our business. The recent global economic crisis may adversely affect our customers, which could directly impact our media business. Continuing unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy and has impacted levels of consumer spending, including consumers of our eCommerce websites. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our media business, operating results or financial condition. Current or potential customers, such as advertisers, may delay or decrease spending on our products and services, or may not pay us or may delay payment for previously purchased products and services. If consumer spending continues to decrease, it may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers’ advertisements displayed on our websites. - 19 - eCommerce consumers are sensitive to personal and business discretionary spending levels and their spending tends to decline or grow at a slower rate during economic downturns. The downturn of domestic and global economies has increased unemployment and reduced the financial capacity of eCommerce consumers, which has caused a reduction in spending on the products and services we provide. The continuation or further deterioration of domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses and financial performance. If Smile.Media fails to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, or is unable to develop, license or acquire compelling content at reasonable costs, its competitive position and ability to retain and attract users to its websites may be harmed. Smile.Media’s future success depends in part upon its ability to retain and attract new users to its websites by offering compelling content and new products and services. Smile.Media is continuously developing new products and services for its users and developing or acquiring compelling content. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, distributional or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more new products or services. Moreover, Smile.Media cannot be sure that any of its new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. Most of Smile.Media’s Internet properties license much of the content on their properties from third parties. Such content may require substantial payments to third parties from whom Smile.Media’s Internet properties license or acquire such content. Smile.Media’s ability to maintain and build relationships with third-party content providers will be critical to its success. In addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet become available, including through mobile devices, Smile.Media may need to enter into amended content agreements with existing third-party content providers to cover the new devices. Also, to the extent that Smile.Media develops content of its own, current and potential third-party content providers may view such services as competitive with their own, and this may adversely affect their willingness to license their content to Smile.Media or to its Internet properties. Smile.Media may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third parties whose content is sought. In addition, as competition for compelling content increases both domestically and internationally, Smile.Media’s content providers may increase the prices at which they offer their content to it, and potential content providers may not offer their content on agreeable terms. Further, many of Smile.Media’s content licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other websites and other media, such as radio or television, may be able to offer similar or identical content. If Smile.Media is unable to license or acquire compelling content at reasonable prices, if other companies broadcast content that is similar to or the same as that provided by it, if it does not develop compelling editorial content or personalization services, or it fails to successfully develop and introduce new products and services on a timely and efficient basis, the number of users of its services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, which could harm our operating results. Smile.Media may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of its Internet activities. Smile.Media hosts a wide variety of services that enable individuals and businesses to exchange information, generate content, advertise products and services, conduct business and engage in various online activities on an international basis. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for the activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims may be brought against Smile.Media for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud or other theories based on the nature and content of information that it provides links to, that may be posted online or generated by its users, or with respect to auctioned materials. Smile.Media is susceptible to claims arising from its websites that are geared to other cultures and are in other languages that it cannot easily review or may have difficulty in fully understanding. Smile.Media’s defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of its management and other resources. Smile.Media generally does not exercise editorial control over the content appearing on websites that its users may be directed to from Smile.Media’s websites and may be subject to claims that it has not exercised sufficient control over such content. In the event that Smile.Media is found to be responsible for any such liability or required to pay for any damages resulting from any such responsibility, its business may be adversely affected. - 20 - Smile.Media also enters into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, or content on its websites and portals. Smile.Media may be subject to claims concerning these products, services or content by virtue of its involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if it does not host, operate, provide or provide access to these products, services or content. While its agreements with these parties often provide that Smile.Media will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by Smile.Media contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against it. For example, Smile.Media offers web-based email services which expose it to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email, or interruptions or delays in email service. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even to the extent that the claims do not ultimately result in liability. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect Smile.Media’s business. Local and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that Smile.Media receives from its users and partners. In addition, Smile.Media posts on its websites its own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by Smile.Media to comply with its posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, local, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against it by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on its business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with Smile.Media’s policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in Smile.Media and ultimately in a loss of users, partners or advertisers, which could adversely affect its business. There are a number of legislative proposals pending before various legislative bodies in Israel concerning privacy issues which may affect Smile.Media’s business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted. Certain legislation, if adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease in Smile.Media’s user traffic and revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with Smile.Media’s current data protection policies and practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause Smile.Media to incur substantial costs or require Smile.Media to change its business practices in a manner adverse to its business. The Israeli parliament recently approved an amendment to the Israeli Communications Laws regarding junk mail, which, among other provisions, requires a subscriber’s explicit permission to receive advertising by means of electronic mail, facsimile, automatic dialing systems and SMS. The amendment could reduce our advertisement traffic, including advertisements for products offered by our eCommerce sites, and may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins, and our overall financial condition and operating results. - 21 - Risks Related to Our Relationship with Eurocom Communications Ltd. Because Eurocom Communications Ltd. controls the majority of the voting power of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. Eurocom Communications Ltd, or Eurocom Communications, owned 69.79% of our outstanding shares as of June 22, 2009. Mr. Shaul Elovitch, the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of our parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, is able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. For as long as Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch indirectly have a controlling interest in our shares, they will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch have a controlling interest in our company, they will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (except outside directors), prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because the interests of Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by him with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. See Item 10B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 7B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions.” Conflicts of interest may arise between Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Eurocom Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Eurocom Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: — Loss of opportunities. Our relationship with Eurocom Communications may eliminate or reduce some opportunities for revenue growth. Eurocom Communications or its affiliates could, to the extent permitted by law, prevent us from entering into commercial relationships with third parties, such as its competitors. Additionally, competitors of Eurocom Communications may choose not to enter into commercial relationships with us because of our close relationship with Eurocom Communications and its affiliates. Affiliates of Eurocom Communications include YES, Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, a major cellular operator, and Eurocom Cellular Communications Ltd., a distributor and official representative of Nokia in Israel, and a major supplier of Partner and Cellcom Israel Ltd. — Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. The ownership interests of Eurocom Communications in our ordinary shares could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Eurocom Communications, disagreements over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. In addition, Eurocom Communications may take an opportunity for itself or preclude us from taking advantage of a corporate opportunity; and — Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Eurocom Communications or other companies within the Eurocom group may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of our independent directors or a committee of disinterested directors, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. - 22 - Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — global economic conditions; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — regulatory changes that impact competition in our markets; — changes in market valuations of other communications companies; — announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; — future sales of our ordinary shares; and — stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales or distributions of our ordinary shares by Eurocom Communications could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. Eurocom Communications may sell a portion of our ordinary shares that it owns, including pursuant to demand registration rights described elsewhere in this annual report, or distribute those shares to its shareholders. Sales or distributions by Eurocom Communications of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Eurocom Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any of our ordinary shares. Consequently, we cannot assure you that Eurocom Communications will maintain its ownership of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends to our shareholders and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investments. - 23 - We may in the future be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” Those holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company who are citizens or residents of the United States or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the passive foreign investment company, the distributions they receive from the passive foreign investment company and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the passive foreign investment company. In particular, any dividends paid by us would not be treated as “qualified dividend income” eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. If we are classified in the future as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We and our subsidiaries are incorporated, based in and currently derive substantially all of our revenues from markets within, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2008 and the beginning of 2009. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, including extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip since June 2007. Repeated attacks by Hamas, including missile strikes against Israeli population centers, led to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. - 24 - 012 Smile.Communications may be restricted in the conduct of its operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect our business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other Israeli governmental authorities may issue various instructions regarding the use of 012 Smile.Communications’ network, including the use of the network by the Israeli security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect our business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations of the NIS against foreign currencies. Most of our revenues are denominated in NIS. Our purchases of international bandwidth and other international transactions are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and most of our communications and advertising costs are in U.S. dollars. We also have U.S. dollar denominated liabilities (such as rights of use-leasing obligations for our international lines). As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and the U.S. dollar may affect our operating results and financial condition. If we expand our business into other countries, our revenue and expenses may be in other currencies. Because all foreign currencies do not fluctuate in the same manner, we cannot quantify the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, a substantial depreciation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar could substantially increase the cost of our services to Israelis, who pay us in NIS, and may result in subscriber cancellations and a reduction in Internet use and eCommerce in Israel. We engage in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on our cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. We recognize freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in our balance sheet and we measure those instruments at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. Further, as the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, our debentures are linked to the Israeli consumer price index, any increase in the Israeli Consumer Price Index will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. - 25 - Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. Because we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who, under our articles of association, has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as provisions establishing a classified board. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see “Item 6C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees –Board Practices – Approval of Related Party Transactions Under Israeli Law” and Item 10E. “Taxation -Israeli Tax Considerations.” These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and most of our directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. 