Item 1A. Risk Factors This annual report includes “forward-looking statements,” as defined by federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements may address a number of matters including the Company’s business, markets in which the Company operates, results of operations, financial condition, significant accounting policies and management judgments, and include statements based on current beliefs, assumptions, expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about these items and other matters. Words such as, but not limited to, “may,” “should,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “seeks,” “believes,” “expects,” 8 Table of Contents “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “likely,” “will,” “would,” “could,” and similar expressions or phrases identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in business generally and the markets in which the Company operates. Other risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Company’s operations. These risks and uncertainties and the achievement of expected results depends on many factors, some or all of which are not predictable or within the Company’s control. Certain risk factors facing the Company are described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from expected results. All written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any person acting on the Company’s behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risk factors and cautionary statements contained herein. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation, and specifically declines any obligation, other than that imposed by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We are exposed to general economic, business and industry conditions, a downturn in which could decrease demand for our products. We are subject to general economic, business and industry conditions. A significant or prolonged economic downturn could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results. Raw material prices and availability have a significant impact on our profitability. If raw material prices increase, and we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, or we cannot obtain raw materials in a timely manner, our results may be adversely affected. The principal raw materials that we use in our business are derived from petrochemicals and chemical feedstocks such as styrene, butadiene and polyvinyl chloride. Specifically, Performance Chemicals uses monomers such as styrene and butadiene extensively in its products, and Decorative Products uses polyvinyl chloride extensively in its products. If we are unable to pass along increased raw materials prices to our customers, our results may be adversely affected. The cost of these raw materials has a significant impact on our profitability. The prices of many of these raw materials are cyclical and volatile. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally affect the price of our raw materials. While we generally attempt to pass along increased raw materials prices onto our customers in the form of price increases, historically there has been a time delay between increased raw materials prices and our ability to increase the prices of our products. Additionally, we may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure and other factors. We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials. However, a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials. Shortages may occur in the future. Additionally, disruptions in transportation could delay receipt of raw materials. If our supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our results could be adversely affected. Consolidation of our customers and competitors has created increased pricing pressure. If we are required to reduce our price to remain competitive, this could negatively impact our results. We face continued pricing pressure from our customers and competitors. Customers frequently seek price reductions and customer consolidation in certain markets has created customers with greater purchasing power. Additionally, consolidation among our competitors has created competitors with greater financial and other resources. If we are required to reduce prices to compete and we cannot improve operating efficiencies and reduce expenditures to offset such price decrease, our results could be negatively impacted. Our sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to develop new products that appeal to customers. If we are unable to develop new products, our results may be adversely affected. Our business depends to a substantial extent on our ability to develop, introduce and support cost-effective new products and technologies on a timely basis. If we fail to develop and deploy new cost-effective products and technologies on a timely basis, our products may no longer be competitive and our results may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of Performance Chemicals sales is concentrated among several large customers. Our Performance Chemicals segment has several large customers who account for a significant portion of Performance Chemicals’ total sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one of these large customers could adversely affect our results. Our customers may not be able to compete against increased foreign competition which may adversely impact the demand for our products and our results. Our domestic customers are subject to increasing foreign competition. If the demand for domestically manufactured products declines then the demand for our domestically manufactured products may decline adversely impacting our results. Our business is subject to the risks associated with the use of chemicals. We are subject to risks associated with chemical use including explosions, fires, leaks, discharges, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruption and acts of God. The occurrence of these risks may result in material operating disruptions at our facilities and may have a material adverse effect on our results. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our goals under certain cost-reduction measures, which may adversely affect our results. We have and are undertaking operational excellence processes using LEAN Six Sigma quality, supply chain management, ERP and other initiatives in an effort to improve efficiencies and lower our cost structure. If we are unable to achieve, or if we meet any unexpected delays in achieving our goals, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, even if we achieve these goals, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these goals, or the costs of implementing these initiatives could exceed the benefits of these initiatives. We participate in several joint ventures that may not operate according to their business plans if our partners fail to fulfill their obligations. This may adversely affect our results and require us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures. We participate in several joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our results may be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans, our results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to identify or complete transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which may negatively impact our business strategy. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business. We may not be successful in consummating any acquisition, which may negatively impact our business strategy. The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events including natural disasters, political disruptions, domestic and international terrorist attacks and acts of war, may substantially decrease demand for our products. Extraordinary events, including natural disasters, political disruptions, domestic and international terrorist attacks and acts of war have the potential to adversely affect the economy generally, our business and operations specifically and the demand for our products. The occurrence of extraordinary events cannot be predicted and their occurrence could negatively affect our results. 10 Table of Contents Extensive governmental regulations impact our operations and assets, and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our results. Our business operations are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local regulations which may have a significant effect on the costs of operations including extensive environmental, health and safety regulations. We are and expect to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Certain environmental requirements provide for strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for investigation and remediation of releases of hazardous substances into the environment and liability for related damages. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future results. We anticipate that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect our results. Additionally, any such increase in costs or unanticipated liabilities may exceed our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Because we maintain a self-insured health care plan for our employees, increases in health care costs may adversely affect our results. We maintain a self-insured health care plan for our employees and certain retirees under which we generally share the cost of health care with our employees and retirees. Health care costs have been escalating over the past several years. Accordingly, as general health care costs increase, our health care expenses also increase. Such increase in costs may adversely affect our results. Our business may be adversely affected by risks typically encountered in international operations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We conduct our business in several foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political and economic instability and disruptions; • the imposition of duties and tariffs; • import and export controls; • the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations and our results. Some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The failure to renew any of those agreements on acceptable terms could increase cost or result in a prolonged work stoppage, which could materially adversely affect our results. Approximately 29% or about 480 of our employees are covered by four separate collective bargaining agreements. We cannot be assured that any of these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms in the future. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results. 11 Table of Contents Lower investment performance by our pension assets may require us to begin making contributions to the pension fund, which would divert funds from other uses. We do not anticipate being required to make cash contributions to the pension fund until 2010. However, in order to manage the pension fund over the long term, we may find it prudent to make contributions before 2010. In addition, we cannot predict whether changing conditions including interest rates, pension assets performance, discount rates, government regulation or other factors will lead or require us to make contributions earlier than or in excess of our current expectations. Additionally, we may not have the funds necessary to meet any minimum pension funding requirements. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to volatility in the market price of our stock. Historically, our stock price has experienced considerable volatility. We expect that our stock price will continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors such as: • fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows; • variations between our actual financial results and published analysts’ expectations; • technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors; and • limited liquidity of our stock. These factors and others may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock in the future. Failure to protect intellectual property may materially adversely affect our results of operations. For certain products we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be successfully asserted in the future or that they will not be invalidated or circumvented. In addition, laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure or inability of the Company to protect its proprietary information could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our results. We may be subject to an adverse litigation judgment which may adversely affect our results and financial conditions. From time to time, the Company is subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings related to product liability, product warranty, contract, employment, environmental and other matters arising out of the Company’s business. The ultimate resolution of any litigation is inherently unpredictable. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have any or adequate insurance coverage to protect the Company from any adverse litigation judgment. The Company’s estimate of liability, if any, is subject to change and the actual result may differ materially from the Company’s estimate. An adverse litigation judgment may adversely affect our results and financial condition. We have substantial debt. As of November 30, 2006, we had $165 million of total indebtedness outstanding. Our debt agreements may restrict our ability to raise additional equity capital, borrow additional funds, make capital expenditures, or sell our assets. The degree to which we are leveraged could make us more vulnerable to adverse general economic conditions. Additionally, the servicing of our debt will reduce funds available for operations and capital reinvestment. Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our debt will depend on our future financial and operating performance, which could be affected by prevailing economic conditions, financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our operating results, cash flows and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our indebtedness. If our operating results, cash flows, or capital resources prove inadequate, we could face substantial liquidity challenges and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations or delay planned expansions and capital expenditures, restructure or refinance our debt, or seek additional equity capital. There can be no 12 Table of Contents assurance that any of these actions could be affected on satisfactory terms or that future financing would be available to fund the operations of the business Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 