ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Global Economic Conditions If declining global economic conditions persist, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by the U.S. government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. government financial assistance to American International Group Inc., Citibank, Bank of America and other federal government interventions in the U.S. financial system lead to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, 18 Table of Contents and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect our business to the extent it impacts the liquidity and financial condition of our customers as well as may affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Related To Our Business Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services and to reduced rebates from manufacturers. On January 20, 2009, Barack Obama became President of the United States, representing a change from a Republican to a Democratic administration and an alignment of power between the Legislative and Executive branches of government. Under the new presidential administration, it is possible that there could be significant changes to the health care system in the United States. Possible changes could include increased governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our clients do business. Our clients and prospective clients may react to such proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. Such proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services and to reduced rebates from manufacturers. The potential scope of proposals by the new administration is not clear at this time, and thus we are unable to predict whether the new administration will have a positive, neutral or adverse effect on our business. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary and give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could greatly constrain our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. Competition in our industry is intense and could reduce or eliminate our profitability. The PBM industry is very competitive. PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. If we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. The industry is highly consolidated and dominated by a few large, profitable, well-established companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages, which we do not have. Scale is a particularly important factor in negotiating prices with pharmacies and drug manufacturers. A limited number of firms, including national PBM companies such as Medco Health Solutions, Inc., Express Scripts, Inc., and CVS Caremark, Inc., have an aggregate market share of approximately 70% of prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. Some of our services, such as disease management services, informed decision counseling services and medical information management services, also compete with those being offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers, specialized disease management companies and information service providers. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. If we lose key clients as a result of competitive bidding for contracts, contract renewals, consolidation of clients or otherwise, our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten clients generated approximately 64% of our revenue in 2008, including approximately 18% from Wellmark Blue Cross Blue Shield of Iowa and approximately 12% from the State of Maryland. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer if we were to lose any of our significant clients. Many of our clients put their contracts out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expense in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the 19 Table of Contents time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of clients who may need our services. A client involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a client of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, its contract with us. Our clients have been and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressures. If we lose pharmacy network affiliations, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Our operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and consequently our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. In addition, several large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. We receive rebates from numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer if: • we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; • we are unable to finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers for 2009 or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements; • rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds; • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; • pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or • rebates decline due to contract branded products losing their patents. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have a substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and with our PBM clients, as well as our mail order pharmacy reimbursement rates, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include AWP, AMP and Wholesale Acquisition Cost, referred to as “WAC.” Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard. Recent events, including litigation involving FirstDatabank and Medispan, have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, CMS regulations regarding the Medicaid AMP calculation could potentially impact our ability to negotiate rebates and discounts, as well as our retail pharmacy network and mail order pricing and PBM client contracts. Because the status of certain aspects of the CMS regulation remains uncertain pending the outcome of industry challenges to the regulation, we are unable to predict whether and to what extent the CMS AMP regulation will impact our business. Thus far, our business has not been materially adversely affected by the AMP regulations. These matters are discussed in detail under “Business—Government Regulation/Legislation and Litigation Affecting Drug Price,” above. We believe that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the short or long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in future periods. If our business continues to grow rapidly and we are unable to manage this growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Our business has grown rapidly since 2000, in part due to acquisitions, with total annual PBM revenue increasing from $4.9 million in 2000 to $2.5 billion in 2008. Our business strategy is to continue to seek to expand our operations, including through possible acquisitions. If we are unable to finance continued growth, manage future expansion or hire and retain the personnel needed to manage our business successfully, then our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our growth in operations has placed significant demands on our management and other resources, which is likely to continue. Under these conditions, it is important for us to retain our existing management and to attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers, managers and employees. If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to future acquisitions, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Part of our growth strategy includes making acquisitions involving new markets and complementary products, services, technologies and businesses. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to such future acquisitions, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition prospects and negotiate and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions: • we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of an acquired company; • there could be inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; • we may experience difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; • we could be required to amortize the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and we also would be required to reduce our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition; • we could be exposed to unanticipated liabilities of acquired businesses; • our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and • we could lose key employees or customers of the acquired business. 21 Table of Contents There are risks associated with integrating and operating newly acquired businesses. We can give no assurance that if we do acquire any new business organizations in the future, we will successfully operate and integrate them. Many companies compete for acquisition opportunities in the PBM industry. Most of our competitors are companies that have significantly greater financial and management resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions necessary to the future success of our business. If we become subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may be liable for damages and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages. These include the performance of PBM services and the operation of our call centers and Web site. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. Disruption of our point of sale information system and transaction processing system, which relies on third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our operations utilize an electronic network connecting over 61,000 retail pharmacies to process third-party claims. This system is provided by a third-party adjudication vendor. Because claims are adjudicated in real time, systems availability and reliability are key to meeting customers’ service expectations. Any interruption in real time service, either through systems availability or telecommunications disruptions can significantly damage the quality of service we provide. Our PBM services also depend on third-party proprietary software to perform automated transaction processing. There can be no assurance that our business will not be harmed by service interruptions or software performance problems. The failure by our health plan clients to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our contracts with retail pharmacies which participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our clients. If our clients delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, lose clients, be required to pay substantial damages and make significant changes to our operations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We must devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we substantially comply with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Among the legislation and government regulations that could affect us as a provider of PBM services are the regulatory matters discussed in detail in under “Business—Government Regulation,” above. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to potential lawsuits under ERISA and the potential liabilities associated with being found to be a fiduciary of a health plan governed by ERISA. As a service provider to ERISA plans, we are subject to potential litigation under ERISA claims and could face potential liabilities if we are found to be acting as a fiduciary of a plan in carrying out the services for which we are under contract. While we do not believe that the general conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations set forth by ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with an ERISA plan sponsor to accept fiduciary responsibility and be named as a fiduciary for certain functions, recent litigation has revealed uncertainties with respect to whether, and under what circumstances, courts will find PBMs to be acting as plan fiduciaries. The potential impact of ERISA liability on our business operations is more fully described in the detailed discussion of ERISA regulation under “Business—Government Regulation—Federal Laws and Regulations Affecting the PBM Business/ ERISA Regulation,” above. The MMA subjects us to certain regulations and scrutiny, even in our limited roles as a subcontractor and mail service provider to Part D Plans. There are many uncertainties presented by the MMA, which is one of the reasons we have opted not to directly sponsor a PDP. However, we do contract with Medicare Part D Plans, as described under “Business—Government Regulation,” above. In the limited capacity of a subcontractor and as a mail service provider, we are indirectly subject to certain regulatory requirements, as more fully described in the detailed discussion of the MMA and its potential implications under “Business—Government Regulation,” above. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 