Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements: • The effect of general economic and other conditions in the markets in which we operate, both in the United States and internationally. Our operations in international markets are also affected by currency exchange and inflation risks. • The impact of competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis. Our competitors include the postal services of the U.S. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. Our industry is undergoing rapid consolidation, and the combining entities are competing aggressively for business. • The impact of complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other governmental laws and regulations, and the impact of new laws and regulations that may result from increased security concerns following the events of September 11, 2001. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations. • Strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees. Such actions may affect our ability to meet our customers needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions may adversely affect our ability to provide service. We may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service. The terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents • Possible disruption of supplies, or unanticipated changes in the prices, of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors. We require significant quantities of fuel and are exposed to the commodity price risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products. • Cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results due to decreased demand for our services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 