D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Business of Bezeq Bezeq’s competition from other telecommunications providers, and potential changes in the competitive environment and communications technologies, could adversely affect its business and our results of operations. Competition in domestic landline services in Israel is intensifying. Furthermore, we view the cellular telephony market as a market which, to a large extent, is an alternative to the fixed-line domestic telephony market. The companies that currently compete with Bezeq or that are likely to compete with it in the future enjoy much greater business flexibility than Bezeq, including an ability to cooperate with subsidiaries and associates and to market joint service bundles with them. The ability of Bezeq’s competitor HOT Telecom, or HOT, a partnership of the cable companies, to market service bundles (broadband Internet, telephony and cable television) with tariff flexibility, compared with the current restrictions on our ability to do so, harms Bezeq’s ability to compete. In addition, the cellular market in Israel is highly saturated and characterized by strong competition, and is subject to technological and regulatory developments. Bezeq’s operations in the cellular market, through its subsidiary, Pelephone, face fierce competition from the other cellular operators, Partner Communications Company Ltd. (a company controlled by Scailex Corporation Ltd.), or Partner, Cellcom Israel Ltd., a subsidiary of the IDB group, or Cellcom, and MIRS Communications Ltd., or MIRS, which has increased the size of the market and subscribers, but has caused an erosion of prices. There is a trend to legislate and impose standards on cellular operations relating to the environment, increased competition, tariffs, product liability and the methods used for repairing products, which regulations cou ld make it harder to construct cellular sites, impairing network quality, and increase the costs of services and marketing. Due to the intense competition in the cellular market, we may not be able to roll those costs in full onto consumers, which could erode our profits in the sector. Furthermore, regulatory intervention and the uncertainty it entails may have an adverse effect on our ability to plan our cellular business activity. The competition in the cellular and land-line markets has increased as a result of the introduction of number portability and we expect it to further increase upon implementation of the Ministry of Communications’ policy to encourage the entry of mobile virtual network operators into the cellular market. - 5 - Additionally, in the field of television broadcasts, in which Bezeq operates through DBS, which is characterized by a very high penetration rate and very strong competition, Bezeq is required to constantly invest in recruiting and retaining customers; and dealing with high transfer rates of customers between DBS and HOT and abandonment by costumers who view broadcast via the Internet and digital terrestrial television. The offer of a bundle of services containing multi-channel television, Internet and telephony, which are not offered in this format by DBS, as well as HOT’s high penetration rates for video on demand, or VOD, services also increase HOT’s ability to compete against DBS. DBS’s inability to offer VOD services in competition with HOT also harms DBS’s ability to compete. Telecommunications is a field characterized by frequent technological changes and a short economic life span for new technologies. These trends mean a constant lowering of entry barriers for new competitors, an increase in depreciation rates, and in certain cases, redundancy of technology and networks owned, which may cause Bezeq to incur impairment charges for investments which are still recorded on its statements of financial position. Competition in the voice, cellular and Internet services markets in Israel is intensifying. The main characteristic of market competition in 2009 was the merging of communication groups and offering of comprehensive services and products. Four main groups operate in the communications market in Israel today: the Bezeq group, the IDB group, the Partner group and the HOT group. There are four competitors in the international long distance voice services market in Israel, Bezeq International, 013 NetVision Ltd. (a member of the IDB group), or 013 NetVision, 012 Smile Telecom Ltd., or 012 Smile Telecom, and Xfone Ltd., or Xfone. In the ISP market there are a number of competitors, including Bezeq International, 012 Smile Telecom, 013 NetVision and Partner, and two minor niche players, and Bezeq bel ieves that HOT is preparing to enter this market. In the cellular services market in Israel there are four competing companies: Cellcom, Partner, Pelephone and MIRS. Pelephone faces fierce competition from such other cellular operators and such competition has resulted in an increase in the size of the market, the addition of new subscribers and an erosion of prices. Bezeq operates in a highly regulated telecommunications market which limits its flexibility in managing its business and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Bezeq operates in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits its flexibility in managing its business, mainly with respect to the land-line market. Bezeq is subject to government supervision and regulation relating to, among other things, licensing for activity, determining permitted areas of activity, determining tariffs, operation, competition, environment, payment of royalties, obligation to provide universal service, ability to hold its shares, relationships between Bezeq and its subsidiaries and prohibition to terminate or restrict its services (which may force Bezeq to provide services even when not economically feasible or against its interests). This supervision and regulation at times lead to the intervention of the State of Israel. Bezeq’s business and operations could be adversel y affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities. Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that Bezeq expects and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to Bezeq’s business and results of operations Bezeq may face difficulties in obtaining some of the building and environmental permits required for the establishment and operation of its network sites, which could have an adverse effect on the coverage, quality and capacity of its network. Bezeq, mainly with respect to its cellular operations through Pelephone, is subject to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 5766-2006, which regulates the emission of electromagnetic radiation from broadcast facilities. Bezeq is currently working to obtain permits to set up and operate its various broadcasting installations; however, the policies maintained by the various relevant entities and amendments to applicable statutes and standards could adversely impact the infrastructure of such installations and the regularity of the services using the infrastructure. As a result, Bezeq’s revenues from these services could be adversely affected. In addition, the establishment and operation of cellular antennas are subject to building permits from various planning and building committees, a process that involves a number of approvals from Israeli state entities and regulatory bodies. - 6 - The foregoing may impair the quality and capacity of Bezeq’s existing network and the deployment of the new network. Actual and alleged health risks related to cellular network sites and mobile telecommunication devices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Cellular network sites, handsets and accessories are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions. Bezeq takes steps to ensure that the levels of radiation emitted by these transmission facilities, equipment and devices do not exceed the levels of radiation permitted in the directives of the Israeli Ministry of Environment Protection (levels adopted in accordance with international standards). However, health risks may be found to exist and transmission sites or devices and equipment may emit more radiation than that allowed in radiation standards, causing a risk to health, which may have an adverse effect on our business and could result in a reduction in the use of cellular services, difficulty in renting sites, claims for physical and property damages in substantial amounts and attempts to exercise the deeds of indemnity that Bezeq deposited with the planning authorities pursuant to the Planning and Building Law. Bezeq’s third-party liability policy does not currently cover electromagnetic radiation. Bezeq’s tariffs for its services are subject to government control, which harms its ability to compete and results in an erosion of its tariffs, which adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s tariffs for its services are subject to government control. Some of these tariffs are stipulated in regulations and regulations also stipulate a formula for updating tariffs. Bezeq is restricted in its ability to give discounts on its principal services and to offer differential tariffs. Further, alternative service packages, which should provide an immediate alternative to the regular tariffs, are currently subject to an extended approval process, which often renders the alternative service package option moot. The foregoing factors harm Bezeq’s ability to compete and results in an erosion of its tariffs, which adversely impacts its business. On February 14, 2010, the Ministries of Communications and Finance announced the appointment of a committee that will consider a new tariff arrangement for Bezeq, including determining new tariffs relating to the provision of services in the wholesale market for fixed-line communications (including resale and the provision of access to infrastructure) and call completion tariffs in the fixed-line networks. In accordance with the committee’s appointment terms, any arrangement for regulated tariffs must also include a mechanism for updating the regulated tariffs. On May 4, 2010, Pelephone received notice from the Minister of Communications that he is considering reducing mobile fees for call completion and text messages completion commencing August 1, 2010, with a further gradual reduction in such rates. 160;On June 24, 2010 Pelephone filed its response to this proposal. The foregoing measures may result in erosion in revenue, which would adversely affect Bezeq’s business. Bezeq is subject to restrictions on intercompany relations with affiliated companies, which harms its ability to compete and adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s general license for fixed-line communication services received from the Minister of Communications obligates it to ensure that its relationships with its principal subsidiaries do not result in favoring them over their competitors. Separation is required between the managements of Bezeq and such other companies, as is separation between the financial and marketing systems, assets and employees, which causes high administration overheads. Bezeq is also subject to limitations with respect to the offering of joint service bundles with those companies, which adversely impacts its business, particularly in light of the recent entry into the market of communications companies competing directly with Bezeq in most of its areas of operation based on the provision of bundled services to the customer. Bezeq’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could expose it to material risk of loss or litigation. Bezeq’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, communications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism and similar events. Any of these events could expose Bezeq to a material risk of loss or litigation. While Bezeq currently has partially redundant systems, its does not have full redundancy, or alternative providers of hosting services. - 7 - Bezeq is currently deploying its new generation network, which to a large extent will replace its traditional networks. The set-up of a new network based on advanced technology involves operational and business risks, such as damaging the continuity and quality of the services provided to Bezeq’s customers, which could adversely impact its business. Bezeq’s operations in the cellular market are exposed to losses in the event of malfunctions in the terminal equipment that it sells, including various property risks and liabilities. Bezeq’s cellular information systems are networked throughout the country through designated communications lines and via the Internet, and its cellular business is highly dependent upon these systems. Wide-scale malicious harm or malfunction might adversely affect Bezeq’s cellular business and financial results. Also, Bezeq’s cellular communications network is deployed around the country through network core sites and antenna sites and it cellular business is totally dependent upon these systems. Damage caused by natural or other disasters, war or damage to the switching farm and/or servers used by B ezeq for its core cellular activities could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Bezeq’s cellular business uses two frequency ranges: 850 MHz and 2100 MHz. These frequencies are exposed to interruptions and could impair service quality of the networks that it operates. Bezeq’s operations and business may be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages and other labor related disputes. As part of its preparations for the intensifying competition in the market sector and for greater efficiency of its operations, Bezeq is continuing to formulate plans for organizational changes and a further reduction in its headcount. The implementation of these plans involves coordination with Bezeq’s employees and substantial costs, including the costs of early retirement in amounts exceeding existing agreements. The implementation of these plans has caused labor unrest, which could harm Bezeq’s regular business. In connection with the sale by Ap.Sb.Ar. Holdings Ltd. of the controlling interest in Bezeq to B Communications , the employees of Bezeq demanded additional compensation a new collective bargaining agreement. On March 25, 2010, Bezeq received a strike notice from the labor union that represents Bezeq’s employees. On May 2, 2010, the labor union announced that it will begin to initiate limited work stoppages. If Bezeq’s employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, Bezeq could experience a significant disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a new collective bargaining agreement could significantly increase Bezeq’s costs for wages and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are parties legal proceedings, including class actions, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums, the amount of which cannot be estimated. Class action claims can reach large amounts, as virtually all residents of Israel are consumers of Bezeq’s services and a claim that relates to a minor loss for a single consumer can become a material claim for Bezeq if it is certified as a class action applicable to all consumers or a significant portion of them. In addition, since Bezeq provides communications infrastructure as well as billing services to other licensees, parties suing those licensees in other class actions are also likely to try to involve Bezeq as a party to such proceedings. The market in which Bezeq operates is characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure and subscriber equipment and changing technology, which imposes a heavy financial burden on Bezeq. The market in which Bezeq operates is characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure and subscriber equipment and changing technology. The frequent technological changes in infrastructure and terminal equipment and the fierce competition in various market segments impose a heavy financial burden on the companies operating in the market, requiring them to update their infrastructure technology from time to time or to introduce new devices into the market at heavy cost. The development of new technologies can render existing technologies obsolete, resulting in the need for large monetary investments in order to retain a competitive position. Bezeq’s future success will depend on its ability to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new infrastructure and subscrib er equipment that keep pace with technological developments. If Bezeq is unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technology, it will be unable to compete effectively in the future and its business could be adversely affected. - 8 - Bezeq’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, inflation in Israel and the financial condition of the market in Israel and worldwide. Bezeq’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, inflation in Israel and the financial condition of the market in Israel and worldwide. Bezeq measures exposure to changes in exchange rates and inflation by the surplus or deficit of assets against liabilities, based on the type of linkage. In addition, Bezeq’s exposure to inflation changes in Israel is high. Bezeq’s also has exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relating primarily to its borrowings. Bezeq collects payments from part of its costumers in foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars. In addition, Bezeq consumes services from suppliers outside Israel and pays for these services in foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars. Changes in the exchange rates of the currencies in which Bezeq operates, primarily the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on Bezeq’s cash flow and profitability. Market and financial stability and the strength of the economy in Israel and worldwide have recently been subject to great volatility and led to a global economic slowdown. Although global economic conditions have begun to stabilize or improve, if the local market continues to be weak or weakens further, Bezeq’s business results could be harmed and its revenues may decline. Risks Related to B Communications B Communications has a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict its financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences. To facilitate the funding of the acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, B Communications entered into two financing agreements under which it received loans in a total principal amount of NIS 5.1 billion (approximately $1.35 billion). The financing agreements include certain financial covenants, including, among other things, the requirement that Bezeq maintain certain minimum shareholders equity and minimum ratio of shareholders’ equity. In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiary that directly holds the Bezeq interest must maintain a minimum ratio of debt to EBITDA and a debt service coverage ratio. The Bezeq shares acquired and all of such subsidiary’s other rights and assets (except additional shares of Bezeq that it might acquire in the future) have been pledged to the lenders as security under the loan agreement. In addition, B Communications has pledged to the lenders the entire equity its holds in the subsidiary it established to acquire the Bezeq shares and the debt owed by such subsidiary. B Communications’ ability to repay its debt may be affected by Bezeq’s distribution policy and the amount of dividends it receives from Bezeq. If B Communications is unable to meet its debt obligations or comply with its debt covenants, it could be forced to renegotiate or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. B Communications may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For more information regarding B Communications’ debt instruments and indebtedness, see Item 5.B “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Risks Related to GoldMind GoldMind faces significant competition from companies that provide eCommerce services, content, search services and advertising to Internet users and Internet service providers. GoldMind faces significant competition in every aspect of its business, principally from Google, Walla Communications Ltd. or Walla!, an Israeli company whose shares are listed on the TASE and which is controlled by Bezeq, Ynet, Tapuz and Nana10, which provide a variety of Internet content, eCommerce services and relevant advertising services. Some of GoldMind’s competitors have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers as well as more resources than it does. GoldMind’s competitors can use their experience and resources in a variety of ways, including acquisitions, research and development and by competing more aggressively for advertisers and online publishers. Some of GoldMind’s competitors may also have a greater ability to attract and retain users than it does because they operate larger Internet properties with a broader range of content, products and services. - 9 - GoldMind may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of its Internet activities. GoldMind hosts a wide variety of services that enable individuals and businesses to exchange information, generate content, advertise products and services, conduct business and engage in various online activities on an international basis. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for the activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims may be brought against GoldMind for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud or other theories based on the nature and content of information that it provides links to, that may be posted online or generated by its users, or with respect to auctioned materials. GoldMind is susceptible to claims arising from its websites that are geared to other cultures and are in other languages that it cannot easily review or may have difficulty in fully understanding. GoldMind’s defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of its management and other resources. GoldMind generally does not exercise editorial control over the content appearing on websites that its users may be directed to from GoldMind’s websites and may be subject to claims that it has not exercised sufficient control over such content. In the event that GoldMind is found to be responsible for any such liability or required to pay for any damages resulting from any such responsibility, its business may be adversely affected. GoldMind also enters into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, or content on its websites and portals. GoldMind may be subject to claims concerning these products, services or content by virtue of its involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if it does not host, operate, provide or provide access to these products, services or content. While its agreements with these parties often provide that GoldMind will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by GoldMind contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against it. For example, GoldMind offers web-based email services which expose it to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email, or interruptions or delays in email service. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even to the extent that the claims do not ultimately result in liability. GoldMind generates the majority of its revenue from eCommerce. Changes in general economic conditions may have an adverse effect on its eCommerce operational results. During 2008, we experienced a significant reduction in our on-line advertisement revenues, as we terminated some of our substantial media activities, including our prior MSN activity in July 2008. Since the termination of our MSN activity, GoldMind has generated the majority of its revenue from eCommerce. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, GoldMind generated approximately 55% and 77% of its total revenue, respectively, from eCommerce. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or prolonged economic slowdown, may reduce the demand for our products and otherwise adversely affect our sales. For example, economic forces, including general economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in disposable consumer income and r eductions in discretionary spending, may cause consumers to defer purchases of products offered on our eCommerce sites, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and our overall financial condition and operating results. GoldMind generates a substantial part of its revenue from online advertising and a reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause GoldMind’s revenue and operating results to decline. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, GoldMind generated approximately 45% and 23% of its total revenue, respectively, from online advertising. GoldMind’s ability to continue to retain and grow its advertising revenue depends upon, among other things, its ability to maintain current users and to continue to attract new users to its websites, to offer advertisers a diverse range of vertically and demographically targeted audiences and to broaden its relationships with advertising agencies and small and medium-size advertisers. In many cases, advertisers can terminate their contracts with GoldMind at any time. In addition, advertisers may make smaller or shorter-term purchases, and market prices for online advertising may decrease due to competition or other factors. Advertisers will not continue to do business with GoldMind if their advertisements on GoldMind’s websites do not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if GoldMind does not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. If GoldMind is unable to remain competitive and provide value to its advertisers, it may lose its existing advertisers and fail to attract new advertisers, which would cause its revenue to decrease and have a negative effect on our business. - 10 - Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data and consumer protection could adversely affect GoldMind’s business. Local and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that GoldMind receives from its users and partners. In addition, GoldMind posts on its websites its own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by GoldMind to comply with its posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, local, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against it by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on its business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with GoldMind’s policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in GoldMind and ultimately in a loss of users, partners or advertisers, which could adversely affect its business. In addition, consumer protection in the area of eCommerce and advertising is heavily regulated in Israel and the consumer protection laws are constantly evolving. If we do not comply with consumer protection laws, we could be subject to sanctions and litigation, which could adversely affect GoldMind’s business. Risks Related to Internet Gold We have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict our financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2009, we had borrowings of NIS 463 million ($122.6 million) under our lines of credit with five banking institutions in Israel. The lines of credit provide for interest at annual rates ranging from 1.9 % to 2.34 % and an average rate of 2.1%. In connection with such credit lines, we agreed not to pledge any of our assets to any person. In addition, pursuant to the terms of such credit lines, we are required to maintain our ownership position in our subsidiary B Communications above 51%. These credit lines do not have a specified maturity date and they may be called by each bank at any time. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to renegotiate or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell ass ets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For more information regarding our indebtedness, see Item 5.B “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we, B Communications or any other member of the Eurocom group subject to the control permit for the acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq fails to comply with such permit or other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq, the control permit could be revoked and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. As part of B Communications’ acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we, B Communications, its indirect fully owned-subsidiary which holds the Bezeq interest, or SP2, its wholly-owned subsidiary that directly owns such subsidiary and other members of the Eurocom group were granted a permit to control Bezeq, pursuant to the Communications Law and Communications Order. The control permit includes several conditions, including, among others, the requirement that SP2 be controlled exclusively by the other parties to the control permit and that the parties to the control permit hold not less than 30% of any type of means of control of Bezeq and SP2. In addition, the control permit requires that a certain percentage of SP2 be held at all times by an “Israeli Party,” as defined in the Communicat ions Order. The control permit also includes certain notice requirements regarding changes in the composition of the board of directors and certain holdings in us and Internet Gold. If we, B Communications or any other member of the Eurocom group subject to the control permit fails to comply with the terms of the control permit or other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq, such permit could be revoked and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. - 11 - If we and B Communications do not maintain control of Bezeq, we and B Communications may each be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, defines an investment company as any issuer that is, holds itself out as being, or proposes to be, primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities and Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act) having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. However, an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company if no more than 45% of the value of such issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) consists of, and no more than 45% of such issuer’s net income after taxes (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) is derived from, securities other than, among other things, securities issued by companies which are controlled primarily by such issuer. Primary control is presumed if the issuer owns over 25% of the controlled company’s voting securities and the issuer has control greater than that of any other person. Accordingly, so long as we and B Communications maintain control of Bezeq, we and B Communications will not be deemed an investment company. If we and B Communications were to no longer maintain the control of Bezeq, we and B Communications could, among other things, be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being subject to the Investment Company Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. An investment company that is organized under the laws of a foreign country may not register as an investment company, or publicly offer its securities through interstate commerce in the United States, unless the company applies to the Securities and Exchange Commission for an order permitting the company to register under the Investment Company Act, and to make a public offering in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue an order granting the application if it finds that, by reason of special circumstances or arrangements, it is both legally and practically feasible effectively to enforce the provisions of the Investment Company Act against the issuer, and further finds that granting the application is otherwise consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. If we and B Communications were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we and B Communications would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with certain affiliates, reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements, and meeting these requirements would be costly, if at all possible. We may be unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. Beginning in the 2010 second quarter, we began consolidating Bezeq’s financials results into our financial statements following B Communications’ acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq. Effective for the year ended December 31, 2011, our management report on internal control over financial reporting must include our assessment with respect to Bezeq’s internal control over financial reporting. Prior to the acquisition by B Communications of the controlling interest, Bezeq was not subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may in the future identify a material weakness in Bezeq’s internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory auth orities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. - 12 - Risks Related to Our Relationship with Eurocom Communications Ltd. Because Eurocom Communications Ltd. controls the majority of the voting power of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of all shareholder votes. Eurocom Communications Ltd, or Eurocom Communications, owned 70.79% of our outstanding shares as of June 30, 2010. Mr. Shaul Elovitch, the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of our parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, is able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. For as long as Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch indirectly have a controlling interest in our shares, they will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch have a controlling interest in our company, they will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of d irectors (except outside directors), and to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because the interests of Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by him with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. See Item 10B. “Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 7B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions.” Conflicts of interest may arise between Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Eurocom Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Eurocom Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. The ownership interests of Eurocom Communications in our ordinary shares could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Eurocom Communications, disagreements over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. In addition, Eurocom Communications may take an opportunity for itself or preclude us from taking advantage of a corporate opportunity; and · Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Eurocom Communications or other companies within the Eurocom group may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of our independent directors or a committee of disinterested directors and in some instances a vote of shareholders, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. - 13 - Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results, which beginning in the 2010 second quarter include the operations of Bezeq; · global economic conditions; · price movements in the market price of Bezeq’s ordinary shares · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · regulatory changes that impact pricing of services and competition in Bezeq’s markets; · changes in market valuations of other communications companies; · announcements of technological innovations or new services by Bezeq or its competitors; · announcements by Bezeq or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of Bezeq’s intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or Bezeq; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our ordinary shares; and · stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales or distributions of our ordinary shares by Eurocom Communications could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. Eurocom Communications may sell a portion of our ordinary shares that it owns, including pursuant to demand registration rights described elsewhere in this annual report, or distribute those shares to its shareholders. Sales or distributions by Eurocom Communications of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Eurocom Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any of our ordinary shares so long as it maintains a controlling interest in us. We cannot assure you that Eurocom Communications will maintain its ownership of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends to our shareholders and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. B Communications’ indirect subsidiary SP2, which directly holds Bezeq’s shares and our principal source of revenues and income, is subject to limitations on the payment of dividends under the terms of the financing agreements entered into in connection with its acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investments. - 14 - We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. There is a risk that we may be treated as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the s ale or exchange of investment property; and cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. shareholders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10E. Additional Information - Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to the Operations of Bezeq and our Company in Israel Bezeq and GoldMind conducts their operations in Israel and their businesses focuses on the Israeli audience, therefore our results of operations may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. We and Bezeq are incorporated and based in the State of Israel and we and Bezeq derive substantially all of our revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on Bezeq’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of Bezeq’s and our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Bezeq’s operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of its executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in Bezeq’s operations could adversely affect its business. Bezeq may be restricted in the conduct of its operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect its business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other governmental authorities may issue various instructions regarding the use of Bezeq’s network, including the use of the network by the Israeli security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect Bezeq’s business operations. - 15 - Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations of the NIS against foreign currencies and in the consumer price index in Israel. We report our financial results in NIS. Bezeq receives payments in NIS for most of its sales. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and the U.S. dollar may affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, when the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS depreciation against foreign currencies, some of our NIS expenses increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, a substantial depreciation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar could substantially increase the cost of our services to Israelis, who pay us in NIS, and may result in subscriber cancellations and a reduction in Internet use and eCommerce in Israel. From time to time, we engage in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on our cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. We recognize freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in our statements of financial position and we measure those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in ou r reported net income on a quarterly basis. Further, as the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, our debentures are linked to the Israeli consumer price index, any increase in the Israeli Consumer Price Index will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. Because we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increas es in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who, under our articles of association, has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. - 16 - Provisions of Israeli law, the licenses of Bezeq and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Following the acquisition by B Communications of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we and our shareholders are required to comply with the Israeli Communications Law (Telecommunications and Broadcasting), 1982, or the Communications Law, the Communications Order (Determination Of Essential Service Provided By “Bezeq” The Israel Telecommunication Corp., Limited), 5757-1997, or the Communications Order, and regulations promulgated by the Ministry of Communications. Pursuant to the Communications Order, we were required to obtain the prior written consent of the Prime Minister of Israel and the Israeli Minister of Communications in order to acquire the controlling interest in Bezeq. Under the Communications Order, no person may acquire, directly or indirect ly, the ability to exercise “significant influence” over Bezeq or 5% or more of any particular class of means of control in Bezeq, nor may any person, together with any other person, appoint the general manager of Bezeq or cause the election or appointment of any director of Bezeq, without the prior written consent of the Prime Minister of Israel and the Israeli Minister of Communications. Subject to certain exceptions, prior written approval of such Ministers is also required to increase the holdings or other rights in excess of those determined in the initial approval, including by means of an agreement (including a voting agreement). Furthermore, under the Communications Order, no person may transfer control, “significant influence” or means of control in Bezeq to another, if, as a result of the transfer, the holdings of the transferee would require approval pursuant to the Communications Law or Comm unications Order and the transferee is not in possession of the requisite approval. For the foregoing purposes, “significant influence” means the ability to significantly influence the activity of a corporation, whether alone or together with or through others, directly or indirectly, as a result of holding means of control in that corporation or in another corporation, including ability derived from the corporation’s articles of association, a written, oral or other kind of agreement, or from any other source, excluding solely as a result of the performance of an office holder’s duties in the corporation. In this context, holding 25% of our means of control is presumed to confer significant influence. “Means of control” means the right to vote at a general meeting of the company, to appoint a director or general manager of the company, to participate in the profits of the company or a share of the remaining assets of the company after paym ent of its debts upon liquidation. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as provisions establishing a classified board. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see “Item 6C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees –Board Practices – Approval of Related Party Transactions Under Israeli Law” and Item 10E. “Taxation -Israeli Tax Considerations.” These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and most of our directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. - 17 - 