D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risk Related to Internet Gold Generally We have experienced significant growth, which may be difficult to sustain and has placed a significant strain on our resources and we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain our revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, we acquired 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. With this acquisition, our total assets grew to approximately NIS 1.7 billion ($400.9 million) as at December 31, 2006 from NIS 502 million as at December 31, 2005, and our revenues grew, on a pro forma basis, to NIS 1.1 billion ($261.6 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 911.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We experienced significant growth prior to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, as our revenues grew to NIS 408.4 million ($96.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 288.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our organic growth and the recent acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on our management as well as our operational, administrative and financial resources and our internal controls. The demand on our network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with our expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as we expand our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect our ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase our profitability. We do not expect to sustain our recent revenue growth rate, which may reduce our share price. Our revenues increased at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 32.1% from NIS 177.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to NIS 408.4 million ($96.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods. You should not rely on our revenue growth in any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, we may not have sufficient resources to execute our business objectives and our share price may decline. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter as a rapidly growing communication services provider. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brands, we may be unable to attract enough customers to our services to maintain or increase our market share. We believe that we must maintain and strengthen awareness of our 012 Smile.Com and Smile. Media brands. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brands, we may be unable to attract additional customers and increase our market share. Brand recognition may become even more important in the future if competition increases in the communications market. We intend to continue to pursue a brand-enhancement strategy, which may include mass market and multimedia advertising, promotional programs, public relations activities and joint marketing programs. These initiatives will involve significant expenses. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, we may not be able to attract additional customers, our sales and marketing expenses may never be recovered and we may be unable to increase future revenues. - 4 - We are reliant on our management team and a loss of any key member of our management could have adverse effect on our future. Our future development is dependent upon our present and prospective management team, including our chief executive officer, Eli Holtzman who also serves as chief executive officer of Smile.Media and vice chairman of 012 Smile.Com, Doron Turgeman, our chief financial officer who also serves as deputy chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Smile.Media, Stella Handler, the chief executive officer of 012 Smile.Com, and Doron Ilan, the chief financial officer and vice president finance of 012 Smile.Com. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our officers or employees. The loss of any key member of our management for any reason may have an adverse effect on our future. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified key management and employees. Competition for highly-skilled engineers and managers is intense in the industry in which we operate, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified engineers and project mangers to fulfill our current or future needs. This could adversely impact our results of operations or financial performance. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or successfully defend infringement claims. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, service marks, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the image of our brands may be harmed and our business may suffer. The protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade secrets and other intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect these assets may not adequately protect our rights, or others may independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Such events could substantially diminish the value of our technology and property which could adversely affect our business. Our share price has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — changes in market valuations of other communications companies; — announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; - 5 - — future sales of our ordinary shares; and — stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards and could limit our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the future. Third parties may in the future assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights or failure to maintain confidentiality of user data. In addition, third parties may make trademark infringement and related claims against us over the display of search results triggered by search terms that include trademark terms. As we expand our business and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement claims. In the event that there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other third-party rights such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to change our business practices in the future and limit our ability to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers or affiliates may require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. The occurrence of any of these results could harm our brand and negatively impact our operating results. Future sales or distributions of our ordinary shares by Eurocom Communications Ltd. could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. Our parent company, Eurocom Communications Ltd., may sell all or part of the ordinary shares that it owns or distribute those shares to its shareholders, including pursuant to demand registration rights described elsewhere in this annual report. Sales or distributions by Eurocom Communications of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Eurocom Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any of our ordinary shares. Consequently, we cannot assure you that Eurocom Communications will maintain its ownership of our ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As an Israeli company listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. - 6 - Risks Related to Our Communications Division We may not be successful in integrating the operations of 012 Golden Lines and may incur substantial costs in the future in connection with our integration efforts. Our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of 012 Golden Lines and Smile.Communications is uncertain. For the year ended December 31, 2006, 012 Golden Lines had revenues of approximately NIS 697 million ($ 165 million) and as a result of the acquisition, 012 Smile.Com more than doubled in size. We have begun to integrate the operations of 012 Golden Lines with those of Smile.Communications according to a plan that is intended to result in cost savings and other synergies. As part of this plan, we will need to, among other things, integrate the various network platforms, operating and billing systems and other software of the combined company, and consolidate the workforce and facilities, while continuing to provide quality services and accurate bills to the combined customer base. 012 Smile.Com’s goal is to optimize its ability to provide communications services to its customers, while controlling costs and improving the profitability of the integrated business. However, 012 Smile.Com may not be successful in implementing its integration plan and may incur substantial costs, including unanticipated costs, in connection with its integration efforts. For example, if the integration of the 012 Golden Lines’ and Smile.Communication’s billing systems or the consolidation of call centers is not successful, 012 Smile.Com could experience an adverse effect on its customer service, customer churn rate and an increase in the cost of maintaining these systems going forward. We could also experience operational failures related to billing and collection of revenue from our customers, which, depending on the severity of the failure, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The demands on 012 Smile.Com’s management with respect to the integration efforts have impacted the amount of time available to them to operate the business and plan for and implement the growth strategy of 012 Smile.Com. Moreover, the new management team has worked together for a limited period of time and there can be no assurance that they will be effective in implementing our integration plan or growth strategy. If we are not able to successfully implement our integration plan, we may not achieve the expected benefits, including the expected cost savings and synergies, from the 012 Golden Lines acquisition and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 012 Smile.Com has experienced significant growth, which has placed a substantial strain on our resources. The failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain 012 Smile.Com’s revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, 012 Smile.Com acquired 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. With this acquisition, the revenues of our communications division grew on a pro forma basis, to NIS 1,038.5 million ($245.8 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 869.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. 012 Smile.Com experienced significant growth prior to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, as its revenue grew to NIS 342.5 million ($ 81.1 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 246.6million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The organic growth of 012 Smile.Com and the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on 012 Smile.Com’s operational, administrative and financial resources. The demand on 012 Smile.Com’s network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with its expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as it expands. Another part of 012 Smile.Com’s growth strategy is managing and reducing the costs associated with delivering its services, including recurring service costs such as communications and customer support costs as well as costs incurred to add new customers, such as sales and marketing, installation and hardware costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect our ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase our profitability. - 7 - Changes in the regulatory and legal compliance environment could adversely affect 012 Smile.Com’s business. 012 Smile.Com operates in a highly regulated market, which limits its flexibility in managing its business. 012 Smile.Com is subject to regulation regarding communications licenses, antitrust, and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. The business and operations of 012 Smile.Com could be adversely affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications of the State of Israel, or the Ministry, as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities, such as the following: — Deregulating the monopoly-based restrictions imposed on Bezeq The Israel Telecommunication Corp., Limited, Israel's incumbent telephony operator, and its affiliates; — Deregulating the restriction imposed the Bezeq group, including on D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., which operates under the trade name YES, Israel’s sole satellite television service provider, that prevents it from providing voice over broadband, or VoB, services; — Deregulating the restrictions imposed on cellular operators that currently prevent them from providing international telephony services; — Changing the regulation that requires the incumbent infrastructure providers to allow us “open access” enabling us to provide broadband data and traditional voice services, or deregulating the restrictions that currently prevent them from charging us for the use of their infrastructure; — Changing the regulations affecting our interconnection arrangements with other operators; — Changing call termination tariffs; — Establishing regulations relating to initiation of WiMAX services and installation of WiMAX antennae, including environmental and land use regulation; — Limiting the prices that we may charge our customers; — Broadening or increasing the range of revenues on which royalties are paid; and — Changing the regulations affecting our international and local telephony business. The current legislation in Israel grants the Ministry extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to 012 Smile.Com’s business, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions, such as fines. As a result, the interpretation and implementation of laws and regulations as well as provisions of its licenses are subject to the administrative discretion of the Ministry. Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that we expect and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to our business. The regulatory limitations on Bezeq could change in the future and result in increased competition, and a reduction in 012 Smile.Com’s revenues from interconnect fees. Bezeq is currently subject to several regulatory limitations on its ability to provide bundled service offerings, restrictions to entry into the VoB market and supervised tariffs. Under its license, Bezeq is also subject to the principle of structural separation in the provision of various communication services. Once Bezeq’s market share falls below certain thresholds, Bezeq may apply to the Ministry to begin providing bundled services, which could potentially include local and international telephony, broadband Internet access, ISP services, cellular services and multi-channel TV. Bezeq may also apply to the Ministry to offer discounts on its supervised tariffs in the domestic fixed telephony market. - 8 - Bezeq pays 012 Smile.Com interconnect fees with respect to calls being made from Bezeq fixed-lines to 012 Smile.Com’s VoB lines. Bezeq has raised the claim that it should not be paying such interconnect fees because 012 Smile.Com uses its infrastructure. Although the Ministry has determined that Bezeq should pay interconnect fees for calls originated from Bezeq fixed-lines to 012 Smile.Com’s lines at the same tariff as we pay Bezeq, this determination will be reviewed by the Ministry in February 2009 and there is no certainty that the Ministry will not reverse its determination that Bezeq should continue to pay such interconnect fees at the then current rate or at all. Further deregulation of various segments of the communication services market may allow Bezeq to be released from regulatory limitations, allowing it to bundle services and compete directly with us. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are not allowed to enter the VoB market until Bezeq’s market share falls under 85% of the fixed-line telephony market. We do not know when this will occur or that the Ministry will not allow Bezeq International, which has appealed the prohibition to the Supreme Court of Israel, to enter the market prior to its occurrence. Furthermore, the Ministry of Communications will, in not later than one year, examine the competitive position of YES. We cannot be certain that the Ministry will not allow YES to enter the VoB market if its competitive position deteriorates. If the Ministry releases Bezeq from the prevailing regulatory limitations, it would enjoy a competitive advantage because it will be able to bundle services through its affiliates or in conjunction with a third party. This could result in Bezeq becoming an even stronger competitor. Bezeq currently has an advantageous position in the market because it has a dominant presence in all segments and can easily provide its customers with access to a great variety of services. 012 Smile.Com depends on maintaining and renewing its existing regulatory licenses in order to fully conduct its business. 012 Smile.Com’s inability to maintain and renew its existing licenses would negatively impact our results of operations. 012 Smile.Com’s ability to provide its broadband data and traditional voice services depends on its ability to maintain and renew the licenses it has received from the Ministry. Although 012 Smile.Com is entitled to renew its licenses, such licenses are subject to many terms and conditions. Any renewal or extension is subject to the discretion of the Ministry and may be renewed or extended, if at all, on terms materially different to the terms under which 012 Smile.Com now operates. Any such change in the terms and conditions of these licenses may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Such licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Ministry if 012 Smile.Com defaults under or violates their terms. Each license requires 012 Smile.Com to adhere to certain requirements, which include the scope of services to be provided under the license, the amount of royalties to be paid to the Ministry, technical standards employed in providing the services, maintenance and support procedures and protocols, communications with customers and information to be provided to the Ministry on a regular basis. The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents, Israeli citizens and residents must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and must have the right to appoint at least 20% of our directors. In addition, our licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. If these requirements are not complied with, we will be found to be in breach with our licenses and our licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked and we may also incur substantial fines. See “Government Regulation – Licenses and Applications.” The DFL license granted to 012 Smile.Com’s wholly-owned subsidiary, 012 Telecom, in February 2007 requires us to provide the subscribers to our local telephony services the ability to make international calls through the international operator in Israel of their choice. Currently, due to technical limitations, our subscribers can dial abroad only through our system, but we expect to be able to resolve the issue by October 2007. We have received a letter from the Ministry requesting our response to a complaint it received from one subscriber. While we believe that 012 Smile.Com is currently substantially in compliance with all of the material requirements of its licenses, the technical standards used to measure these requirements as well as other license provisions are subject to interpretation and we cannot be certain of 012 Smile.Com’s compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that 012 Smile.Com’s licenses will not be revoked, will be extended when necessary, or, if extended, on what terms an extension may be granted. - 9 - The communications industry is dynamic and 012 Smile.Com will need to seek additional licenses, including the license to provide WiMAX services on a commercial basis, in the future. The inability to obtain any such new license may negatively impact our growth opportunities and results of operations. The communications industry is constantly evolving. New technologies and processes may require additional licenses from the Ministry. We cannot be certain that any such future licenses, including the license to provide WiMAX services on a commercial basis, will be granted to us or to our competitors and not to us, or on what terms they may be granted to 012 Smile.Com or to its competitors. 012 Smile.Com’s ability to introduce new services, such as those based on WiMAX technologies, depends upon its ability to receive the appropriate licenses. The introduction of any new licensed services under an existing license must be authorized by the Ministry and is subject to a review period of up to 60 days, which may be extended by the Ministry. Such review may cause 012 Smile.Com to lose critical time in bringing new services to market. Furthermore, the Ministry may refuse to allow 012 Smile.Com to introduce such new services or make the introduction of the services subject to various conditions. 012 Smile.Com is also considering the expansion of its service offerings to include Internet protocol television, or IPTV, as well as mobile virtual network operator, or MVNO, but have not yet applied for or received a license from the Ministry to provide such services. 012 Smile.Com’s inability to obtain any new license, including the license to provide WiMAX services, IPTV or MVNO on a commercial basis or introduce new services under an existing license, may negatively impact its growth opportunities and results of operations. 012 Smile.Com operates in the highly competitive communications industry with existing participants and potential participants that have significant resources and customers, and a regulatory authority that has encouraged new entrants, which could intensify price competition and limit its ability to maintain or increase its market share. 012 Smile.Com is subject to intense competition, which we expect will continue in the future. Moreover, 012 Smile.Com’s services are subject to regulation by the Ministry, whose policy is to encourage new entrants and not limit the number of licenses, which may continue to increase competition and may lead to further reductions in prices and fees charged to customers. The Ministry has encouraged new entrants into the broadband access market. HOT, the incumbent local cable television services provider that offers cable-modem access, has been legally permitted since March 2002 to provide Internet services through its affiliates, but, has chosen not to do so. While we cannot predict if or when HOT will become an Internet service provider, or ISP, its entry into the market could significantly harm our competitive position in the broadband access market. The Ministry has also encouraged new entrants into the international telephony services sub-sector. Israel’s cellular operators are currently not licensed to provide international telephony services. If this situation were to change, competition would be further intensified and could require 012 Smile.Com to lower its prices, grant incentives to customers, increase selling and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs and could also result in increased customer churn. Furthermore, recently, the operations of several of our competitors, NetVision, Barak and GlobCall were combined into a single entity by The IDB Group, a large Israeli investment and industrial group. This development could create a more formidable competitor offering bundled international telephony, broadband Internet access, data, local telephony and mobile services, which could harm the competitive position of 012 Smile.Com. We expect other competitors, including companies that are not presently engaged in local and international telephony, to provide VoB services, as well as WiMAX services when they receive appropriate licenses from the Ministry, which could adversely impact 012 Smile.Com’s ability to increase its market share. - 10 - 012 Smile.Com also competes against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype (a service of eBay Inc.), which is not subject to licensing restrictions in Israel, as well as independent voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, service providers which may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share and may offer their services at lower prices or for free. Such competitive environment could intensify price competition and limit 012 Smile.Com’s ability to maintain or increase our market share of the local telephony market. A reduced demand for hubbing services by one or more of 012 Smile.Com’s significant hubbing services customers could significantly reduce its hubbing services revenues. The profitability of 012 Smile.Com’s hubbing services business is driven by the needs of its customers whose demand for hubbing services is constantly fluctuating. As a result, the hubbing services business is subject to a high degree of volatility and could result in fluctuations in 012 Smile.Com’s reported revenues and net income on a quarterly basis. A significant reduction in demand for hubbing services by one or more of 012 Smile.Com’s principal hubbing services customers would have an adverse affect on our operating results and profitability. 012 Smile.Com operates in a market which already exhibits maturity and high user penetration and it may have to offer price reductions and increase marketing efforts to attract and retain customers. The Israeli communications market is mature, with both traditional voice and broadband services being particularly competitive segments of the communications market, as demonstrated by the estimated 91%household penetration of fixed telephone lines and 62% broadband access penetration rate as of June 30, 2006 according to the Ministry’s publications. 012 Smile.Com’s future revenues will depend significantly on its ability to retain existing customers, to sell those customers additional services, such as local telephony, and to attract new customers from other providers. In addition, the competitive market environment has required it in the past and may require us in the future to adopt an aggressive marketing policy in order to attract a greater number of broadband customers. If adopted in the future, 012 Smile.Com cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful. Price reductions caused by increased competition, as well as the expenses associated with the marketing efforts required to attract and retain customers, may have a negative impact on our profitability. We may be subject to fines or face claims of being in violation of the Communications Law or in violation of our license in connection with the requirement to provide number portability. As a result of an amendment to the Communications Law in March 2005, international, cellular and landline telephone operators were required to implement number portability by September 1, 2006. Number portability would permit the local telephony subscribers and the cellular subscribers to change to another network operator (landline to landline or cellular to cellular) without having to change their telephone numbers. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and coordinate the transition to number portability by September 1, 2006, currently none of the operators has implemented number portability. A petition has been filed with the Israeli High Court of Justice for the issuance of an order to the Government of Israel and the Ministry to show cause for their failure to act immediately in order to initiate an amendment to the Communications Law postponing the deadline for the implementation of number portability. If a reasonable extension to the deadline is not effected or other adequate relief is not granted, we may be exposed to sanctions and legal claims, including class action lawsuits by subscribers. On May 24, 2007, all of the cellular and landline telephony operators, including 012 Smile.Com, were notified by the Ministry that failure to implement the number portability program constituted a continued violation of the applicable licenses (both international and DFL licenses) and that it is considering to impose a fine of NIS 2,032,750 ($481,124) and additional daily fines of NIS 6,450 ($1,527) beginning May 25, 2007, with respect to each of our two licenses. 012 Smile.Com, as well as the other operators, were given the opportunity to respond to this notification by July 5, 2007. To date, the Ministry has not implemented the fines. 012 Smile.Com is currently conducting tests of its number portability program and expects to be able to provide number portability by December 1, 2007, the date that the cellular and landline telephony operators have targeted as the initiation date for number portability in Israel. - 11 - 012 Smile.Com’s VoB services are not the same as traditional telephony services and may not be adopted by mainstream customers. 012 Smile.Com’s VoB services are not the same as traditional telephony services. The quality of VoB service is dependent to a great measure on the quality of broadband access provided by Bezeq and HOT over which we have no control. Among the differences between 012 Smile.Com’s VoB service and traditional telephony services are: — If 012 Smile.Com's customers experience a loss of power, their services will be interrupted; — 012 Smile.Com'sVoB services will be interrupted if its customers experience interruption in broadband access; and — Depending on the quality of the broadband access provided to 012 Smile.Com’s customers, they may experience lower call quality than that experienced over traditional fixed-line telephones, including static, echoes and delays in transmission. The growth of 012 Smile.Com VoB business is dependent on the adoption of its services by mainstream customers and therefore the rate of adoption may have a significant effect on our growth. If customers do not accept these differences between VoB service and traditional telephony service, they may choose to continue using traditional telephony services or may choose to return to services provided by traditional telephone companies. The operations of 012 Smile.Com depend on its ability to successfully expand its network and integrate new technologies and equipment into its network. Accordingly,012 Smile.Com faces an increased risk of system failure and difficulty in making new features available. Capacity constraints within 012 Smile.Com’s networks and those of its suppliers have occurred in the past and will likely occur in the future. As the number of its customers using broadband data services and the amount and type of information they wish to transmit over the Internet increases, 012 Smile.Com may need to expand and upgrade its technology, processing systems and network infrastructure, which could be expensive and involve substantial management resources. In order to preserve the current service level to an increasing number of broadband data customers, 012 Smile.Com may be required to extend its bandwidth by an additional 5%-10% in 2007. We do not know whether 012 Smile.Com will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of any such increases, or expand and upgrade 012 Smile.Com’s systems and infrastructure in a timely and cost-efficient manner. The broadband data services and the traditional voice services markets are subject to rapid technological change, which could adversely affect 012 Smile.Com’s ability to compete. The markets in which 012 Smile.Com competes are characterized by rapidly changing and converging technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. New services and technologies may be superior to the services or technologies that 012 Smile.Com uses and may render its services and technologies obsolete or require it to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its services or technologies. The development and expansion of 012 Smile.Com’s services is dependent upon adopting new technologies and updating its systems to meet new standards. This can be a lengthy process involving long and complex evaluations and decision-making procedures that can continue over a number of months or even years. 012 Smile.Com’s future success will depend on its ability to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of its broadband data and traditional voice services in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. The cost of implementing major infrastructure upgrade projects may fluctuate due to a number of variables over which 012 Smile.Com has little or no control and, even though it estimates the cost of such projects based on its previous experience, costs may exceed its estimations. Such fluctuations may be due to a lengthy or complex implementation process and/or the lack of commitment of sufficient resources of, or delays caused by, the ultimate supplier and could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial performance. - 12 - 012 Smile.Com may not be successful in its introduction of WiMAX services, which could adversely affect our growth strategy. In March 2007, 012 Smile.Com was awarded the first technology experimental license to conduct fixed WiMAX trials in Israel and it intends to initiate fixed WiMAX trials in the near future. 012 Smile.Com intends to test “Fixed WiMAX” technology, which delivers transmissions via a wireless broadband connection from a single point to multi-points. If 012 Smile.Com is not successful in its introduction of fixed WiMAX services or such services do not achieve customer acceptance, our growth strategy may be adversely affected. 012 Smile.Com may not be able to retain its present customers who use its legacy 015 international telephony prefix when it attempts to transfer them to its 012 international telephony prefix in accordance with regulatory requirements. In connection with 012 Smile.Com obtaining regulatory approval for the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, the Ministry required 012 Smile.Com to cease offering its legacy 015 international telephony prefix by January 2008, but the Ministry will consider, upon request, extending the date in light of the competitive situation in the international telephony market. For the year ended December 31, 2006, 012 Smile.Com had NIS 160 million ($37.9 million) of revenues from this service and has substantially retained this customer base. 012 Smile.Com may not be able to retain the customers who continue to use the 015 prefix when it attempts to transfer them to the 012 prefix prior to January 2008, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial performance. 012 Smile.Com is dependent on certain suppliers and, if any of its arrangements with these suppliers is terminated, it may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms. 012 Smile.Com relies on a number of third-party computer systems, networks and service providers, including local and international telephony and cable companies. All broadband access by its customers is, and will continue to be, connected through the infrastructure of local access providers, Bezeq and HOT, and is dependent on the continuation of the open access policy of the Ministry. 012 Smile.Com’s business and its ability to provides services to customers are dependent on the infrastructure of Bezeq and HOT. At present, the Ministry does not permit HOT and Bezeq to charge for use of their infrastructure. If such restriction is deregulated, 012 Smile.Com may incur substantial costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial performance. 012 Smile.Com’s ISP services are also dependent on the communications infrastructure owned and maintained by local access providers. Bezeq has suffered work stoppages on several occasions in recent years as a result of conflicts with its unionized employees. These work stoppages resulted in several days of interruption to the services the 012 Smile.Com provides. In addition, Bezeq, HOT and other infrastructure providers have suffered technical network failures in the past. A disruption in customer access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could significantly impact the services that 012 Smile.Com provides to its customers. An increase in 012 Smile.Com’s cost of access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could adversely impact its results of operations. 012 Smile.Com also depends on third parties for the physical repair and maintenance of leased lines. If an interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third-party services occurs, Smile.Com’s services may be disrupted. Many of 012 Smile.Com’s services are dependent on the submarine infrastructure made available by MedNautilus, which is owned by Telecom Italia and connects countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea to all major Western European countries and to the United States. MedNautilus has an effective monopoly over the provision of international submarine services to the Israeli communications industry. Although prices in respect of maintenance and current capacity are agreed on a long term basis and Smile.Com’s contract with MedNautilus sets out the prices to be paid by Smile.Com for additional capacity for approximately two years, MedNautilus has the ability to raise prices without Smile.Com being able to seek an alternative supplier for additional capacity. Many of 012 Smile.Com’s relationships with third party providers are terminable upon short notice. In addition, many of its third party suppliers and communications carriers sell or lease services to 012 Smile.Com’s competitors and may be, or in the future may become, competitors themselves. If any of their arrangements with third parties is terminated, 012 Smile.Com may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all. - 13 - 012 Smile.Com is exposed to risks in connection with its network infrastructure and is dependent on services received from external suppliers. If the level of service received by 012 Smile.Com from its external suppliers decreases, it may not be able to maintain the quality and breadth of its services. 012 Smile.Com’s network platform is highly complex. Multiple faults occurring at the same time could severely affect its service. Although 012 Smile.Com’s engineering staff is trained to operate and maintain its systems, there are numerous functions that they are unable to perform without external support. In addition, if the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, it may adversely impact 012 Smile.Com’s ability to properly maintain and operate its systems and therefore have a direct effect on its service. Also, as VoB technology continues to evolve, 012 Smile.Com will be faced with the risks associated with the use of new software. 012 Smile.Com does not have a direct network connection to all the possible call destinations around the world and depends on its business partners to connect calls generated by its customers to their final destinations worldwide. 012 Smile.Com’s level of service is largely dependent on the level of service it receives from its international partners with respect to both call completion as well as call quality. Although 012 Smile.Com makes extensive efforts to ensure quality of the calls as well as the breadth of its services, it cannot be sure that its partners will provide an adequate level of service, that it would be able to successfully replace a partner should that become necessary or that it will be able to maintain and increase the quality and breadth of its services. 012 Smile.Com’s products and services may become obsolete, and it may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The communications services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Each of these development efforts faces a number of continuing technological and operational challenges. 012 Smile.Com believes that its success will depend on its ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. 012 Smile.Com faces a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with its reliance on future technological development, such as: — Other service providers may use more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services or use more efficient, less expensive technologies; — Consumers may not subscribe for its services; — 012 Smile.Com may be unable to respond successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner; — 012 Smile.Com may lack the financial and operational resources necessary to enable migration toward mobile WiMAX technology and the development and deployment of network components and software that do not currently exist and that may require substantial upgrades to or replacements of existing infrastructure; and — Existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies may render 012 Smile.Com’s existing or planned services less profitable or obsolete. 012 Smile.Com’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could adversely affect our business. 012 Smile.Com’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, communications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism and similar events. Any of these events could expose 012 Smile.Com to a material risk of loss or litigation. In addition, if a computer virus, sabotage or other failure affecting 012 Smile.Com’s systems is highly publicized, its reputation could be damaged and customer growth could decrease. While 012 Smile.Com currently has partially redundant systems, it does not have full redundancy, a formal disaster recovery plan or alternative providers of hosting services. In addition, 012 Smile.Com does not carry sufficient natural disaster or business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. - 14 - 012 Smile.Com may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of its broadband data and traditional voice services. The law relating to the liability of ISPs for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims by private or governmental entities may be brought against 012 Smile.Com for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by its customers. The defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of management and other resources. In addition, 012 Smile.Com’s professional liability insurance policy may not provide sufficient protection or cover all such exposure. Furthermore new legislation and court decisions may expose 012 Smile.Com to liabilities or affect its services. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as content, user privacy, pricing and other controls. For example, the Ministry is currently considering the implementation of broadcast content regulation with respect to electronic distribution of video content, including content distributed over the Internet, which would, among other things, block violent and sexual content for the protection of minors. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by 012 Smile.Com contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against 012 Smile.Com. For example, 012 Smile.Com offers Web-based e-mail services, which expose it to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. In the event that 012 Smile.Com is found responsible for any such liability and is required to pay damages, our results of operation and financial performance may be adversely affected. Even if 012 Smile.Com ultimately succeeds, legal actions would divert management time and resources, could be costly and are likely to generate negative publicity. 012 Smile.Com may also be forced to implement costly measures to alter the way its services are provided to avoid any further potential liability. Risk Related to Our Internet Media Division Smile.Media generates a substantial part of its revenue from MSN Israel, which is owned by it and Microsoft Corporation, and the termination of its agreements with Microsoft Corporation relating to MSN Israel could seriously harm its business. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, approximately 64%, 54% and 50% of our media division’s total revenue, respectively, was attributable to its 50.1% owned portal subsidiary, MSN Israel Ltd., which is owned by Smile.Media and Microsoft Corporation. Under the terms of the agreement with Microsoft Corporation, we agreed to provide the financing for the activities of MSN Israel by means of loans in accordance with a business plan and budget approved by the board of directors of MSN Israel from time-to-time and/or guarantees for bank loans. In connection with our assignment to Smile.Media of our rights in and obligations to MSN Israel, Smile.Media also assumed the rights and responsibilities with respect to funds received by MSN Israel from us and the interest accrued on those funds. Smile.Media, as our assignee, has the right to terminate the agreements in the event that MSN Israel’s cumulative losses are $10 million or more. Until such time as the loan is repaid in full, MSN Israel is required to pay Microsoft Corporation a fee equal to 17% of its operating income. Upon repayment of the loan in full, in accordance with the terms of the portal agreement, profits resulting from the operation of the MSN Israel portal will be divided 50.1% to Smile.Media and 49.9% to Microsoft Corporation and Smile.Media will continue to consolidate the operations of MSN Israel into its financial statements. - 15 - Under the terms of the agreements we entered into with Microsoft, Microsoft may terminate the agreements in the event we are in default of our obligations under such agreements and may terminate the portal agreement with or without cause upon 90 days’ written notice and may terminate the shareholders and brand license agreement with or without cause upon 60 days’ written notice. In the event the portal agreement is terminated, Smile.Media would be required to remove the MSN Israel portal from the Internet, would lose all revenue derived from MSN Israel and Smile.Media’s business would be adversely affected. In the event the shareholders and brand license agreement is terminated prior to the repayment of the MSN Israel loan, the remaining balance of the loan would not be repaid. The termination of the MSN Israel agreements would have a material adverse effect on Smile.Media’s results of operations and financial position, including its ability to continue as a going concern. Smile.Media faces significant competition from companies that provide content, eCommerce services, search services and advertising to Internet users and Internet service providers. Smile.Media faces significant competition in every aspect of its business, principally from Google, Walla Communications Ltd., Ynet, Tapuz and Nana, which have aggregated a variety of Internet content, eCommerce services and relevant advertising services. Some of Smile.Media’s competitors have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers as well as more resources than we do. Smile.Media’s competitors can use their experience and resources in a variety of ways, including acquisitions, research and development and by competing more aggressively for advertisers and online publishers. Some of Smile.Media’s competitors may also have a greater ability to attract and retain users than we do because they operate larger Internet properties with a broader range of content, products and services. In addition, some of the portals and websites that Smile.Media competes with may be operated by Internet service providers, other than 012 Smile.Com. Because users need to access the Internet through Internet service providers, or ISPs, users have direct relationships with these providers. If an ISP or, for that matter, a computer or computing device manufacturer offers online services that compete with Smile.Media, the user may find it more convenient to use the services of the ISP or manufacturer. Also, because the ISP gathers information from the user in connection with the establishment of a billing relationship, the ISP may be more effective than we are in tailoring services and advertisements to the specific tastes of the user. Smile.Media’s operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may cause our share price to be volatile. Smile.Media’s operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of its control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include the following: — Smile.Media's ability to continue to attract users to its websites; — The generation of revenue from traffic on Smile.Media's websites; — The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of Smile.Media’s businesses (including new websites, projects and services), operations and infrastructure; — Smile.Media’s ability to effectively integrate newly acquired Internet properties or marketing relationships for third-party content; — General economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet, online advertising and eCommerce; — Smile.Media’s ability to keep its websites operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions; and — Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. For these reasons, comparing Smile.Media’s operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and its past results may not be indicative of its future performance. - 16 - Smile.Media generates the majority of its revenue from online advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause its revenue and operating results to decline. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, our media division generated approximately 68%, 70% and 77% of its total revenue, respectively, from its advertisers. Smile.Media’s ability to continue to retain and grow its advertising revenue depends upon: — Its ability to maintain current users and continue to attract new users to its websites; — Its ability to offer advertisers a diverse range of vertically and demographically targeted audiences; — Its ability to successfully evolve its advertising formats to those preferred by advertisers, such as the emergence of lead generation and pay-per-click, which includes self-service paid search; — Widening the continued acceptance of the Internet as an advertising medium by advertisers; — Broadening its relationships with advertising agencies and small and medium-size advertisers; and — Attracting advertisers to its user base. In many cases, Smile.Media’s advertisers can terminate their contracts with Smile.Media at any time. In addition, advertisers may make smaller or shorter-term purchases, and market prices for online advertising may decrease due to competition or other factors. For example, in the late 1990s, advertisers began to spend heavily on online advertising, however, this growth in online advertising was followed by a lengthy downturn in such spending. Advertisers will not continue to do business with Smile.Media if their advertisements on Smile.Media’s websites do not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if Smile.Media does not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. If Smile.Media is unable to remain competitive and provide value to its advertisers, it may lose its existing advertisers and fail to attract new advertisers, which would cause its revenue to decrease and have a negative effect on our business. Acquisitions and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and unanticipated liabilities. We made several strategic investments related to Smile.Media in 2005 and 2006 and have recently made a strategic investment in LMT.co.il, a last minute travel portal. Smile.Media expects to pursue additional investments and acquisitions in the future. These and future investments and acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. The successful integration of these and future acquisitions into Smile.Media’s business faces a number of risks, including: — Difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of newly acquired companies and business units into our operations; — Potential disruption of Smile.Media's ongoing business and distraction to management; — Difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into existing services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; — Failure to successfully further develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; — Potential for patent and trademark infringement claims against the acquired company; — Impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or existing customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; - 17 - — Impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or current employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; — Difficulty of integrating the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; and — Impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Any failure in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. If Smile.Media fails to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, or is unable to develop, license or acquire compelling content at reasonable costs, its competitive position and ability to retain and attract users to its websites may be harmed. Smile.Media’s future success depends in part upon its ability to retain and attract new users to its websites by offering compelling content and new products and services. Smile.Media is continuously developing new products and services for its users and developing or acquiring compelling content. The planned timing or introduction of new products and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, distributional or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more new products or services. Moreover, Smile.Media cannot be sure that any of its new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. Most of Smile.Media’s Internet properties license much of the content on their properties from third parties. Such content may require substantial payments to third parties from whom Smile.Media’s Internet properties license or acquire such content. Smile.Media’s ability to maintain and build relationships with third-party content providers will be critical to its success. In addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet become available, including through mobile devices, Smile.Media may need to enter into amended content agreements with existing third-party content providers to cover the new devices. Also, to the extent that Smile.Media develops content of its own, current and potential third-party content providers may view such services as competitive with their own, and this may adversely affect their willingness to license their content to Smile.Media or to its Internet properties. Smile.Media may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third parties whose content is sought. In addition, as competition for compelling content increases both domestically and internationally, Smile.Media’s content providers may increase the prices at which they offer their content to it, and potential content providers may not offer their content on agreeable terms. Further, many of Smile.Media’s content licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other websites and other media such as radio or television may be able to offer similar or identical content. If Smile.Media is unable to license or acquire compelling content at reasonable prices, if other companies broadcast content that is similar to or the same as that provided by it, if it does not develop compelling editorial content or personalization services, or it fails to successfully develop and introduce new products and services on a timely and efficient basis, the number of users of its services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, which could harm our operating results. Smile.Media may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of its Internet activities. Smile.Media hosts a wide variety of services that enable individuals and businesses to exchange information, generate content, advertise products and services, conduct business and engage in various online activities on an international basis. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for the activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims may be brought against Smile.Media for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud or other theories based on the nature and content of information that it provides links to, that may be posted online or generated by its users, or with respect to auctioned materials. Smile.Media is especially susceptible to claims arising from its websites that are geared to other cultures and are in other languages that it cannot easily review or may have difficulty in fully understanding. Smile.Media’s defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of its management and other resources. Smile.Media generally does not exercise editorial control over the content appearing on websites that its users may be directed to from Smile.Media’s websites and may be subject to claims that it has not exercised sufficient control over such content. In the event that Smile.Media is found to be responsible for any such liability or required to pay for any damages resulting from any such responsibility, its business may be adversely affected. - 18 - Smile.Media also generally enters into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, or content on its websites and portals. Smile.Media may be subject to claims concerning these products, services or content by virtue of its involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if it does not host, operate, provide or provide access to these products, services or content. While its agreements with these parties often provide that Smile.Media will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by Smile.Media contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against it. For example, Smile.Media offers web-based email services which expose it to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of email, or interruptions or delays in email service. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even to the extent that the claims do not ultimately result in liability. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect Smile.Media’s business. Local and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that Smile.Media receives from its users and partners. In addition, Smile.Media has and posts on its websites its own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by Smile.Media to comply with it posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, local, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against it by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on its business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with Smile.Media’s policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in Smile.Media and ultimately in a loss of users, partners or advertisers, which could adversely affect our business. There are a number of legislative proposals pending before various legislative bodies in Israel concerning privacy issues which may affect Smile.Media’s business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted. Certain legislation, if adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease in Smile.Media’s user traffic and revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with Smile.Media’s current data protection policies and practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause Smile.Media to incur substantial costs or require Smile.Media to change its business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and our business focuses on the Israeli audience, therefore our results of operation may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices and employees are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 19 - Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our sales. We are incorporated, based in and currently derive substantially all of our revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2006. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. In June 2007, there was an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip resulting in Hamas effectively controlling the Gaza Strip. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our businesses may be impacted by NIS exchange rate fluctuations. Most of our communications and advertising costs are quoted in dollars. As of June 13, 2002 we are required by law to state our prices in NIS to our residential and small office and home office, or SoHo, customers. Furthermore, if we expand our business into other countries, we may earn additional revenue and incur additional expenses in other currencies. We also have U.S. dollar denominated liabilities (rights of use leasing obligations for our international lines). In future periods, our dollar assets (deposits) and our dollar denominated liabilities might commercially serve as partial economic hedges against future exchange rate fluctuations. Because all foreign currencies do not fluctuate in the same manner, we cannot quantify the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future financial condition or results of operations. A substantial devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar would substantially increase the cost of our services to Israelis, who pay us in NIS, and is likely to result in subscriber cancellations and a reduction in Internet use and e-Commerce in Israel. Our operating results may be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS against the foreign currencies to which we are exposed, by our currency hedging position and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index. Some of 012 Smile.Com’s purchases of international bandwidth and other international agreements expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar. Most of our sales are denominated in NIS. When the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS devaluation against foreign currencies, our NIS expenses will increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We engage in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on our cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. We recognize freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in our balance sheet and we measure those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For a foreign exchange derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative instrument is initially reported as a component of our shareholders’ equity and subsequently recognized in our income statement as the hedged item affects earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. - 20 - Further, as the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, our debentures are linked to the Israeli Consumer Price Index, any increase in the Israeli Consumer Price Index will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be restricted in the conduct of our operations during periods of national emergency. During periods of national emergency, the Israeli government may take control of 012 Smile.Com’s network, and it may be ordered by the Prime Ministry of Israel to provide services to security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permit the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect our business operations. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Generally, all non-exempt male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45, including many of our executive officers and employees in Israel, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from oppressing any other shareholder of his or her rights as a shareholder. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who, under our articles of association, has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness, but provides that the remedies generally available upon a breach of contract will apply also in the event of a breach of the duty to act with fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as provisions establishing a classified board. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Description of Share Capital–Approval of Related Party Transactions” and “Israeli Taxation” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. - 21 - These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers, most of our directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. 