Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon. Oil, Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile Our financial results are highly dependent on the prices of and demand for oil, gas and NGLs. A significant downward movement of the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating cash flows and profitability. Such a downward price movement could also have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, the level of planned drilling activities and future growth. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs; • conservation efforts; • OPEC production levels; • weather; • regional pricing differentials; • differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus heavy or sour crude) and Btu content of gas produced; • the level of imports and exports of oil, gas and NGLs; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the overall economic environment; and • governmental regulations and taxes. Estimates of Oil, Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of several factors including additional development activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our financial condition and profitability. Additional discussion of our policies regarding estimating and recording reserves is described in “