Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities, and the oil and gas industry in general, are subject to a variety of risks. Although we have a diversified asset base, a strong balance sheet and a history of generating sufficient cash to fund capital expenditure and investment programs and to pay dividends, if any of the following risk factors should occur, our profitability, financial condition and/or liquidity could be materially impacted. As a result, holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Devon. Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Prices are Volatile Our financial results are highly dependent on the prices of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. A significant downward movement of the prices for these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our estimated proved reserves, revenues and operating cash flows, as well as the level of planned drilling activities. Such a downward price movement could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and future growth. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • consumer demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; • conservation efforts; • OPEC production restraints; • weather; • regional market pricing differences; • differing quality of oil produced (i.e., sweet crude versus heavy or sour crude) and Btu content of gas produced; • the level of imports and exports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the overall economic environment; and • governmental regulations and taxes. Estimates of Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves are Uncertain The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, particularly for new discoveries. Because of the high degree of judgment involved, different reserve engineers may develop different estimates of reserve quantities and related revenue based on the same data. In addition, the reserve 11 Table of Contents estimates for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of several factors including additional development activity, the viability of production under varying economic conditions and variations in production levels and associated costs. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur as a result of changes in any of these factors. Such revisions to proved reserves could have a material adverse effect on our estimates of future net revenue, as well as our financial condition and profitability. Additional discussion of our policies regarding estimating and recording reserves is described in “