Item 1A. Risk Factors We cannot predict when we will achieve profitability. We have not been profitable and cannot predict when we will achieve profitability, if ever. Our plan is to be in a position to sell sufficient Power Packs coming off our automated production line in 2007 to reach profitability but we can give no assurance of that result. Our inability to become profitable may force us to curtail or temporarily discontinue our research and development programs and our day-to-day operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained on an ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $143,731,000. We have increased our leverage as a result of the sale of our notes. Our ability to make payments on our $49,000,000 face amount notes, which do not have the benefit of a sinking fund, and any other debt we may incur, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash. On a consolidated basis with our subsidiaries, we have had limited revenue since inception and none in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2004. Our ability to generate cash is subject to the successful development and commercialization of our fuel cell technologies or our CellScan System as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We are unable to determine when we will generate significant revenues from the sale of any of our planned products. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to enable us to pay the principal of and the interest on the notes and any other indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In the absence of significant operating revenue, we expect to fund interest payments due on our notes throughout 2006 and into at least early 2007 from our then-available cash resources, including cash generated from the net proceeds of our sale of such notes and from the net proceeds of future exercises of our outstanding stock options and warrants, of which we can give no assurance. Under the indenture governing out notes, if we were to experience a change in control, each holder may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the holder’s note at 105% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest through the repurchase date. We may, at our option, repurchase each such note in cash or in common stock. If a change in control occurs, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the repurchase price for all of the notes tendered by the holders thereof or we may not be permitted to repurchase the notes tendered under our then existing credit arrangements. Additionally, any default under the indenture could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness and other material adverse effects. We may never complete the development of commercially acceptable fuel cell products or develop any of our other technologies into commercially acceptable products. Although we have targeted the first quarter of 2007 for the roll-out of our first commercial fuel cell product from our automated line which is now being built, we can give no assurance as to -15- when or whether we will successfully commercialize our fuel cell products for our target markets. We continue to seek to improve our fuel cell products, particularly in the areas of energy capacity, power density, operating time, shelf life and working life, as well as the temperature conditions under which they can operate. We also seek to reduce the component costs and costs of the final product, and continue to seek to improve its power management system and each element of the power management system. We believe that we have completed development of our CellScan system, although we expect to continue to make further advances, and it is ready for sale in the market but we can give no assurance as to commercial acceptance of the CellScan system or as to when or whether we will successfully develop any of our other technologies into commercially acceptable products. Developing any technology into a marketable product that the consumer will desire to purchase is a risky, time consuming and expensive process. We may encounter setbacks, discrepancies requiring time consuming and costly redesigns and changes and that there is the possibility of outright failure. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones and time tables. We establish milestones and time tables, based upon our expectations regarding our technologies, plans and programs at that time, which we use to assess our progress toward developing and delivering into the market place commercially acceptable fuel cell products. These milestones relate to technology and design improvements as well as to dates for achieving production and marketing goals. If our products exhibit technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including levels and stability of power output for our Power Pack, useful life and reliability and satisfactory clinical test results for our CellScan or if our production cannot be achieved in time or the costs exceed our expectations, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and third parties who are collaborating with us to manufacture or market our fuel cell products may decline to continue that collaboration. Furthermore, potential purchasers of our initial commercial products may lose interest or may opt to purchase alternative technologies. Generally, we have continued to make technological advances and establish production and distribution relationships in order to meet our research and development programs. We can give no assurance that our commercialization schedule will continue to be met as we further develop our fuel cell products, or any of our other technologies or products. Customers will be unlikely to buy our fuel cell products or our CellScan System unless we can demonstrate that they can be produced for sale to customers and users at attractive prices. To date, we have focused primarily on research and development of our fuel cell technologies and on the early stages of production preparation for low-level and large scale production of our fuel cell products. Consequently, we have no experience in the final stages of manufacturing our fuel cell products on a commercial basis. We plan initially to manufacture a limited number of our fuel cell products on a semi-automated production line at our own facilities and then move to a fully automated production line operated by a third-party contract manufacturing for high-volume production. We can offer no assurance that either we, our contract manufacturers or any other party we engage to build a fully automated line production for volume-production of our products will develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the quality, -16- price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel cell products. Even if we or our contract manufacturers are successful in developing such manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we or they will be timely in meeting our product commercialization schedule or the product, production and delivery requirements of potential customers. A failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The price of our fuel cell products is dependent largely on material and other manufacturing costs. We are unable to offer any assurance that either we or a contract manufacturer will be able to reduce costs to a level which will allow production of a competitive product that the consumer finds attractive or that any product produced using lower cost materials and manufacturing processes will not suffer from a reduction in performance, reliability and longevity. Furthermore, although we have estimated a pricing structure for our fuel cell products, including manufacturing costs and proposed sales price, we can give no assurance that these estimates will be correct in light of any manufacturing process we adopt or distribution channels we use. Furthermore, our contemplated program for the volume production of our fuel cell products would require us to manufacture the electrodes, catalysts and fuel internally and deliver them to our proposed contract manufacturer to be part of the final product. Although we have established electrode and fuel production operations at our facility in Israel, we have not demonstrated that we are capable of producing any of those or any other components at a large enough scale to adequately supply those components in sufficient volume, or if those components will meet or surpass the manufacturing standards necessary for a successful final product. We have developed a pricing structure for the CellScan, CellCarriers and tests that we believe would be commercially acceptable. However, we can give no assurance that our CellScan customers would respond affirmatively to our pricing structure. A commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Although we have developed our business plans based on there being a large consumer and military demand for our Power Pack, a commercially acceptable market may never develop for our fuel cell products or any of our other technologies, or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Our fuel cell products represent a new market product, and we do not know with certainty to what extent, if any, end-users will want to purchase and use them. The development of a commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may be affected by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: · the level to which the capabilities of our fuel cell product has advanced in performance, shelf-life, stand-by time, time of use, size, weight, cost and other factors that determine consumer acceptance; · the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products; · improvements to existing technologies, including existing rechargeable battery technology or the chips used in the electronic devices that allow the batteries to operate more efficiently or allow the devices to run for longer periods of time; -17- · the future cost of sodium borohydrides, alkalines, glycerol, ethanol, or any other hydrogen-based fuels, the catalysts used in our fuel cell products or other chemicals used for powering our fuel cell products and , plastics and nickel used in the product; · regulations that affect or limit the use of the components in our fuel cells or our fuel cells in general, including regulations determining the use of our fuel cell products in an airplane cabin or other consumer uses; · consumer perceptions of the safety of our products; and · consumer reluctance to try a new product. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability. We will be unable to market or sell our fuel cell products or products derived from any of our other technologies if we are unsuccessful in entering into sales agreements, arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties. As we do not have nor do we intend to develop our own broad based marketing or wide scale manufacturing infrastructure, our ability to market, manufacture and sell our fuel cell technologies or any of our other technologies is wholly dependent on our entry into manufacturing, sales or distributing arrangements, sales agreements, strategic alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties possessing such capabilities. Although to date we have been successful in entering into certain of such arrangements, we can give no assurance that in the future we will be successful in entering into additional arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or agreements or that the terms of which will be entirely beneficial to us. We expect to be dependent on third party suppliers and subcontractors for the supply of key materials and components for our products. If and when either we or our contract manufacturers or manufacturing, strategic alliance or joint venture partners commence production of our fuel cells or fuel cell products, of which there can be no assurance, we expect to rely upon third party suppliers and subcontractors to provide requisite materials and components, including the power management system of our fuel cell Power Pack product. A supplier’s or subcontractor’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture our fuel cell products or meet our cost targets or commercialization schedule. We or our contract manufacturers, manufacturing, strategic alliance or joint venture partners may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative suppliers, and that could adversely affect our ability to produce viable fuel cells or significantly raise the cost of producing fuel cells or fuel cell products. We expect that platinum will not be a component in our commercial fuel cell products, however, there can be no assurance that we may not require some platinum to achieve the results we desire or in some future version of our fuel cell for larger applications. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and, to the extent it remains a component of the electrode, we will be dependent upon a sufficient supply of this commodity at a cost that allows us to meet our cost targets for our fuel cell -18- products. While we do not anticipate significant near or long-term shortages in the supply of platinum, such shortages could adversely affect our ability to produce commercially acceptable fuel cell product or raise our cost of producing our fuel cell products beyond our targeted cost. Problems or delays in our collaboration efforts with third parties to develop or market our fuel cell products could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products. We have entered into agreements with third parties who have agreed to assist us in developing or marketing our fuel cell products, producing and supplying components of our fuel cell products or producing the manufacturing line for our fuel cell products. We are in discussions with other third parties and may enter into similar agreements with such other parties or others in the future, of which we can give no assurances of success. Some of these collaboration agreements contemplate that these third parties will work with our scientists and employees to test various aspects of, assist in developing components of, or market, our fuel cells or fuel cell products. Such tests or development efforts may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly and the failure to maintain and service any test prototypes properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, collaborative efforts, by their nature, often create problems due to miscommunications and disparate expectations and priorities among the parties involved and may result in unexpected modifications and delays in developing or marketing our fuel cell technologies or impact the cost of making and delivering our fuel cell products. Any such problems or perceived problems with these collaborative efforts could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products and technologies. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not offer sufficient protection, which could hinder our growth and success. We regard our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights as essential to our growth and success. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions with employees and with third parties to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, patents for certain technologies and are currently applying for additional patents. We can offer no assurance that we will succeed in receiving patent and other proprietary protection in all markets we enter, or, if successful, that such protection will be sufficient. If we successfully develop and market our fuel cells or our CellScan System or any of our other technologies, we expect to face efforts by larger companies and other organizations or authorities to undermine our patents by challenging or copying our intellectual property. Moreover, intellectual property rights are not protected in certain parts of the world. We intend to vigorously defend our material intellectual property against any challenges that may arise. However, any infringement action initiated by us may be very costly and require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to our operations. Claims by third parties that our technology infringes upon their patents may, if successful, prevent us from further developing or selling our technologies. Although we do not believe our business activities infringe upon the rights of others, nor are we aware of any pending or contemplated actions to such effect, we can give no assurance that our business activities will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. -19- We may need additional funding in order to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. Since inception, we have incurred operating losses and have used cash in our operations. We have relied on financing activities, principally the sale of our common stock and, recently, our newly-issued notes, to fund our research and development activities and operations. Unless we are able to successfully develop and market our technologies and products, we believe this dependence will continue. We believe we have sufficient funding for our operations until 2007. However, we may need additional funding in order to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. In addition we may need additional funding if cost overruns relating to the implementation of our manufacturing lines occur, if we do not generate revenues as we currently contemplate by the early 2007, or if we determine to expend funds on advertising our Power Pack or other products. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding, or funding on terms acceptable to us, to meet our financial obligations, if necessary, or that a third party will be willing to make such funds available. Our failure to raise additional funds could require us to delay or curtail our marketing and production programs and research and product development efforts. Further, an event of default may occur if we are unable to repay borrowings under our notes. Additionally, our failure to successfully develop or market our fuel cell products our CellScan system or products derived from any of our other technologies may materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. In any event, it is not possible to make any reliable estimate of the funds required to complete the development of any of our other technologies or market and produce our fuel cell products. If we were to lose our technical talent or members of senior management and could not find appropriate replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent upon Gennadi Finkelshtain, the General Manager of More Energy, our wholly-owned fuel cell subsidiary, and the other scientists, engineers and technicians that seek out, recognize and develop our technologies, as well as our highly skilled and experienced management, including Robert K. Lifton, our Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Weingrow, our President. The loss of the services of Mr. Finkelshtain, or any of our other technical talent or of Messrs. Lifton and Weingrow could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our fuel cell products into successful commercial products or any of our other technologies into commercial products. We possess key-person life insurance of $3,000,000 on Mr. Finkelshtain. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel, we can offer no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Zvi Rehavi, our Executive Vice President with particular responsibility for developing and marketing the CellScan and other of our technologies not relating to our fuel cell technologies, has informed us that he will be leaving Medis at the end of the term of his employment agreement on March 31, 2006. We intend to hire an executive who will be responsible for the commercialization of the CellScan. We plan to allocate Mr. Rehavi’s other responsibilities to our other employees after his departure. -20- There may be adverse effects on our earnings and our stock price due to the large amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2005, our consolidated balance sheet showed approximately $58,205,000 of goodwill. Our goodwill balance of $58,205,000 is subject to a test for impairment at least annually, which could result in a charge to operations in the event impairment of the goodwill balance would be identified. We continue to amortize the remaining unamortized balance of our intangible assets of $464,000 as of December 31, 2005, with a remaining weighted average useful life of approximately 27 months. Risks associated with conducting operations in Israel could materially adversely affect our ability to complete the development of our fuel cell technology or any of our other technologies. Our research and development facilities, our pilot manufacturing facility for our fuel cell Power Pack, as well as some of our executive offices and back-office functions, are located in the State of Israel and our key personnel and their families reside in Israel. We are, therefore, directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country, whether due to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, conflicts with Iran, or America’s war against terrorism, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of any of our fuel cell products, our technologies or our ability to supply our technology to contract manufacturers, development partners, customers or vendors. Furthermore, any interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country in which we have strategic relationships could similarly adversely affect such relationships. In addition, all male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 54, unless exempt, are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. We are unable to assess what impact, if any, these factors may have upon our future operations. In addition, historically, Israel has suffered from high inflation and the devaluation of its currency, the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, compared to the U.S. dollar. Future inflation or further devaluations of the NIS may have a negative impact on our NIS-based obligations over time upon substantial price increases caused by inflation. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a judgment against our Israeli officers and directors, making it difficult to bring a successful lawsuit against us, or our officers and directors, individually or in the aggregate. Service of process upon our directors and officers, many of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be collectible within the United States to the extent our assets are located outside the United States. This could limit the ability of our stockholders to sue us based upon an alleged breach of duty or other cause of action. We have been informed by our Israeli legal counsel that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to limitation, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters, obtained after a trial before a court of competent jurisdiction, according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, which enforce similar Israeli judgments, provided that: · due service of process has been effected and the defendant was given a reasonable opportunity to defend; -21- · the obligation imposed by the judgment is executionable according to the laws relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel, such judgment is not contrary to public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel and such judgment is executionable in the state in which it was given; · such judgments were not obtained by fraud and do not conflict with any other valid judgments in the same manner between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. Foreign judgments enforced by Israeli courts generally will be payable in Israeli currency, which can then be converted into United States dollars and transferred out of Israel. The judgment debtor may also pay in dollars. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. We intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, for use in our business operations and do not expect to pay dividends to our stockholders. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. Our board presently intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. Our fuel cell product and our CellScan System face and will continue to face significant competition. A large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan and elsewhere are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of power sources, including batteries and fuel cells, both for portable electronic devices and other uses. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our financial results. We expect competition to intensify greatly as the need for new energy alternatives becomes more apparent and continues to increase. Some of our competitors are well established and have substantially greater managerial, technical, financial, marketing and product development resources. Additionally, companies, government-sponsored laboratories and universities, both large and small, are entering the markets in which we compete. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not be more successful in the markets in which we compete than we have been, or will be in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such a competitive environment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None -22- Item 