Item 1A. Risk Factors. Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent us from maintaining or increasing revenue and sustaining profitability. The market for networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco maintains a dominant position in this market and several of its products compete directly with our products. Cisco’s substantial resources and market dominance have enabled it to reduce prices on its products within a short period of time following the introduction of these products, which typically causes its competitors to reduce prices and, therefore, the margins and the overall profitability of its competitors. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its longer operating history, broader product line and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that directly compete with our products or render our products obsolete. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against Cisco, currently the leading provider in the networking market. We also compete with other companies, such as 3Com, Alcatel-Lucent, Enterasys Networks, Extreme Networks, F5 Networks,, Force 10 Networks, Hewlett-Packard Company, Huawei Technologies, Juniper Networks and Nortel Networks. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger 9 Table of Contents installed customer bases. Additionally, we may face competition from unknown companies and emerging technologies that may offer new LAN, MAN and LAN/WAN solutions. Furthermore, a number of these competitors may merge or form strategic relationships that would enable them to apply greater resources and sales coverage than we can, and to offer, or bring to market earlier, products that are superior to ours in terms of features, quality, pricing or a combination of these and other factors. For example, Alcatel combined with Lucent in 2006. In order to remain competitive, we must, among other things, invest significant resources in developing new products with superior performance at lower prices than our competitors, enhance our current products and maintain customer satisfaction. In addition, we must make certain our sales and marketing capabilities allow us to compete effectively against our competitors. If we fail to do so, our products may not compete favorably with those of our competitors and our revenue and profitability could suffer. We must continue to introduce new products with superior performance and features in a timely manner in order to sustain and increase our revenue, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. The networking industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. Therefore, in order to remain competitive, we must introduce new products in a timely manner that offer substantially greater performance and support a greater number of users per device, all at lower price points. Even if these objectives are accomplished, new products may not be successful in the marketplace, or may take more time than anticipated to start generating meaningful revenue. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to develop or obtain important intellectual property and accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to develop new products before knowing whether our investments will eventually result in products the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to forecast sales volumes and quickly manufacture a sufficient volume of products and mix of configurations that meet customer requirements, all at low costs. The life cycle of networking products can be as short as 18 to 24 months. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements and in achieving volume manufacturing for such new products. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. During the development of our products, we have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development of critical components, which in turn has led to, and may in the future lead to, delays in product introductions. Our gross margins and average selling prices of our products have decreased in the past and could decrease as a result of competitive pressures and other factors. Our industry has experienced erosion of average product selling prices due to a number of factors, particularly competitive and macroeconomic pressures and rapid technological change. The average selling prices of our products have decreased in the past and may continue to decrease in response to competitive pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by our competitors or other factors. Both we and our competitors occasionally lower sales prices in order to gain market share or create more demand. Furthermore, as a result of cautious capital spending in the technology sector, coupled with broader macro-economic factors, both we and our competitors may pursue more aggressive pricing strategies in an effort to maintain sales levels. Such intense pricing competition could cause our gross margins to decline and may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our gross margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to reduce manufacturing costs and effectively manage our inventory levels. Although management continues to closely monitor inventory levels, declines in 10 Table of Contents demand for our products could result in additional provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. Additionally, our gross margins may be negatively affected by fluctuations in manufacturing volumes, component costs, the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold. For example, we generally realize higher gross margins on direct sales to an end user than on sales through resellers or to our OEMs. As a result, any significant shift in revenue through resellers or to our OEMs could harm our gross margins. In addition, if product or related warranty costs associated with our products are greater than we have experienced, our gross margins may also be adversely affected. Weak economic and market conditions or geopolitical turmoil may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and expenses. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate due to the effects of general economic conditions in the United States and globally, and, in particular, market conditions in the communications and networking industries. Additionally, there is an unknown risk that problems in the United States credit markets occasioned by problems in the United States housing market may expand such that it impacts the greater United States economy to the degree that it could negatively impact our prospective financial service and retail customers as well as customer demand in other areas. If economic conditions in the United States worsen, we may experience material negative effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve or even maintain our financial results or that economic and market conditions will not deteriorate. There is also the possibility that problems with the United States market will have a negative impact on the global economy or that political turmoil in other parts of the world, including terrorist and military actions, may weaken the global economy which can also negatively impact our business. Our investments in adjustable rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of February 25, 2008, we held $83.2 million of municipal notes investments, classified as short-term investments, with an auction reset feature (“adjustable rate securities”) whose underlying assets were primarily in student loans. As of February 25, 2008, $65.7 million of our adjustable rate securities rated AAA, and $17.5 million had an AA credit rating. Auctions for some of these adjustable rate securities have recently failed, and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining adjustable rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so as a result of a lack of buying demand. As a result of auction failures, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our adjustable rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. These developments may result in the classification of some or all of these securities as long-term investments in our consolidated financial statements. If the issuers of these adjustable rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 33 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 27%, 29% and 30% of net product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of continued orders from any of our more significant customers, such as the United States government or individual agencies within the United States government or Mitsui & Co. Ltd., our reseller in Japan, could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of our products. In addition, a change in the mix of our customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. Although our financial performance may depend on large, recurring orders from certain customers and resellers, we do not generally have binding commitments from them. For example: • our reseller agreements generally do not require substantial minimum purchases; 11 Table of Contents • our customers can stop purchasing and our resellers can stop marketing our products at any time; and • our reseller agreements generally are not exclusive and are for one-year terms, with no obligation of the resellers to renew the agreements. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from a small number of customers. The United States government is a significant customer and has been one key to our financial success. However, government demand is unpredictable and there is no guarantee of future contract awards. As part of the changing economic environment, the United States government has become an important customer for the networking industry, and for us in particular, representing approximately 18%, 17% and 19% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The process of becoming a qualified government vendor, especially for high-security projects, takes considerable time and effort, and the timing of contract awards and deployment of our products are hard to predict. Typically, six to twelve months may elapse between the initial evaluation of our systems by governmental agencies and the execution of a contract. The revenue stream from these contracts is hard to predict and may be materially uneven between quarters. Government agency contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are often protracted and may contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event funds are unavailable to the government agency. Even if we are awarded contracts, substantial delays or cancellations of purchases could result from protests initiated by losing bidders. In addition, government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in certain areas. If we fail to win significant government contract awards, if the government or individual agencies within the government terminate or reduce the scope and value of our existing contracts, or if the government fails to reduce the budget deficit, our financial results may be harmed. Additionally, government orders may be subject to priority requirements that may affect scheduled shipments to our other customers. We purchase several key components for our products from sole sources; if these components are not available, our revenue may be adversely affected. We purchase several key components used in our products from suppliers for which we have no readily available alternative, or sole sources, and depend on supply from these sources to meet our needs. The inability of any supplier to provide us with an adequate supply of key components, or the loss of any of our suppliers, may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders and may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We believe lead-times for various components have lengthened as a result of limits on IT spending and economic uncertainty, which has made certain components scarce. As component demand increases and lead-times become longer, our suppliers may increase component costs. If component costs increase, our gross margins may also decline. Our principal limited or sole-sourced components include high-speed dynamic and static random access memories, commonly known as DRAMs and SRAMs, ASICs, printed circuit boards, optical components, packet processors, switching fabrics, microprocessors and power supplies. Proprietary ASICs used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from sole sources and may not be readily available from other suppliers as the development period required to fabricate our ASICs can be lengthy. In addition, our newer product families integrate customizable network processors from sole source suppliers such as Marvell Technology Group Ltd. We acquire these components through purchase orders and have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing from these suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced shortages in allocations of components, resulting in delays in filling orders. We may encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components in the future, which could impede our ability to meet customer orders. Our proprietary ASICs, which provide key functionality in our products, are fabricated in foundries operated by, or subcontracted by, Texas Instruments Inc., Fujitsu Ltd., and Broadcom Corp. An alternative supply for these ASICs would require an extensive development period. 12 Table of Contents We depend on anticipated product orders to determine our material requirements. Lead-times for limited-sourced materials and components can be as long as six months, vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead-times with the risk of inventory obsolescence due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If orders do not match forecasts, or if we do not manage inventory effectively, we may have either excess or insufficient inventory of materials and components, which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. The matters relating to our Special Committee investigation into our stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to civil litigation claims, regulatory proceedings and government proceedings which could burden Foundry and have a material adverse effect on us. The inquiries by the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) into, and the investigation by the Special Committee of our Audit Committee of, our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our fiscal 1999-2005 financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government inquiries and enforcement actions. We have cooperated with the DOJ and the SEC and expect to continue to do so. The period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option grant practices. As described in Note 3, “Commitments and Contingencies — Litigation,” to Consolidated Financial Statements, several derivative complaints have been filed in state and federal courts against our current directors, some of our former directors and some of our current and former executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices, the derivative actions, these DOJ and SEC inquiries and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. These actions and inquiries could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. We may be subject to litigation risks and intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Additionally, we may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. The networking industry is subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Some companies claim extensive patent portfolios that may apply to the network industry. As a result of the existence of a large number of patents and the rate of issuance of new patents in the networking industry, it is practically impossible for a company to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components may infringe upon intellectual property rights that may be claimed by others. From time to time third parties have asserted patent, copyright and trademark rights to technologies and standards that are important to us. Additionally, third parties may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights with respect to our existing or future products. We have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, substantial expenses in defending against such third party claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. A number of companies have developed a licensing program in an attempt to realize revenue from their patent portfolios. Some of these companies have contacted us regarding a license. We carefully review all license requests, but are unwilling to license technology that we believe is not required for our product portfolio. However, any asserted license demand can require considerable effort and expense to review and respond. Moreover, a refusal by us to a license request could result in threats of litigation or actual litigation, which, if or when initiated, could harm our business. 13 Table of Contents We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We believe that we have defenses in the lawsuits pending against us as indicated in Note 3, “Commitments and Contingencies — Litigation,” to Consolidated Financial Statements, and we are vigorously contesting these allegations. Responding to the allegations has been, and probably will continue to be, expensive and time-consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our internally developed technology and know-how. Our proprietary technology includes our hardware architectures, our IronWare software, our IronView network management software, and certain mechanical designs. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights in these proprietary technologies. Although we have patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. We provide software to customers under license agreements included in the packaged software. These agreements are not negotiated with or signed by the licensee, and thus may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality and license agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. These precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in some foreign countries in which the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our reliance on third-party manufacturing vendors to manufacture our products may cause a delay in our ability to fill orders which could cause us to lose revenue. Our subassemblies for certain products are manufactured by contract manufacturers. We then perform final assembly and testing of these products. In addition, some Foundry-branded products are manufactured by third party OEMs. Our agreements with some of these companies allow them to procure long lead-time component inventory on our behalf based on a rolling production forecast provided by us. We are contractually obligated to purchase long lead-time component inventory procured by certain suppliers and third-party manufacturers in accordance with our forecasts, although we can generally give notice of order cancellation at least 90 days prior to the delivery date. If actual demand for our products is below our projections, we may have excess inventory as a result of our purchase commitments. We do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers and third-party manufacturers. We have experienced delays in product shipments from our contract manufacturers and OEMs, which in turn delayed product shipments to our customers. In addition, certain of our products require a long manufacturing lead-time, which may result in delayed shipments. We may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product, or acquisition by a competitor or business failure of any of our OEMs, any of which could harm our business and operating results. We intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating our efforts with our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We attempt to adjust our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. The inability of our contract manufacturers or OEMs to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, the loss of any of our third-party manufacturers, or the inability to obtain components and raw materials, could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. Additionally, from time to time, we transition, via our contract manufacturers, to different manufacturing locations, including lower-cost foreign countries. Such transitions are inherently risky and could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders on a timely basis or a deterioration in product quality. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to increase our revenue depends on expanding our direct sales operations and reseller distribution channels and providing excellent customer support. If we are unable to effectively develop and retain our sales and support staff, or establish and cultivate relationships with our indirect distribution channels, our ability to grow and increase our revenue could be harmed. Additionally, if our resellers and system integrators are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Some of our resellers also sell products that compete with our products. Resellers and system integrators typically sell directly to end-users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. System integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of resellers and service providers are also system integrators. As a result, we cannot assure that our resellers will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with adequate sales, marketing and technical support. Additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services effectively, or if our resellers’ financial conditions or operations weaken our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. In an effort to gain market share and support our customers, we have expanded and expect to continue to expand our direct sales operations and customer service staff to support new and existing customers. The timing and extent of such expansion are uncertain. We currently outsource our technical support to a third-party provider in Australia to support our customers on that continent. In the future, we may utilize third-party contractors in other regions of the world as part of our expansion effort. Expansion of our direct sales operations, reseller channels, and customer service operations may not be successfully implemented, and the cost of any expansion may exceed the revenue generated. Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control. As a result, our business may be harmed if we are unable to successfully address these risks. Our success will depend, in part, on increasing international sales and expanding our international operations. Our international sales primarily depend on our resellers, including Pan Dacom GmbH in Europe, Mitsui & Co. Ltd. in Japan, Stark Technology in Taiwan, and Samsung Corporation in Korea. The failure of our international resellers to sell our products could limit our ability to sustain and grow our revenue. In particular, our revenue from Japan depends primarily on Mitsui’s ability to sell our products and on the strength of the Japanese economy. There are a number of additional risks arising from our international business, including: • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potential recessions in economies outside the United States; • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • export restrictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • higher costs of doing business in foreign countries; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • potential adverse tax consequences; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • infringement claims on foreign patents, copyrights, or trademark rights; • natural disasters and widespread medical epidemics; • military conflict and terrorist activities; and • political instability. 15 Table of Contents The factors described above could also disrupt our product and component manufacturers and key suppliers located outside of the United States. One or more of such factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Generally, our international sales are denominated in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive on a price basis in international markets. We invoice some of our international customers in local currencies, which could subject us to fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and the local currencies. See also Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for a review of certain risks associated with foreign exchange rates. Because our financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly, we may not meet quarterly financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our ability to increase revenue in the future is dependent on increased demand for our products and our ability to ship larger volumes of our products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Delays in generating or recognizing revenue could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. We continue our practice of not providing quantitative guidance as to expected revenues for future quarters. In the future, we may begin to provide quantitative guidance again, but could again discontinue the practice if we believe the business outlook is too uncertain to predict. Any such decision could cause our stock price to decline. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenue for a number of reasons. Unfulfilled orders at the beginning of each quarter are typically substantially less than our expected revenue for that quarter. Therefore, we depend on obtaining orders in a quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. In addition, our reseller agreements typically allow the reseller to delay scheduled delivery dates without penalty. Moreover, demand for our products may fluctuate as a result of seasonality. For example, sales to the United States government are typically stronger in the third calendar quarter and demand from European customers is generally weaker in the summer months. Orders are generally cancelable at any time prior to shipment. Reasons for cancellation could include our inability to deliver products within the customer’s specified timeframe due to component shortages or high priority government orders that take precedence over commercial enterprise orders, as well as other reasons. Our revenue for a particular period may also be difficult to predict and may be adversely affected if we experience a non-linear, or back-end loaded, sales pattern during the period. We typically experience significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period as a result of customers submitting their orders late in the period or as a result of manufacturing issues or component shortages which may delay shipments. Such non-linearity in shipments can increase costs, as irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and additional costs associated with higher inventory levels and inventory planning. Furthermore, orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to our manufacturing lead times. In addition, we may incur increased costs and expenses related to sales and marketing (including expansion of our direct sales operations and distribution channels), customer support, expansion of our corporate infrastructure, legal matters, and facilities expansion. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. As a result, any significant shortfall in revenue relative to our expectations could cause a significant decline in our quarterly operating results. Because of the uncertain nature of the economic environment and rapidly changing market we serve, period-to-period comparisons of operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, prior results for any period are not a reliable indication of future performance. In the future, our revenue may remain the same, decrease or increase, and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As a consequence, operating results for a particular quarter are extremely difficult to predict. 16 Table of Contents We need additional qualified personnel to maintain and expand our business. If we are unable to promptly attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly-skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. Competition for these personnel can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we may experience some difficulty hiring employees in the timeframe we desire, particularly engineering and sales personnel. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options and/or restricted stock. In order to improve productivity, we have historically used stock options and/or restricted stock to motivate and retain our employees. The additional compensation expense that must now be recognized in connection with grants of stock options and restricted stock may limit the attractiveness of using stock options and restricted stock as a primary incentive and retention tool. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions. Our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, we believe that our future success may depend on Bobby R. Johnson, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not have employment contracts or key person life insurance for any of our personnel. Due to the lengthy sales cycles of some of our products, the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict and may cause us to fail to meet our revenue expectations. Some of our products have a relatively high sales price, and their purchase often represents a significant and strategic decision by a customer. The decision by customers to purchase our products is often based on their internal budgets and procedures involving rigorous evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance of new technologies. As a result, our sales cycle in these situations can be as long as 12 months and may vary substantially from customer to customer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they may place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Consequently, if sales forecasted from certain customers for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, we may not meet our revenue expectations. We are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly impact our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Since adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2006, we have experienced a substantial increase in compensation costs, and the accounting change will further significantly impact our operating results in future periods. The adoption of this standard may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. Each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. 17 Table of Contents If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the past, and we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on our internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of our voluntary review of our historical stock option granting practices, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2005. The restatement of financial statements in prior filings with the SEC is a strong indicator of the existence of a “material weakness” in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting. However, we have concluded that the control deficiencies that resulted in the restatement of the previously issued consolidated financial statements did not constitute a material weakness as of December 31, 2007, because management determined that as of December 31, 2007 there were effective controls designed and in place to prevent or detect a material misstatement, and therefore, the likelihood of stock-based compensation, deferred compensation and deferred tax assets being materially misstated is not more than remote. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. 18 Table of Contents We may engage in acquisitions that could result in dilution for our stockholders, disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial expenses and harm our business if we cannot successfully integrate the acquired business, products, technologies or personnel. Although we focus on internal product development and growth, we may learn of acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business or enhance our technological capabilities. Any acquisition by us could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to amortizable intangible assets, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. Furthermore, acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of products, operations, personnel and technologies of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • disruptions to our operations, including potential difficulties in completing ongoing projects in a timely manner; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • exposure to third party intellectual property infringement claims; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that might be acquired, and our failure to do so could harm our business. The timing of the adoption of industry standards may negatively affect widespread market acceptance of our products. Our success depends in part on both the adoption of industry standards for new technologies in our market and our products’ compliance with industry standards. Many technological developments occur prior to the adoption of the related industry standard. The absence or delay of an industry standard related to a specific technology may prevent market acceptance of products using the technology. We intend to develop products using new technological advancements and may develop these products prior to the adoption of industry standards related to these technologies. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and losses due to lack of customer demand, unusable purchased components for these products and the diversion of our engineers from future product development efforts. Further, if the adoption of industry standards moves too quickly, we may develop products that do not comply with a later-adopted industry standard, which could hurt our ability to sell these products. If the industry evolves to new standards, we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products in a timely fashion that meet these new standards. Even after industry standards are adopted, the future success of our products depends on widespread market acceptance of their underlying technologies. Attempts by third parties to impose licensing fees on industry standards could undermine the adoption of such standards and decrease industry opportunities. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, our sales may be delayed or cancelled and our business could be harmed. Our products need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected, orders for our products could be cancelled or our 19 Table of Contents products could be returned. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and lost sales and be subject to product liability claims. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or as new enhancements and versions are released. Despite our testing procedures, these defects and errors may be found after commencement of commercial shipments. Any defects or errors in our products discovered in the future or failures of our customers’ networks, whether caused by our products or another vendors’ products, could result in: • negative customer reactions; • product liability claims; • negative publicity regarding us and our products; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; • product returns; • lost sales; and • unexpected expenses to remedy defects or errors. We may incur liabilities that are not subject to maximum loss clauses. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into purchase orders, sales contracts, and other similar contractual arrangements relating to the marketing, sale, manufacture, distribution, or use of our products and services. We may incur liabilities relating to our failure to address certain liabilities or inability to perform certain covenants or obligations under such agreements, or which result from claims and losses arising from certain external events as outlined within the particular contract. Such agreements may not contain, or be subject to, maximum loss clauses, and liabilities arising from them may result in significant adverse changes to our financial position or results of operations. Our products may not continue to comply with the regulations governing their sale, which may harm our business. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories. Internationally, products that we develop may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries, as well as those of certain international bodies. Recent environmental legislation within the European Union (the “EU”) may increase our cost of doing business internationally as we comply with and implement these new requirements. The EU has issued a directive on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the “RoHS” Directive) and enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directive to mandate the funding, collection, treatment, recycling, and recovery of WEEE by producers of electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. Under the RoHS Directive, specified electronic products which we placed on the market in the EU on or after July 1, 2006 are required to meet restrictions on lead and certain other chemical substances. Implementation of the WEEE Directive in certain of the EU-member countries was delayed until a later date. We have implemented measures to comply with the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive as individual countries issue their implementation guidance. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries in which we currently sell, there can be no assurance that our existing and future product offerings will continue to comply with evolving standards and regulations. If we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification, we may not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenue or maintaining profitability. Additionally, future changes in tariffs, or their application, by regulatory agencies could affect the sales of some of our products. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile historically, which may make it more difficult to sell shares when needed at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, speculation in the press or investment community, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued by us in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Foundry without further action by our stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Foundry, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. Our principal operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. In addition, certain of our local and foreign offices, OEMs, and contract manufacturers are located in areas susceptible to earthquakes and acts of terrorism, which could cause a material disruption in our operations. For example, we procure critical components from countries such as Japan and Taiwan, which periodically experience earthquakes and typhoons. The prospect of such unscheduled interruptions may continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict either their occurrence, duration or cessation. We do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We may not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by tax effects of share-based compensation; by changes in tax exempt investments; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions, or interpretations thereof. Significant judgment will be required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”), which we adopted on January 1, 2007. In addition, FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could 21 Table of Contents adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There may be exposure that the outcomes from these examinations will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 