Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis Annual Report includes descriptions of our current business, operations, assets and other matters affecting the Company as well as “forward-looking statements” as defined by federal securities laws. All forward-looking statements by the Company, including verbal statements, are intended to qualify for the protections afforded forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectation, judgment, belief, assumption, estimate or forecast about future events, circumstances or results and may address business conditions and prospects, strategy, capital structure, debt and cash levels, sales, profits, earnings, markets, products, technology, operations, customers, raw materials, claims and litigation, financial condition, and accounting policies among other matters. Words such as, but not limited to, “will,” “may,” “should,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “seeks,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “optimistic,” “likely,” “would,” “could,” and similar expressions or phrases identify forward-looking statements. All descriptions of our business, operations and assets, as well as all forward-looking statements, involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in business generally and the markets in which the Company operates or proposes to operate. Other risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Company’s businesses including businesses the Company acquires. There may be risks and uncertainties not currently known to us. The occurrence of risks and uncertainties and the impact of such occurrences is often not predictable or within the Company’s control. Such impacts could adversely effect the Company’s business, operations or assets as well as the Company's results and, in some cases, such effect could be material. Certain risks and uncertainties facing the Company are described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report. All written and verbal descriptions of our business, operations and assets and all forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any person acting on the Company’s behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risks, uncertainties, and cautionary statements contained herein. All such descriptions and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such description or statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation, and specifically declines any obligation, other than that imposed by law, to publicly update or revise any such descriptions or forward-looking statements whether as a result of additional information, future events or otherwise.Risks and uncertainties that may adversely impact our business, operations, assets, or other matters affecting the Company, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from expected results include, among others: We are exposed to general economic, business and industry conditions. A significant or prolonged downturn could adversely affect demand for our products. We are exposed to general economic, business and industry conditions, both in the United States and internationally. A significant or prolonged economic downturn, globally or regionally, could have the potential to adversely affect the demand for our products and our results. Raw material prices and availability have a significant impact on our profitability. If raw material price increases cannot be passed on to our customers, or if we cannot obtain sufficient raw materials in a timely manner, our results could be adversely affected. The principal raw materials that we use in our business are derived from petrochemicals and chemical feedstocks. Specifically, Performance Chemicals uses monomers such as styrene, butadiene, and acrylates extensively in its products, and Engineered Surfaces uses PVC, plasticizer and Ti02 extensively in its products. The cost of these raw materials has a significant impact on our profitability. The prices of many of these raw materials are cyclical and volatile. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally affect the price of our raw materials. While we generally attempt to pass along higher raw material costs to our customers in the form of price increases, historically there has been a time delay between higher raw material costs and our ability to increase the prices of our products. Additionally, we may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to competitive pricing pressure and other factors. If we are unable to pass along higher raw material costs to our customers, our results could be adversely affected. We generally have multiple global sources of supply for our raw materials. However, in some cases there are a limited number of suppliers that are capable of delivering raw materials that meet our standards and these suppliers generally have greater pricing and supply leverage. Various factors, including feedstock shortages, production disruptions, natural disasters, the financial stability of our suppliers, supplier commitments to others, and internal raw material use by suppliers have reduced and eliminated, and in the future may reduce or eliminate, the availability of certain raw materials. As a result, higher prices and shortages could occur in the future. Additionally, disruptions in transportation could delay receipt of raw materials. If our supply of raw materials is reduced, disrupted or delayed, our results could be adversely affected. 6Table of ContentsAdditionally, raw material price increases or supply uncertainty may result in customers switching to substitutes for our products. If customers switch to substitute products, our results could be adversely affected. Certain markets we serve are highly competitive and consolidation of our customers and competitors has created increased pricing pressure. If we are required to reduce our prices to remain competitive, this could adversely affect our results. We face continued pricing pressure from our customers and competitors. Certain markets we serve are highly competitive and customers frequently seek price reductions. Customer consolidation in certain markets has created customers with greater purchasing power. Additionally, the size of and consolidation among certain of our competitors means that some competitors have greater financial and other resources. If we are required to reduce prices to compete and we cannot improve operating efficiencies and reduce expenditures to offset such price decreases, our results could be adversely affected. Our sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to develop new products that appeal to customers. If we are unable to develop new products, our results could be adversely affected. It is important for our business to develop, introduce, sell and support cost effective new products and technologies on a timely basis and we make significant investments in research and development to do so. If we fail to develop and deploy new cost effective products and technologies on a timely basis or our competitors develop superior products, our products may no longer be competitive and our results could be adversely affected. We are exposed to credit risk from our customers. If our customers, and in particular, large customers, are unable to pay or timely pay amounts due to us, it could adversely affect our results and cash flows.A significant portion of Performance Chemicals sales is concentrated among several large customers. Our Performance Chemicals segment has several large customers who account for a significant portion of Performance Chemicals’ total sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, any one of these large customers could adversely affect our results. Our customers and suppliers may not be able to compete against increased foreign competition which could adversely affect the demand for our products, the cost of our raw materials and our results. Our United States and European customers and suppliers are subject to increasing foreign competition. If the demand for products manufactured in those regions declines, then the demand for our products manufactured in those regions could decline, which could adversely affect our results. Our business could be adversely affected by risks typically encountered by international operations. We conduct our business in many countries outside of the United States and are subject to risks associated with international operations, including, but not limited to, the following: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•region to region fluctuations in key raw material costs;•transportation delays and interruptions;•political and economic instability and disruptions;•the imposition of duties and tariffs;•import and export controls;•government control of capital transactions, including the borrowing of funds for operations or the expatriation of cash;•difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;•limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;•more stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations;•potentially adverse tax consequences; and•government expropriation of a business or assets.Any of these events could adversely affect our international operations and our results. Our business is subject to the risks associated with the use of chemicals. We are subject to risks associated with chemical use including explosions, fires, leaks, discharges, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruption and acts of God. The occurrence of these risks may result in operating disruptions at our facilities and could adversely affect our results. 7Table of ContentsWe may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our goals under certain cost reduction measures, which could adversely affect our results. We have and are undertaking operational excellence processes using LEAN SixSigma, global supply chain management, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and other initiatives in an effort to improve efficiencies and lower our cost structure. If we are unable to achieve, or if we meet unexpected delays in achieving our goals, our results could be adversely affected. Additionally, even if we achieve these goals, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these goals, or the costs of implementing these initiatives could exceed the benefits of these initiatives. From time to time, we participate in joint ventures whose success depends on performance of a joint venture partner. The failure of a partner to fulfill its obligations could adversely affect our results and require us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures. From time to time, we participate in joint ventures. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our results could be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants could result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans, our results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to identify or complete transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our business strategy. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business. We may not be successful in consummating any acquisition, which could adversely affect our business strategy. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions into our operations, which could adversely affect our business. The integration of acquisitions into our operations involves a number of risks, including: •difficulty integrating operations and personnel at different locations;•diversion of management attention;•potential disruption of ongoing business because of the unknown reactions to the combination of OMNOVA and the acquisition by customers, suppliers and other key constituencies;•difficulties in assimilating the technologies and products of the acquisition;•inability to retain key personnel;•inability to successfully incorporate acquired business components with our existing operational and accounting infrastructure;•difficulty in expanding product manufacturing to new sites; and•inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies.If we are unable to effectively integrate operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner after an acquisition is completed, we may not realize the financial or other benefits expected from the acquisition. Failure to overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition could slow our growth or lower the quality of our products, which could reduce customer demand and adversely affect our results. The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including natural disasters, political disruptions, domestic and international terrorist attacks, and acts of war, could significantly disrupt production and decrease market demand for our products. Extraordinary events, including natural disasters, political disruptions, domestic and international terrorist attacks and acts of war could adversely affect the economy generally, our business and operations specifically, and the demand for our products. In many cases, we do not have redundant manufacturing or transportation capability and thus, any disruption of production or transportation may result in loss of sales and customers. The occurrence of extraordinary events cannot be predicted and their occurrence could adversely affect our results. Extensive governmental regulations impact our operations and assets, and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our results. Our business operations are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local regulations which may have a significant effect on the costs of operations including extensive environmental, health and safety regulations. We are and expect to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Non-compliance with these requirements may result in significant fines or penalties, or limitations on our operations. Such regulations could also restrict or prohibit the use of key raw materials or the sale of our products. Significant restrictions on, or the prohibition of the use of, key raw materials or our products could adversely affect our results. Certain environmental requirements provide for strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for investigation and remediation of releases of regulated materials into the environment at or from properties owned or operated by us or our predecessors or at or from properties where substances were sent for off-site treatment or disposal.8Table of ContentsIt is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future results. Continued compliance could result in significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising out of a release of regulated materials, discovery of previously unknown conditions, more aggressive enforcement actions or new requirements, could adversely affect our results. Capital expenditures could be higher than expected. Unanticipated maintenance issues, changes in government regulations, or significant technology shifts could result in higher than anticipated capital expenditures, which could impact our debt, interest expense and cash flows. Because we maintain a self-insured health care plan for our employees, increases in health care costs could adversely affect our results. We maintain a self-insured health care plan for certain of our employees and certain retirees under which we generally share the cost of health care with our employees and retirees. Health care costs have been escalating over the past decade. Accordingly, as general health care costs increase, our health care expenses may also increase. Such increase in costs could adversely affect our results. If we are unable to retain or hire key employees our business results may suffer. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key employees. Global competition for skilled employees is intense and our business success is dependent on our ability to retain our key employees as well as attract new key employees. If we are unable to retain our existing key employees, or hire and retain new key employees our results could be adversely affected. Some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The failure to renew any of those agreements on terms acceptable to us could increase cost or result in a prolonged work stoppage, which could adversely affect our results. Approximately 10.0% or about 230 of our employees that are located in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements of which approximately 150 employees are covered by agreements that expire within the next 12 months. In addition, certain employees of our foreign operations are also covered by collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that any of our collective bargaining agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on terms acceptable to us. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our results. Our U.S. pension plan is underfunded, requiring significant company contributions. The amount of these contributions depends on plan performance, interest rates, pension funding legislation and other factors. We currently anticipate that we will be required under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to make a contribution to our U.S. pension plan in 2014 of $4.4 million. In addition, we cannot predict whether changing conditions including interest rates, pension assets performance, discount rates, government regulation or other factors will require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations. Additionally, we may not have the funds necessary to meet future minimum pension funding requirements. Failure to protect intellectual property could adversely affect our results. For certain products we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be successfully asserted in the future or that they will not be invalidated or circumvented. In addition, laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure or inability of us to protect our proprietary information could make us less competitive and could adversely affect our results.From time to time, we may be subject to claims or allegations that we infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of third parties. Defending against such claims is costly and intellectual property litigation often involves complex questions of fact and law, and results are unpredictable. We may be forced to acquire rights to such third-party intellectual property on unfavorable terms (if rights are made available at all), pay damages, modify accused products to be non-infringing and/or stop selling the applicable product. Regardless of the outcome, defending against allegations of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation can divert the time and attention of management. Any of the foregoing could have a negative effect on our competitiveness and could adversely affect our results. We could be subject to an adverse litigation judgment or settlement which could adversely affect our results. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, proceedings and lawsuits related to products, services, contracts, employment, environmental, safety, intellectual property and other matters arising out of our business or that of our predecessors. The ultimate resolution of such claims, proceedings, and lawsuits is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, our estimates of liability, if any, are subject to change and actual results may materially differ from our estimates. In addition, if there is an unfavorable resolution of a matter, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows depending on the amount of such resolution in comparison to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the period in which such resolution occurs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have any or adequate insurance coverage to protect us from any adverse resolution. We maintain cash balances in foreign financial institutions. While we monitor the financial institutions that we maintain accounts with, we cannot be assured that we would be able to recover our funds in the event that the financial institution would fail. In addition, we may be limited by foreign governments in the amount and timing of funds to be repatriated from foreign financial institutions. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, or service debt, which could adversely affect our results. 9Table of ContentsOur substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have substantial debt and, as a result, significant debt service obligations. Our substantial debt could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes, the term loan and the revolving credit facility;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including those under the term loan and the revolving credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, pension contributions and investments and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the product categories in which we participate;•limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, and;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We could be required to obtain the consent of the lenders under our term loan and our revolving credit facility to refinance material portions of our debt, including the notes. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, the agreements governing our term loan and our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes will limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot assure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Despite our current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional debt. Incurring more debt could increase the risks associated with our substantial debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including additional secured debt, in the future. The terms of the note indenture restrict, and the agreements governing our term loan and revolving credit facility restrict, but will not completely prohibit, us from incurring substantial additional debt. In addition, the note indenture allows us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances, which will also be guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. The note indenture also allows us to incur certain other additional secured debt. Non-guarantor subsidiaries, which includes our foreign subsidiaries may incur additional debt under the note indenture, which debt (as well as other liabilities at any such subsidiary) would be structurally senior to the notes. In addition, the note indenture does not prevent us from incurring certain other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness (as defined in the note indenture). If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. The indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing our term loan and our revolving credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The agreements governing our term loan and our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock;•pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock;•make certain investments or other restricted payments;•place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•guarantee debt;•create liens; and•enter into unrelated businesses.Our term loan and revolving credit facility require us to meet certain financial covenants, including covenants relating to senior net debt leverage, minimum excess availability and a springing minimum fixed charge coverage ratio if average excess availability falls below a certain level.10Table of ContentsAs a result of these covenants and restrictions, we could be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future debt we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. There are limitations on our ability to incur the full $100.0 million of commitments under our revolving credit facility. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, less customary reserves. In addition, under our revolving credit facility, a quarterly fixed charge maintenance covenant would become applicable if average excess availability under our credit facility is less than $25.0 million during any fiscal quarter. If the covenant trigger were to occur, the Company would be required to satisfy and maintain on the last day of each fiscal quarter a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1x for the last twelve-month period. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility. Moreover, our revolving credit facility provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under our revolving credit facility will not impose such actions during the term of our revolving credit facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on the notes. We are vulnerable to information system failures and attacks, which could harm our business. We are heavily dependent on our information technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory, and bill, collect and make payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized intrusion and other events. Our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could adversely affect our results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot Applicable11Table of Contents