ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Pharmacy Benefits Management Segment Competition in our industry is intense and could reduce or eliminate our profitability. The PBM industry is very competitive. If we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The industry is highly consolidated and dominated by a few large companies with significant resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages, which we do not have. A limited number of firms, including national PBM companies such as Medco, “Medco,” Express Scripts, Inc., “Express Scripts” and Caremark Rx, Inc., “Caremark,” have an aggregate market share of approximately 70% of prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. In most cases, our competitors are large, profitable and well-established companies with substantially greater financial and marketing resources than our resources. If we lose key clients as a result of competitive bidding for contracts, consolidation of clients or otherwise, our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten clients generated approximately 51% of our PBM revenue in 2005, including approximately 21% of our PBM revenue from the State of Louisiana. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer if we were to lose one or more of our significant clients. Many of our clients put their contracts out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expense in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of clients who may need our services. A client involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a client of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, its contract with us. Our clients have been and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressures. 21 Table of Contents If we lose pharmacy network affiliations, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Our PBM operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In addition, some large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains which together control 45% of retail pharmacy business, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. We receive rebates from numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer if: • we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; • we are unable to finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers for 2006, or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements; • rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds; • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or • pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies, does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire. If our business continues to grow rapidly and we are unable to manage this growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our business has grown rapidly since 2000, in part due to acquisitions, with total annual PBM revenue increasing from $4.9 million in 2000 to $650.9 million in 2005. Our business strategy is to continue to seek to expand our PBM operations, including through possible acquisitions. If we are unable to finance continued growth, manage future expansion or hire and retain the personnel needed to manage our business successfully, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our growth in operations has placed significant demands on our management and other resources, which is likely to continue. Under these conditions, it is important for us to retain our existing management, including those from EBRx, MHS, Catalyst and PNNC, and to attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers, managers and employees. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to future acquisitions, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. Part of our growth strategy includes making acquisitions involving new markets and complementary products, services, technologies and businesses. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to such future acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition prospects and negotiate and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions: • we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of an acquired company; • there could be inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; • we may experience difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; • we would be required to amortize the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and we also would be required to reduce our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition. • we could be exposed to unanticipated liabilities of acquired businesses; • our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and • we could lose key employees or customers of the acquired business. In December 2005, we acquired EBRx. We expect to integrate the operations of EBRx during 2006. There are risks associated with integrating and operating newly acquired businesses. We can give no assurance that we will successfully operate this new business in the future. Many companies compete for acquisition opportunities in the PBM industry. Most of our competitors are companies that have significantly greater financial and management resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions necessary to the future success of our business. If we become subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may be liable for damages and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, for example, the performance of PBM services and the operation of our call centers and Web site. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. Disruption of our point of sale information system and transaction processing system, which relies on third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations utilize an electronic network connecting approximately 55,000 retail pharmacies to process third-party claims. This system is provided by a third-party adjudication vendor. Because claims are adjudicated in real time, systems availability and reliability are key to meeting customers’ service expectations. Any interruption in real time service, either through systems availability or telecommunications disruptions can 23 Table of Contents significantly damage the quality of service we provide. Our PBM services also depend on third-party proprietary software to perform automated transaction processing. There can be no assurance that our business will not be harmed by service interruptions or software performance problems. The failure by our health plan clients to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our contracts with retail pharmacies which participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our clients. If our clients delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, lose clients, be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We must devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we substantially comply with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Among the legislation and government regulations that could affect us as a provider of PBM services are the regulatory matters discussed in detail in under “Business—Government Regulation”, above. Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Congress is also currently considering proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our clients do business. Our clients and prospective clients may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by cutting back or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary and give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could greatly limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. MMA creates a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit, which subjects us to certain regulations and scrutiny, even in our limited role as a subcontractor to Part D Plans. There are many uncertainties presented by the Medicare Modernization Act, “MMA,” which is one of the reasons we opted not to participate under the interim endorsed drug discount card program or to directly sponsor a Prescription Drug Plan, “PDP.” However, we do contract with Medicare Part D Plans, as described under 24 Table of Contents “Business—Government Regulation”, above. In the limited capacity of a subcontractor we will be subject, indirectly, to certain regulatory requirements, as more fully described in the detailed discussion of the MMA and its potential implications under “Business—Government Regulation”, above. Risks Related To Our Supplemental Benefits Segment The National Do Not Call Registry under FTC rules may have a material adverse effect on the marketing of our supplemental benefit programs. Over 50 million consumers have registered on the “Do-Not-Call Registry” established by the Federal Trade Commission “FTC”, which became effective on October 1, 2003. This Registry limits the ability to telemarket our supplemental benefit programs. Although we do not believe the Registry has had a material adverse effect on sales of our supplemental benefit programs to date, it could have such an effect in the future. We have experienced a greater reliance on monthly rather than annual sales and a reduction in program renewals as a result of reliance on telemarketing. A significant percentage of our sales of supplemental benefit programs is attributable to telemarketing sales. These sales involve a much higher percentage of monthly rather than annual sales than was our previous experience. This has resulted in higher initial cancellation rates and a reduction in program renewals. If we lose one or more of our marketing relationships, our access to potential customers would decline, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. A significant majority of all of our supplemental benefit program sales is attributable to our marketing relationships with Stonebridge Life Insurance Company, the successor to JC Penney Life Insurance Company, a member of the AEGON Group of Companies, “Stonebridge,” and American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., “Amex”. If we lose one or more of these relationships and are unable to replace them with other marketing outlets, our access to potential customers would decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. If we lose our relationships with the providers of the benefits under our programs, we could have difficulty meeting demand for our programs. We are dependent on third party providers for the benefits included in our supplemental benefit programs. Those benefits are provided pursuant to arrangements with National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh (a subsidiary of American International Group Inc.), Unum Life Insurance Company of America, and others, which may be terminated on relatively short notice. If we were to lose these relationships and were unable to replace them quickly and cost effectively, we would not be able to satisfy consumer demand for our programs. If the providers of the benefits included in our programs fail to pay or otherwise provide accrued benefits, or the extent of those benefits is deemed to be greater than the providers are obligated to pay, we could become subject to liability claims by program members. The benefits included in the member programs are provided by other firms. If the firms with which we have contracted to provide those benefits fail to pay or otherwise provide them as required, or are negligent or otherwise culpable in providing them, or if it is determined that the level of benefits to which members are entitled exceeds the obligations of the providers, we could become involved in any resulting claim or litigation. If we fail to comply with all of the various and complex laws and regulations governing our products and marketing, we could be subject to fines or additional licensing requirements or lose the ability to market in particular jurisdictions. Complex laws, rules and regulations of each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia pertaining to insurance impose strict and substantial requirements on insurance coverage sold to consumers and businesses. 25 Table of Contents Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations can be arduous and imposes significant costs. The underwriters of the insurance benefits included in our programs are responsible for obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for those benefits. If the appropriate regulatory approvals for those insurance benefits are not maintained, we would have to stop including them. An independent licensed insurance agency is responsible for solicitations regarding the insurance benefits involved in our programs. State insurance laws and regulations are complex and broad in scope and are subject to periodic modification as well as differing interpretations. There can be no assurance that insurance regulatory authorities in one or more states will not determine that the nature of our business requires us to be licensed under applicable insurance laws. A determination to that effect or that we or our business partners are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in fines, additional licensing requirements or the inability to market our programs in particular jurisdictions. Such penalties could significantly increase our general operating expenses and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, even if the allegations in any regulatory or legal action against us turn out to be false, negative publicity relating to any such allegation could result in a loss of consumer confidence and significant damage to our brand. Telemarketing is one of the primary means by which our programs are marketed. Telemarketing has become subject to an increasing amount of Federal and state regulation in the past several years. For example, such regulation limits the hours during which telemarketers may call consumers and prohibits the use of automated telephone dialing equipment to call certain telephone numbers. The Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994 and FTC regulations prohibit deceptive, unfair or abusive practices in telemarketing sales. Both the FTC and state attorneys general have authority to prevent certain telemarketing activities deemed by them to violate consumer protection. The FTC has adopted regulations which, beginning October 1, 2003, prohibit most telemarketers from calling a number listed on a National Do Not Call Registry. Violators are subject to a fine of up to $11,000 per violation. Under those FTC regulations, telemarketers can continue to call consumers with whom a company has an existing business relationship and consumers who request information about a company’s products can be called for three months. In addition, some states have enacted laws and others are considering enacting laws targeted directly at regulating telemarketing practices, and there can be no assurance that any such laws, if enacted, will not adversely affect or limit our current or future operations. While compliance with these regulations is generally the responsibility of the marketers and subcontractors, there can be no assurance that we would have no exposure to liability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 