ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects are subject to the risks listed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently foreseeable to us, when materialized, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our shareholders may lose all or part of their investment in the shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our auditors have included a going concern assumption in their opinion. We have sustained substantial decreases in our revenues and increases in our net loss in our last two fiscal years. We have also experienced substantial decreases in our cash balances and working capital during that timeframe. We have incurred substantial operating losses in our past two fiscal years, and may continue to incur losses. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded a loss from operations of $86,331,001 and utilized cash in operations of $46,453,319. As of December 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $10,763,083. In addition, we were in default of $49,161,000 of our convertible notes due July 15, 2015. If the holders of the notes declare the notes due and payable, we presently do not have the ability to pay these notes. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm, in their report on the Company’s 2012 consolidated financial statements, has raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. To meet our capital needs, we are considering multiple alternatives, including, but not limited to, additional debt financing and credit lines, delaying capital spending for future periods, and/or operating cost reductions. We believe we can utilize our properties and land use rights located in Beijing, China to secure such financing. However, we do not have commitments for such funds, and no assurance can be given that the financing will be available or, if available, that it will be on terms that are satisfactory to us. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing, it may contain undue restrictions on its operations, in the case of debt financing or cause substantial dilution to shareholders, in case or equity financing. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may be required to cease all operations and close our company, in which case our stockholders will suffer a total loss on their investment. If we do raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to current shareholders. Any additional funding that we obtain in a financing is likely to reduce the percentage ownership of the company held by our existing security holders. The amount of this dilution may be substantially increased if the trading price of our common stock has declined at the time of any financing from its current levels. We are in default of outstanding convertible notes On July 15, 2008 the Company issued $115,000,000 of its 5% senior convertible notes (the “Notes”). The net proceeds from the sale of the Notes were $110,358,550. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company repurchased a total of $59,339,000 and $6,500,000, respectively, in principal amount of the Notes for cash consideration of $18,478,888 and $3,160,004, respectively, leaving an aggregate of $49,161,000 in principal amount outstanding as of December 31, 2012. This liability of the Company is in default, which was caused by the delisting of the Company’s common stock by the NYSE as described in Form 25NSE filed on April 16, 2012 by NYSE; and by the non-payment of the interest due on July 15, 2012. On April 8, 2013, four of the holders of the Notes filed a action claiming a default under the Notes, which allegedly resulted in an acceleration of the maturity of the Notes. The Plaintiffs had previously commenced a similar action in federal court in New Jersey, but that action was withdrawn and the present action was interposed. The action seeks payment of $20,378,608 plus prejudgment interest and other fees and costs. An adverse judgment related to this proceeding would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity. A majority of our sales revenue is derived from six of our products and a disruption in, or a compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels related to any of these six products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our top six products, namely, Shuanghuanglian Lyophilized Injection Powder, or SHL Injection Powder, CE Gel, Jinji Capsule, Jinji Yimucao, Soybean Peptide Tablets and Boke Nose Spray, constituted approximately 45% of our total revenues in 2012 and 63% of our total revenues in 2011. We expect that these six products will continue to account for a majority of our sales in the near future. Because of our dependence on a few products, any disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing operations, sales operations or distribution channels, relating to any of these products could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits, and in an action claiming we defaulted under the Notes, which could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business We and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit, and in two shareholder derivative lawsuits, each described in more detail in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In addition a complaint has been filed against us by certain holders claiming default under the Notes. These lawsuits and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual costs to be incurred relating to these lawsuits will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of these suits, and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from these matters, and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve the litigation or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to these lawsuits. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations, financial position and stock price. A general economic downturn, a recession in China or sudden disruption in business conditions may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, including pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products, which could adversely affect our business. Consumer spending is generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the level of unemployment, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, war, adverse weather conditions and climate changes or other natural disasters, pandemic situations or large scale power outages can have a short or, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. A downturn in the economy in China, including any recession or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Intense competition from existing and new companies may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing, or can be expected to develop, products similar to ours. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, have greater brand recognition of products that compete with ours, have more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive or have more attractive product characteristics than our current products or products that we may develop in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. We have witnessed pricing pressure on EDL drugs, and those covered by NIC. The lower priced EDL drugs and NIC drugs may lure away customers or patients that may otherwise buy more expensive branded drugs. If this trend becomes wide spread, it could curtail the scale of our manufacture and finally lead to a decline in sales growth and profit margin. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, including Tony Liu, Yanchun Li, and Jun Min. The loss of services of any of these individuals or one or more other members of our senior management could delay or prevent the successful execution of our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Replacing key employees may be difficult and costly and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop and commercialize products successfully. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We have entered into employment agreements with these individuals. We may need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede these objectives. 15 We may face difficulties in implementing our organic growth strategy. Many obstacles to entering new markets exist, such as the costs associated with entering new markets, recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel, developing and implementing effective marketing efforts abroad, establishing and maintaining the appropriate regulatory compliance and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. Our business plan and growth strategy is based on currently prevailing circumstances and the assumption that certain circumstances will or will not occur, as well as the inherent risks and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such difficulties and continue to grow our business. If we fail to manage our growth and current operations, we may not achieve future growth or our expected revenues. In order to maximize growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that expanding our manufacturing and marketing operations is key. However, due to the ongoing economic challenges, we expect to stabilize or even decrease our employee headcount for cost control, which will place a strain on our management and on our operational, accounting, and information systems when necessary. Our need to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, management information systems, reporting systems and procedures to manage our increased operations. If we are unable to implement improvements to our management information and control systems successfully in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in our existing systems and controls, then management may receive inadequate information to manage our day-to-day operations. We will also need to effectively train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. We operate in a highly regulated industry and our business may be significantly affected by the changes in government policies that are not favorable to the pharmaceuticals industry The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated in the China and there have been several reforms in the healthcare policies in the recent years, including the price control polices on the retail prices of prescription and over-the-counter medicines as well as the National Medical Insurance Program. Such policies might not be favorable to our business and our revenue might be significantly affected by further changes in the future. We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement which may undermine our competitive position. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Certain of our products have received trademark and patent protection in China and Hong Kong. No assurance can be given that such patents and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such potential litigation may not be in our favor and any success in litigation may not be able to adequately protect our rights. Such litigation may be costly and divert management attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation would impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Enforcement of judgments in China and Hong Kong is uncertain and even if we are successful in such litigation it may not provide us with an effective remedy. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from third-parties that we may need to conduct our business or that such licenses can be obtained at a reasonable cost. In addition, third parties may file infringement claims against us asserting that we are infringing on their patents or trademarks. In the event that such claims are filed, regardless of the merit of such a claim, we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. We currently sell our products mainly in China. China will remain our primary market for the foreseeable future. If we expand into additional countries, our risk of intellectual property infringement may be heightened. Laws and enforcement mechanisms in other countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as China and Hong Kong. To date, no trademark or patent filings have been made other than in China and Hong Kong. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. If we cannot procure our raw materials from our current sources we may be forced to seek alternative sources of supply, which may disrupt our operations or may result in the supply of lesser quality products. The loss of any of our primary supply sources, or delays, disruptions or other difficulties in procuring these raw materials from our primary supply sources could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, due to the nature of the raw materials, mainly plants, the supply of these raw materials can be adversely affected by any material change in the climatic or environmental conditions in China, which may, in turn, result in increased costs to purchase these raw materials. If we are required to procure alternative sources of supply, our ability to maintain high quality products, lower costs and to provide our products to customers when needed could be impaired, and as a result we could lose business and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 We do not have product liability insurance and we could be exposed to substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Adverse side effects, marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in: · decreased demand for our products; · adverse publicity resulting in injury to our reputation; · product liability claims and significant litigation costs; · substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with consumers; · product recalls; · loss of revenues; or · the inability to commercialize future products. These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale or any product we may acquire. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future. We do not carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance exposes us to risks associated with potential product liability claims, which can be significant. Our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties. We currently carry insurance policies with property coverage of approximately $16.6 million, and motor vehicle coverage of approximately $0.9 million, which is substantially less that the carrying value of these assets. In the event of material loss or damage to our assets, our insurance policies would only cover a portion of the replacement value. Additionally, except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We need to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors, on committees of our Board of Directors or as executive officers. 17 We were late in filing tax returns and information reports as required under U.S. laws, and may ultimately be held liable for significant taxes, interest and penalties. We were late in filing our (1) U.S. federal income tax returns for our taxable years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, including, without limitation, information returns on Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") Form 5471, Information Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain Foreign Corporations, and (2) information reports for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, concerning our interests in foreign bank accounts on TD F 90-22.1, Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts ("FBARs"). Late filings of the IRS Forms 5471 subjects us to civil penalties of $10,000 for each of our 22 foreign subsidiaries with respect to each of the taxable years at issue (for an aggregate of $250,000). In addition, we are subject to civil penalties for the untimely filing of the FBARs of at least $10,000 for each of our 5 foreign bank accounts over the tow year period at issue (for an aggregate of $50,000). Although we do not believe that our failure to timely file the FBARs was "willful," if the IRS were to prove that our failure to file an FBAR was "willful," we ultimately could be held liable for a civil penalty for each such failure equal to the greater of $100,000 or 50% of the balance in the unreported foreign bank account. During the years at issue, our total foreign bank account balances have been as high as about $ 7 million. We have provided an accrual for what we believe would be the potential liabilities for the untimely filing of the IRS Forms 5471 and the FBARs in our financial statements for our year ended December 31, 2012. However, as indicated above, these potential liabilities could be substantially greater than the amounts we have accrued. In addition, because we did not generate any income in the United States or otherwise have any U.S. taxable income, we do not believe that we owe U.S. federal income taxes for the taxable years ended December 30, 2012 and 2011 or in respect to any transactions that we or any of our subsidiaries may have engaged in through our financial year end December 31, 2012. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this position, and therefore we ultimately could be held liable for U.S. federal income taxes, interest and penalties. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with environment protection requirements. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations concerning the discharge of waste water, gaseous waste and solid waste during our manufacturing processes. We are required to establish and maintain facilities to dispose of waste and report the volume of waste to the relevant government authorities, which conduct scheduled or unscheduled inspections of our facilities and treatment of such discharge. We may not at all times comply fully with environmental regulations. Any violation of these regulations may result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits, shutdown of our facilities and obligation to take corrective measures. Our cost of complying with current and future environmental protection laws and regulations and our liabilities which may potentially arise from the discharge of effluent water and solid waste may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government may take steps towards the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations. Due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. If there is any unanticipated change in the environmental regulations, we may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to install, replace, upgrade or supplement our pollution control equipment or make operational changes to limit any adverse impact or potential adverse impact on the environment in order to comply with new environmental protection laws and regulations. If such costs become prohibitively expensive, we may be forced to cease certain aspects of our business operations. Risks Related to Inflation in Raw Materials We purchase raw materials from third parties to manufacture our products, including prescription and OTC pharmaceutical products, and nutraceutical products as well. Recent industry research shows there is an uptrend in the price of raw materials. Such an inflation trend, if continues at double digits, or even triple digits in some cases, may have a negative impact on our profitability. Risks Related to China Compliance with the new Good Manufacturing Practice standards promulgated by the SFDA could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. On February 12, 2011, SFDA promulgated the more stringent new Good Manufacturing Practice standards, or GMP standards. The new standards are aimed at improving drug production management and controlling risks in the production process and introduce internationally- recognized quality control mechanisms. The latest update to GMP standards has greatly raised the bar for quality control, documentation, and overall manufacturing processes. The new regulations apply to new manufacturing facilities effective from March 1, 2011 and the industry has a five-year grace period to bring existing facilities in line with the revisions. A pharmaceutical manufacturer must meet GMP guidelines for each of its production facilities in China in respect of each form of pharmaceutical products it produces. GMP standards include staff qualifications, production premises and facilities, equipment, raw materials, environmental hygiene, production management, quality control and customer complaint administration. If a manufacturer meets the GMP standards, the SFDA will issue to the manufacturer a Good Manufacturing Practice certificate, or a GMP certificate, with a five-year validity period. However, for a newly established pharmaceutical manufacturer that meets the GMP standards, the SFDA will issue a GMP certificate with only a one-year validity period. We have obtained a GMP certificate for all of our production facilities covering all of the products that we produce. We have five manufacturing facilities in China dedicated exclusively to the manufacture of our products. Each facility is GMP certified. We have fully integrated manufacturing support systems including quality assurance, quality control and regulatory compliance. We have developed our own independent quality control systems in accordance with SFDA regulations. Our quality assurance team devotes significant attention to quality control for designing, manufacturing and testing our products, and is also responsible for ensuring that we are in compliance with all applicable national and local regulations and standards, as well as our internal policies. Our senior management team is also actively involved in setting quality assurance policies and managing internal and external quality performance. These support systems enable us to maintain high standards of quality for our products and deliver reliable products to our customers on a timely basis. 18 Even though, from a long term perspective, we believe the upgraded GMP standards will ensure better qualities in the pharmaceutical products that are sold in China’s pharmaceutical markets, in the short run compliance with the new GMP standards could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations with the significant increase for such compliance. There could be changes in government regulations toward the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries that may adversely affect our business. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in China is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Additionally, the law could change so as to prohibit the use of certain pharmaceuticals. If one of our products becomes prohibited, this change would cease the manufacture of that product. The China National Development and Reform Commission, or CNDRC, has recently implemented price adjustments on many marketed pharmaceutical products. We have no control over such governmental policies, which may impact the pricing and profitability of our products. The State Food and Drug Administration of China requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, certifications. We have received our GMP certifications. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry in China may change, which could significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in China. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. 19 Enterprises in China, including FIEs, which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, if within a certain limited amount may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Our wholly owned subsidiaries, Three Happiness, HSPL, GLP, HQPL, CCXA, BOKE, NuoHua and GHK are FIEs to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for RMB against the U.S. dollar remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that it would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, financial condition and the value of our common stock. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as 2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon us and our officers and certain of our directors because they reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and our officers and certain of our directors reside in China, service of process on us and our officers and certain directors may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, our main assets are located in China and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. Any future outbreak of avian influenza, or the Asian bird flu, or any other epidemic in China could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Since mid-December 2003, a growing number of Asian countries have reported outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in chickens and ducks. Since all of our operations are in China, an outbreak of the Asian Bird Flu in China in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, a new outbreak of Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic, may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our customers or partners, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we have operations. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariffs and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, such as Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong, which would limit our international expansion. Most of our assets are located in China, any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are predominantly located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. 20 There have been recent incidents in which patients have experienced severe adverse reactions following the use of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China and the poison capsule scandal. There have been recent incidents reported in the Chinese media of a significant number of patients experiencing severe adverse health consequences following their use of pharmaceutical products manufactured by certain pharmaceutical companies in China. A number of patients have become ill and a number of fatalities have been reported. In addition, there have been incidents reported in China of the poison capsule scandal in 2012, which have shaken the pharmaceutical industry and negatively impacted the market demand. In April 2012, the outbreak of poison capsule scandal was resulted with several capsules recall from a handful of pharmaceutical companies. Although our products were not directly related to the poison capsule scandal and we passed safety inspection, the scandal significantly impacted the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, which shook consumers’ confidence and resulted in a significant decrease in market demand. Our sales are vulnerable to the decrease in the overall market demand, for which our sales may be significantly affected in the future period. Concerns over the safety of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products, including products manufactured by us. If in the future we become involved in incidents of the type described above, such problems could severely and adversely impact our product sales and reputation. Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third- party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for the stock. Our common stock price has experienced large fluctuations. In addition, the trading prices of stocks for companies in our industry in general have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of companies in our industry could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as terrorism, military conflict, recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, may also decrease the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including: ·changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; ·period to period fluctuations in our operating results; ·announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ·changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; ·conditions or trends in our industry; ·changes in the market valuations of other companies in our industry; ·developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; ·announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ·additions or departures of key personnel; ·disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; ·additional sales of our common stock by us; and ·sales and distributions of our common stock by our shareholders. 21 The decrease in our common stock price might negatively affect the support and confident from our business partners, governmental agencies and employees. In recent periods, especially starting from the second half of 2011, financial scandals and market crises have been focused on and negatively impacted most China based companies that are listed in the US capital markets. We were adversely impacted during this crisis which resulted in a significant decrease in our stock price and market capital. The decrease of our common stock price and the negative news may significantly affect our business relationship with our partners, governmental agencies and our management teams, which would ultimately affect their support to our company. Some of our existing shareholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that are in the best interest of all the shareholders. Our officers, directors and holders of more than five percent of our outstanding shares of common stock, together control approximately 39.0% of the voting power of our stock, of which approximately 36.5% is controlled by Tony Liu, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In particular, Mr. Liu owns 1,000,000 shares of Series A preferred stock, which shares by their terms have aggregate voting power equal to 25.0% of the combined voting power of our common and preferred stock. Moreover, this voting power cannot be diluted or reduced by the issuance of additional shares of common stock, meaning that the holder or holders of our Series A preferred stock will always possess 25.0% of the aggregate voting power of our common and preferred stock. As a result, Mr. Liu, or these shareholders acting together, will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change may be in the best interests of all shareholders. In addition, the interests of our officers, directors and principal shareholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders and, accordingly, these control persons could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. We are incorporated in Nevada. Certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, or NRS, could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to shareholders. We are subject to Nevada’s “Combinations With Interested Shareholders” statutes (NRS Sections 78.411 through 78.444), which provide that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a Nevada corporation with at least 200 shareholders cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested shareholder is approved by the corporation’s Board of Directors before the person first became an interested shareholder. Nevada’s “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes (NRS Sections 78.378–78.3793) apply only to Nevada Corporations with at least 200 shareholders, including at least 100 shareholders of record who are Nevada residents, and which conduct business directly or indirectly in Nevada. As of the date of this prospectus, we do not believe we have 100 shareholders of record who are residents of Nevada, although there can be no assurance that in the future the “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes will not apply to us. The “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes provide that persons who acquire a “controlling interest”, as defined in NRS Section 78.3785, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the disinterested shareholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any disinterested shareholder that does not vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares, if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. We may never pay any dividends to our shareholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Our Board of Directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends, if any, will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the Board of Directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive any material comments from the SEC staff more than 180 days before the end of 2012 regarding our periodic or current reports that remained unresolved at the date hereof. 22 