Item 1A- Risk Factors and the following: • significant increases in competitive pressure in the banking and financial services industries; • changes in the interest rate environment which could reduce anticipated or actual margins; • changes in political conditions or the legislative or regulatory environment; • general economic conditions, either nationally or regionally and especially in our primary service area, becoming less favorable than expected resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality; • changes occurring in business conditions and inflation; • changes in technology; • changes in monetary and tax policies; • the level of allowance for loan loss; • the rate of delinquencies and amounts of charge-offs; • the rates of loan growth and the lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio; • adverse changes in asset quality and resulting credit risk-related losses and expenses; • loss of consumer confidence and economic disruptions resulting from terrorist activities; • changes in the securities markets; and • other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business General Southern First Bancshares, Inc. (the “company”) is a South Carolina corporation that owns all of the capital stock of Southern First Bank, N.A. (the “bank”) and all of the stock of Greenville First Statutory Trust I and II (collectively (the “Trusts”)). On July 2, 2007 the company and bank changed their name to Southern First Bancshares, Inc. and Southern First Bank, N.A., respectively. The bank is a national bank organized under the laws of the United States with offices located in Greenville and Richland Counties, South Carolina. The bank is primarily engaged in the business of accepting demand deposits and savings deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and providing commercial, consumer and mortgage loans to the general public. The bank owns all of the capital stock of JB Properties. This subsidiary is for the purpose of owning real estate acquired in loan foreclosures. The Trusts are special purpose subsidiaries organized for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On October 26, 1999, the company sold 1,100,000 shares of its common stock at $10 per share and on November 30, 1999 sold 50,000 additional shares for a total of 1,150,000 shares (1,897,493 after adjustment for our 3 for 2 stock split in 2003 and subsequent 10% stock dividend in 2006). The offering raised approximately $10.6 million, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. On June 26, 2003, Trust I offered and sold $6.0 million of floating rate securities. The company received the proceeds from the issuance of these securities and has reflected the obligation resulting from the receipt of the proceeds as junior subordinated debentures in the balance sheets. The company invested $186,000 in the Trust. On November 17, 2003, shareholders of record as of November 3, 2003, received one additional share of stock for every two shares of stock owned prior to the 3 for 2 stock split. All fractional shares were paid in cash. On June 20, 2006, the company’s Board of Directors approved a 10% stock dividend to the company’s shareholders. The record date was July 24, 2006 and the distribution date was August 14, 2006. All fractional shares were paid in cash. Earnings per share and average shares outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the 3 for 2 stock split and the subsequent 10% stock dividend for all periods shown. On September 24, 2004, the company received $14.3 million from the sale of 800,000 shares of common stock at a price of $17.875 (880,000 shares at a price of $16.25 after adjustment for the 10% stock dividend in 2006). On October 15, 2004, the company’s underwriter exercised its option to purchase an additional 120,000 shares at the same price (132,000 shares after adjustment for the 10% stock dividend in 2006). The total gross proceeds were approximately $16.4 million. The net proceeds to the company after offering costs and underwriter’s discount were approximately $14.9 million On December 22, 2005, Trust II offered and sold $7.0 million of floating rate securities. The company received the proceeds from the issuance of these securities and has reflected the obligation resulting from the receipt of the proceeds as junior subordinated debentures in the company’s balance sheets. The company invested $217,000 in the Trust. Non-GAAP Financial Information This report also contains financial information determined by methods other than in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). Management uses these non-GAAP measures to analyze the company’s performance in comparison to prior years. During 2008, the company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $1.9 million on our Fannie Mae preferred stock. Also, during 2007 the company recorded a $319,291 gain on sale of long lived assets. In addition, the company incurred a one-time impairment charge of $1.5 million during 2005. These items are discussed further in “Income Statement Review – Noninterest income (loss).” Management uses operating measures, which exclude the impairment charges and gain on sale of long lived assets, in the calculation of certain company ratios to analyze on a consistent basis and over a longer period of time, the performance of which it considers to be its core banking operations. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP measures, and furthermore, the company’s non-GAAP measures may not necessarily be comparable to non-GAAP performance measures of other companies. (See Item 6. Selected Financial Data.) Marketing Focus Greenville First Bank commenced operations in January 2000 and at that time was the first community bank organized in the city of Greenville, South Carolina in over 10 years. During the 1990s, several community banks operating in the Greenville market were acquired by larger regional financial institutions. We formed Greenville First to take advantage of market opportunities resulting from this continued consolidation of the financial services industry. Responding to this opportunity, we created a marketing plan focusing on the professional market in Greenville, including doctors, dentists, and small business owners. We serve this market with a client-focused structure called relationship teams, which provides each client with a specific banker contact and support team responsible for all of the client’s banking needs. The purpose of this structure is to provide a consistent and superior level of professional service, and we believe it provides us with a distinct competitive advantage. We consider exceptional client service to be a critical part of our culture, which we refer to as “ClientFIRST.” We emphasize this ClientFIRST culture in the training that we provide our employees, and we strive to reflect this ClientFIRST culture in all aspects of our business. During 2007, we opened an office in Columbia, South Carolina, broadening our market to include Richland and Lexington Counties and utilizing the same client-focused structure, culture, and marketing plan. In conjunction with our entrance into this new market, we changed the name of our bank to Southern First Bank; however, we continue to operate as Greenville First Bank in Greenville County. Location and Service Area Historically, our primary market was Greenville County, South Carolina. In January 2007, however, we entered into the Columbia market which includes Richland and Lexington Counties. 2 Greenville County is located in the upstate region of South Carolina, approximately midway between Atlanta and Charlotte on the heavily traveled I-85 business corridor. It is South Carolina’s most populous county with approximately 428,000 residents. Greenville is also one of the state’s wealthiest counties, with average household income of $51,794 as of June 30, 2007. In the past decade, Greenville County has attracted more than $6 billion in new business investments and 43,000 new jobs and is now considered the “economic engine of South Carolina.” Greenville was also recognized by Expansion Management Magazine in 2007 as the 3rd top real estate market in the country for expanding and relocating businesses. We opened our first branch office, located on The Parkway near Thornblade Country Club in Greenville, in March 2005 and our second branch office, located in the mature and historic Augusta Road area of Greenville, in November 2005. On July 7, 2008, we opened our third branch office in Greenville County, located in the fast-growing area of Woodruff Road. We believe that the demographics and growth characteristics of these locations will provide us with significant opportunities to further develop existing client relationships and expand our client base. Columbia, South Carolina is the State capital and largest city in the State. Columbia is home to Fort Jackson, the largest and most active initial entry training center of the United States Army. Richland County is the 2nd largest county in the State with a population of approximately 357,000 residents, while Lexington County is the 5th largest county with a population of approximately 244,000. From 2000 to 2007, the combined estimated population of Richland and neighboring Lexington counties grew 12.0% to approximately 601,000. The average household income for Richland and Lexington Counties combined was $53,251 as of June 30, 2007. In January 2007, we opened our first office in Columbia as a loan production office which became a full-service branch in July 2007. On July 14, 2008 we opened our second branch office in the Columbia market which is located on Sunset Avenue in Lexington. Lending Activities General. We emphasize a range of lending services, including real estate, commercial, and equity-line consumer loans to individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses and professional firms that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in our market area. Our underwriting standards vary for each type of loan, as described below. Since loans typically provide higher interest yields than other types of interest-earning assets, we invest a substantial percentage of our earning assets in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2008, we had net loans of $559.6 million, representing 80.8% of our total assets. We have focused our lending activities primarily on the professional markets in Greenville and Columbia, including doctors, dentists, and small business owners. By focusing on this client base and by serving each client with a consistent relationship team of bankers, we have generated a loan portfolio with larger average loan amounts than we believe is typical for a community bank. As of December 31, 2008, our average loan size was approximately $213,000. Excluding home equity lines of credit, the average loan size was approximately $290,000. At the same time, we have strived to maintain a diversified loan portfolio and limit the amount of our loans to any single client. As of December 31, 2008, our 10 largest client loan relationships represented approximately $56.0 million, or 9.9% of our loan portfolio. Loan Approval. Certain credit risks are inherent in making loans. These include prepayment risks, risks resulting from uncertainties in the future value of collateral, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. We attempt to mitigate repayment risks by adhering to internal credit policies and procedures. These policies and procedures include officer and client lending limits, a multi-layered approval process for larger loans, documentation examination, and follow-up procedures for any exceptions to credit policies. Our loan approval policies provide for various levels of officer lending authority. When the amount of aggregate loans to a single borrower exceeds an individual officer’s lending authority, the loan request will be considered by an officer with a higher lending limit or by the officers’ loan committee, which is comprised of our four most senior lenders and our chief credit officer. The officers’ loan committee has pre-determined lending limits, and any loans in excess of this lending limit will be submitted for approval by the finance committee of our board or by the full board. We do not make any loans to any director or executive officer of the bank unless the loan is approved by the board of directors of the bank and all loans to directors, officers and employees are on terms not more favorable to such person than would be available to a person not affiliated with the bank, consistent with federal banking regulations. 3 Management monitors exposure to credit risk from potential concentrations of loans to particular borrowers or groups of borrowers, industries and geographic regions, as well as concentrations of lending products and practices such as loans that subject borrowers to substantial payment increases (e.g. principal deferral periods, loans with initial interest-only periods, etc.), and loans with high loan-to-value ratios. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $66.0 million, or 11.7% of our loans had loan-to-value ratios which exceeded regulatory supervisory limits, of which 86 loans totaling approximately $22.4 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. These types of loans are subject to strict underwriting standards and are more closely monitored than a loan with a low loan-to-value ratio. In addition, our allowance for loan loss model considers and allocates a higher reserve for these types of loans. Furthermore, there are industry practices that could subject the company to increased credit risk should economic conditions change over the course of a loan’s life. For example, the company makes variable rate loans and fixed rate principal-amortizing loans with maturities prior to the loan being fully paid (i.e. balloon payment loans). The various types of loans are individually underwritten and monitored to manage the associated risks. Credit Administration and Loan Review. We maintain a continuous loan review system. We also apply a credit grading system to each loan, and we use an independent process to review the loan files on a test basis to assess the grading of each loan. The bank has a chief credit officer that reviews performance benchmarks established by management in the areas of nonperforming assets, charge-offs, past dues, and loan documentation. Each loan officer is responsible for each loan he or she makes, regardless of whether other individuals or committees joined in the approval. This responsibility continues until the loan is repaid or until the loan is officially assigned to another officer. Lending Limits. Our lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by federal law. In general, the bank is subject to a legal limit on loans to a single borrower equal to 15% of the bank’s capital and unimpaired surplus. Our internal lending limit is tiered based on our assessment of the lending relationship. Generally, our limit represents approximately 70% of the bank’s legal lending limit. The board of directors will adjust the internal lending limit as deemed necessary to continue to mitigate risk and serve the bank’s clients. Based upon the capitalization of the bank at December 31, 2008, the maximum amount we would lend to one borrower is $7.8 million. The bank’s legal lending limit will increase or decrease in response to increases or decreases in the bank’s level of capital. We are able to sell participations in our larger loans to other financial institutions, which allow us to manage the risk involved in these loans and to meet the lending needs of our clients requiring extensions of credit in excess of these limits. Real Estate Mortgage Loans. The principal component of our loan portfolio is loans secured by real estate mortgages. We obtain a security interest in real estate whenever possible, in addition to any other available collateral, in order to increase the likelihood of the ultimate repayment of the loan. At December 31, 2008, loans secured by first or second mortgages on real estate made up approximately 79.4% of our loan portfolio. These loans will generally fall into one of four categories: commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, residential real estate loans, or home equity loans. Most of our real estate loans are secured by residential or commercial property. Interest rates for all categories may be fixed or adjustable, and will more likely be fixed for shorter-term loans. We generally charge an origination fee for each loan which is taken into income over the life of the loan as an adjustment to the loan yield. Other loan fees consist primarily of late charge fees. Real estate loans are subject to the same general risks as other loans and are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the value of real estate. Fluctuations in the value of real estate, as well as other factors arising after a loan has been made, could negatively affect a borrower’s cash flow, creditworthiness, and ability to repay the loan. Although, the loans are collateralized by real estate, the primary source of repayment may not be the sale of real estate. • Commercial Real Estate Loans. At December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans (other than construction loans) amounted to $264.6 million, or approximately 46.7% of our loan portfolio. Of our commercial real estate loan portfolio, $151.3 million in loans were not owner-occupied properties, representing 57.2% of our commercial real estate portfolio and 26.7% of our total loan portfolio. The remainder of our commercial real estate loan portfolio, $113.4 million in loans or 42.8% of the commercial loan portfolio, were owner-occupied. Owner-occupied loans represented 20.0% of our total loan portfolio. At December 31, 2008, our individual commercial real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $13,000 to $5.0 million, with an average loan size of approximately $466,000. These loans generally have terms of five years or less, although payments may be structured on a longer amortization basis. We evaluate each borrower on an individual basis and attempt to determine the business risks and credit profile of each borrower. We attempt to reduce credit risk in the commercial real estate portfolio by emphasizing loans on owner-occupied office and retail buildings where the loan-to-value ratio, established by independent appraisals, does not exceed 85%. We also generally require that a borrower’s cash flow exceeds 115% of monthly debt service obligations. In order to ensure secondary sources of payment and liquidity to support a loan request, we typically review all of the personal financial statements of the principal owners and require their personal guarantees. 4 • Construction and Development Real Estate Loans. We offer adjustable and fixed rate residential and commercial construction loans to builders and developers and to consumers who wish to build their own homes. At December 31, 2008, total construction loans amounted to $61.9 million, or 10.9% of our loan portfolio. Included in the $61.9 million was $53.0 million, or 9.4% of our loan portfolio, that were commercial construction, and $8.9 million, or 1.5% of our loan portfolio, that were consumer construction loans. At December 31, 2008, our commercial construction and development real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $11,000 to $3.7 million, with an average loan size of approximately $825,000. At December 31, 2008, our individual residential construction and development real estate loans ranged in size from approximately $56,000 to $1.1 million, with an average loan size of approximately $405,000. The duration of our construction and development loans generally is limited to 18 months, although payments may be structured on a longer amortization basis. Commercial construction and development loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and sometimes on the sale of the property. Specific risks include: • cost overruns; • mismanaged construction; • inferior or improper construction techniques; • economic changes or downturns during construction; • a downturn in the real estate market; • rising interest rates which may prevent sale of the property; and • failure to sell completed projects in a timely manner. We attempt to reduce the risk associated with construction and development loans by obtaining personal guarantees where possible and by keeping the loan-to-value ratio of the completed project at or below 80%. • Residential Real Estate Loans and Home Equity Loans. We do not generally originate traditional long term residential mortgages, but we do issue traditional second mortgage residential real estate loans and home equity lines of credit. At December 31, 2008, residential real estate loans (other than construction loans) amounted to $123.3 million, or 21.8% of our loan portfolio. Included in the residential real estate loans was $60.3 million, or 10.7% of our loan portfolio, in first and second mortgages on individuals’ homes, and $63.0 million, or 11.1% of our loan portfolio, in home equity loans. At December 31, 2008, our individual residential real estate loans ranged in size from $5,300 to $2.7 million, with an average loan size of approximately $281,000. Generally, we limit the loan-to-value ratio on our residential real estate loans to 85%. We offer fixed and adjustable rate residential real estate loans with terms of up to 30 years. We typically offer these fixed rate loans through a third party rather than originating and retaining these loans ourselves. We also offer home equity lines of credit. At December 31, 2008, our individual home equity lines of credit ranged in size from $1,000 to $1.8 million, with an average of approximately $107,000. Our underwriting criteria and the risks associated with home equity loans and lines of credit are generally the same as those for first mortgage loans. Home equity lines of credit typically have terms of five years or less. We generally limit the extension of credit to 90% of the available equity of each property, although we may extend up to 100% of the available equity. Commercial Business Loans. We make loans for commercial purposes in various lines of businesses, including the manufacturing, service industry, and professional service areas. At December 31, 2008, commercial business loans amounted to $106.5 million, or 18.8% of our loan portfolio, and ranged in size from approximately $1,000 to $2.7 million, with an average loan size of approximately $156,000. Commercial loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first or second mortgages on real estate because commercial loans may be unsecured, or if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease than real estate. We are eligible to offer small business loans utilizing government enhancements such as the Small Business Administration’s (“SBA”) 7(a) program and SBA’s 504 programs. These loans typically are partially guaranteed by the government, which helps to reduce their risk. Government guarantees of SBA loans do not exceed, and are generally less than, 80% of the loan. As of December 31, 2008, we had not originated any small business loans utilizing government enhancements. Consumer Loans. We make a variety of loans to individuals for personal and household purposes, including secured and unsecured installment loans and revolving lines of credit. Consumer loans are underwritten based on the borrower’s income, current debt level, past credit history, and the availability and value of collateral. Consumer rates are both fixed and variable, with terms negotiable. At December 31, 2008, consumer loans amounted to $11.2 million, or 2.0% of our loan portfolio, and ranged in size from $100 to $886,000, with an average loan size of approximately $21,000. Our installment loans typically amortize over periods up to 60 months. We will offer consumer loans with a single maturity date when a specific source of repayment is available. We typically require monthly payments of interest and a portion of the principal on our revolving loan products. Consumer loans are generally considered to have greater risk than first or second mortgages on real estate because they may be unsecured, or, if they are secured, the value of the collateral may be difficult to assess and more likely to decrease in value than real estate. 5 Deposit Services Our principal source of funds is core deposits. We offer a full range of deposit services, including checking accounts, commercial checking accounts, savings accounts, and other time deposits of various types, ranging from daily money market accounts to long-term certificates of deposit. Because of the historically low interest rate environment in the last three years, we have chosen to obtain a portion of our deposits from outside our local markets. Our out-of-market, or wholesale, certificates of deposits represented 42.8% of total deposits at December 31, 2008. The deposits obtained outside of our market area generally have lower rates than rates being offered for certificates of deposits in our local market. This funding strategy allowed us to operate in only four locations, maintain a smaller staff, and not incur significant marketing costs to advertise deposit rates, which in turn has allowed us to maintain our focus on growing our loan portfolio. In an effort to obtain lower costing deposits, we are focusing on expanding our retail deposit program. Accordingly, we opened two new retail deposit offices in July 2008, which will assist us in obtaining low cost transaction accounts that are less affected by rising rates. Deposit rates are reviewed regularly by senior management of the bank. We believe that the rates we offer are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our area. We focus on customer service and our ClientFIRST culture to attract and retain deposits. Other Banking Services We offer other bank services including safe deposit boxes, traveler’s checks, direct deposit, United States Savings Bonds, and banking by mail. We earn fees for most of these services, including debit and credit card transactions, sales of checks, and wire transfers. We also receive ATM transaction fees from transactions performed by our clients. We are associated with the Honor, Cirrus, and Master-Money ATM networks, which are available to our clients throughout the country. Since we outsource our ATM services, we are charged related transaction fees from our ATM service provider. We have contracted with Fidelity Integrated Financial Solutions, an outside computer service company, to provide our core data processing services and our ATM processing. By outsourcing these services, we believe we are able to reduce our overhead by matching the expense in each period to the transaction volume that occurs during the period, as a significant portion of the fee charged is directly related to the number of loan and deposit accounts and the related number of transactions we have during the period. We believe that by being associated with a shared network of ATMs, we are better able to serve our clients and are able to attract clients who are accustomed to the convenience of using ATMs, although we do not believe that maintaining this association is critical to our success. We also offer Internet banking services, bill payment services, and cash management services. We do not expect to exercise trust powers during our next few years of operations. Competition The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. Competition among financial institutions is based upon interest rates offered on deposit accounts, interest rates charged on loans, other credit and service charges relating to loans, the quality and scope of the services rendered, the convenience of banking facilities, and, in the case of loans to commercial borrowers, relative lending limits. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in Greenville and Richland Counties and elsewhere. As of June 30, 2008, there were 34 financial institutions other than us in our primary market, Greenville County and 30 other financial institutions in the Columbia market. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources and lending limits, such as BB&T, Bank of America, Wachovia, and Carolina First Bank. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that we do not provide. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks. We believe our commitment to quality and personalized banking services through our ClientFIRST culture is a factor that contributes to our competitiveness and success. 6 Market Share As of June 30, 2008, the most recent date for which market data is available, total deposits in the bank’s primary service area, Greenville County, were over $12.3 billion, which represented a 5.5% deposit increase from 2007. At June 30, 2008, our deposits represented 3.8% of the market. We first entered the retail deposit market in Columbia as a full-service branch office in July 2007. Our service area in the Columbia market includes both Lexington and Richland counties which combined represented over $13.3 billion in deposits as of June 30, 2008, an 8.0% increase from 2007. Our deposits represent 0.13% of the market. Employees At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we employed a total of 91 and 77 full-time equivalent employees, respectively. We provide our full-term employees and certain part-time employees with a comprehensive program of benefits, including medical benefits, life insurance, long-term disability coverage and a 401(k) plan. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers its employee relations to be excellent. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Both the company and the bank are subject to extensive state and federal banking laws and regulations that impose specific requirements or restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of virtually all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The following summary is qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions discussed. Changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on our business and prospects. Our operations may be affected by legislative changes and the policies of various regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the effect that fiscal or monetary policies, economic control, or new federal or state legislation may have on our business and earnings in the future. The following discussion is not intended to be a complete list of all the activities regulated by the banking laws or of the impact of such laws and regulations on our operations. It is intended only to briefly summarize some material provisions. Southern First Bancshares, Inc. We own 100% of the outstanding capital stock of the bank, and therefore we are considered to be a bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “Bank Holding Company Act”). As a result, we are primarily subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve") under the Bank Holding Company Act and its regulations promulgated thereunder. Moreover, as a bank holding company of a bank located in South Carolina, we also are subject to the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act. Permitted Activities. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, a bank holding company is generally permitted to engage in, or acquire direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in, the following activities: • banking or managing or controlling banks; • furnishing services to or performing services for our subsidiaries; and • any activity that the Federal Reserve determines to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking. Activities that the Federal Reserve has found to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking include: • factoring accounts receivable; • making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans and usual related activities; • leasing personal or real property; • operating a non-bank depository institution, such as a savings association; • trust company functions; • financial and investment advisory activities; 7 • conducting discount securities brokerage activities; • underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments; • providing specified management consulting and counseling activities; • performing selected data processing services and support services; • acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions; and • performing selected insurance underwriting activities. As a bank holding company we also can elect to be treated as a “financial holding company,” which would allow us to engage in a broader array of activities. In summary, a financial holding company can engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complimentary to financial activities, including insurance underwriting, sales and brokerage activities, providing financial and investment advisory services, underwriting services and limited merchant banking activities. We have not sought financial holding company status, but may elect such status in the future as our business matures. If we were to elect financial holding company status, each insured depository institution we control would have to be well capitalized, well managed and have at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act as discussed below. The Federal Reserve has the authority to order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any of these activities or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when it has reasonable cause to believe that the bank holding company’s continued ownership, activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of it or any of its bank subsidiaries. Change in Control. In addition, and subject to certain exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with regulations promulgated there under, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company. Following the relaxing of these restrictions by the Federal Reserve in September 2008, control will be rebuttably presumed to exist if a person acquires more than 33% of the total equity of a bank or bank holding company, of which it may own, control or have the power to vote not more than 15% of any class of voting securities. Source of Strength. In accordance with Federal Reserve Board policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength to the bank and to commit resources to support the bank in circumstances in which we might not otherwise do so. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a non-bank subsidiary, other than a non-bank subsidiary of a bank, upon the Federal Reserve's determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any depository institution subsidiary of a bank holding company. Additionally, federal bank regulatory authorities have additional discretion to require a bank holding company to divest itself of any bank or non-bank subsidiaries if the agency determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution’s financial condition. Further, any loans by bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank at a certain level would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority payment. Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve Board imposes certain capital requirements on the bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of “qualifying” capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under “Southern First Bank - Capital Regulations.” Subject to our capital requirements and certain other restrictions, we are able to borrow money to make capital contributions to the bank, and these loans may be repaid from dividends paid from the bank to the company. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory restrictions as described below in “Southern First Bank – Dividends.” We are also able to raise capital for contribution to the bank by issuing securities without having to receive regulatory approval, subject to compliance with federal and state securities laws. South Carolina State Regulation. As a South Carolina bank holding company under the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, we are subject to limitations on sale or merger and to regulation by the South Carolina Board of Financial Institutions (the "S.C. Board"). We are not required to obtain the approval of the S.C. Board prior to acquiring the capital stock of a national bank, but we must notify them at least 15 days prior to doing so. We must receive the Board’s approval prior to engaging in the acquisition of a South Carolina state chartered bank or another South Carolina bank holding company. 8 Southern First Bank, N.A. The bank operates as a national banking association incorporated under the laws of the United States and subject to examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"). Deposits in the bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to a maximum amount, which is currently $100,000 for each non-retirement depositor and $250,000 for certain retirement-account depositors. However, the FDIC has increased the coverage up to $250,000 for each non-retirement depositor through December 31, 2009, and the bank is participating in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (discussed below in greater detail) which, in part, fully insures non-interest bearing transaction accounts. The OCC and the FDIC regulate or monitor virtually all areas of the bank’s operations, including • security devices and procedures; • adequacy of capitalization and loss reserves; • loans; • investments; • borrowings; • deposits; • mergers; • issuances of securities; • payment of dividends; • interest rates payable on deposits; • interest rates or fees chargeable on loans; • establishment of branches; • corporate reorganizations; • maintenance of books and records; and • adequacy of staff training to carry on safe lending and deposit gathering practices. The OCC requires the bank to maintain specified capital ratios and imposes limitations on the bank’s aggregate investment in real estate, bank premises, and furniture and fixtures. Two categories of regulatory capital are used in calculating these ratios—Tier 1 capital and total capital. Tier 1 capital generally includes common equity, retained earnings, a limited amount of qualifying preferred stock, and qualifying minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries, reduced by goodwill and certain other intangible assets, such as core deposit intangibles, and certain other assets. Total capital generally consists of Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital, which includes the allowance for loan losses, preferred stock that did not qualify as Tier 1 capital, certain types of subordinated debt and a limited amount of other items. The bank is required to calculate three ratios: the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, the ratio of Total capital to risk-weighted assets, and the “leverage ratio,” which is the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets on a non-risk-adjusted basis. For the two ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets, certain assets, such as cash and U.S. Treasury securities, have a zero risk weighting. Others, such as commercial and consumer loans, have a 100% risk weighting. Some assets, notably purchase-money loans secured by first-liens on residential real property, are risk-weighted at 50%. Assets also include amounts that represent the potential funding of off-balance sheet obligations such as loan commitments and letters of credit. These potential assets are assigned to risk categories in the same manner as funded assets. The total assets in each category are multiplied by the appropriate risk weighting to determine risk-adjusted assets for the capital calculations. The minimum capital ratios for both the company and the bank are generally 8% for total capital, 4% for Tier 1 capital and 4% for leverage. To be eligible to be classified as “well-capitalized,” the bank must generally maintain a total capital ratio of 10% or more, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or more, and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. Certain implications of the regulatory capital classification system are discussed in greater detail below. The OCC also requires the bank to prepare annual reports on the bank’s financial condition and to conduct an annual audit of its financial affairs in compliance with its minimum standards and procedures 9 All insured institutions must undergo regular on-site examinations by their appropriate banking agency. The cost of examinations of insured depository institutions and any affiliates may be assessed by the appropriate federal banking agency against each institution or affiliate as it deems necessary or appropriate. Insured institutions are required to submit annual reports to the FDIC, their federal regulatory agency, and state supervisor when applicable. The FDIC has developed a method for insured depository institutions to provide supplemental disclosure of the estimated fair market value of assets and liabilities, to the extent feasible and practicable, in any balance sheet, financial statement, report of condition or any other report of any insured depository institution. The federal banking regulatory agencies to prescribe, by regulation, standards for all insured depository institutions and depository institution holding companies relating, among other things, to the following: • internal controls; • information systems and audit systems; • loan documentation; • credit underwriting; • interest rate risk exposure; and • asset quality. Prompt Corrective Action. As an insured depository institution, the bank is required to comply with the capital requirements promulgated under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the OCC’s prompt corrective action regulations thereunder, which set forth five capital categories, each with specific regulatory consequences. Under these regulations, the categories are: Ÿ Well Capitalized — The institution exceeds the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. A well capitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater and (iv) that is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. Ÿ Adequately Capitalized — The institution meets the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. No capital distribution may be made that would result in the institution becoming undercapitalized. An adequately capitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of 4% or greater and (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of 4% or greater or a leverage capital ratio of 3% or greater if the institution is rated composite 1 under the CAMELS (Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, Liquidity and Sensitivity to market risk) rating system. Ÿ Undercapitalized — The institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. An undercapitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of less than 8% or (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of less than 4% or (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of less than 4%, or if the institution is rated a composite 1 under the CAMEL rating system, a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. Ÿ Significantly Undercapitalized — The institution is significantly below the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. A significantly undercapitalized institution is one (i) having a total capital ratio of less than 6% or (ii) having a tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or (iii) having a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. Ÿ Critically Undercapitalized — The institution fails to meet a critical capital level set by the appropriate federal banking agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is one having a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. If the OCC determines, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition, the regulator is authorized to reclassify the bank to the next lower capital category (other than critically undercapitalized) and require the submission of a plan to correct the unsafe or unsound condition. 10 If the bank is not well capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval and, if approval is granted, cannot offer an effective yield in excess of 75 basis points on interests paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity in such institution’s normal market area for deposits accepted from within its normal market area, or national rate paid on deposits of comparable size and maturity for deposits accepted outside the bank’s normal market area. Moreover, if the bank becomes less than adequately capitalized, it must adopt a capital restoration plan acceptable to the OCC that is subject to a limited performance guarantee by the corporation. The bank also would become subject to increased regulatory oversight, and is increasingly restricted in the scope of its permissible activities. Each company having control over an undercapitalized institution also must provide a limited guarantee that the institution will comply with its capital restoration plan. Except under limited circumstances consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, an undercapitalized institution may not grow. An undercapitalized institution may not acquire another institution, establish additional branch offices or engage in any new line of business unless determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency to be consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, or unless the FDIC determines that the proposed action will further the purpose of prompt corrective action. The appropriate federal banking agency may take any action authorized for a significantly undercapitalized institution if an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails in any material respect to implement a plan accepted by the agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is subject to having a receiver or conservator appointed to manage its affairs and for loss of its charter to conduct banking activities. An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution, would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. Thus, if payment of such a management fee or the making of such would cause the bank to become undercapitalized, it could not pay a management fee or dividend to us. As of December 31, 2008, the bank was deemed to be “well capitalized.” Standards for Safety and Soundness. The FDIA also requires the federal banking regulatory agencies to prescribe, by regulation or guideline, operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest rate risk exposure; and (v) asset growth. The agencies also must prescribe standards for asset quality, earnings, and stock valuation, as well as standards for compensation, fees and benefits. The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations and Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness (“Guidelines”) to implement these required standards. The Guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. Under the regulations, if the OCC determines that the bank fails to meet any standards prescribed by the Guidelines, the agency may require the bank to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard, as required by the OCC. The final regulations establish deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives to Address Financial and Economic Crises. The Congress, Treasury Department and the federal banking regulators, including the FDIC, have taken broad action since early September 2008 to address volatility in the U.S. banking system. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was enacted. The EESA authorizes the Treasury Department to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies in a troubled asset relief program (“TARP”). The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury Department has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). Under the CPP, Treasury will purchase debt or equity securities from participating institutions. The TARP also will include direct purchases or guarantees of troubled assets of financial institutions. Participants in the CPP are subject to executive compensation limits and are encouraged to expand their lending and mortgage loan modifications. On February 27, 2009, as part of the TARP CPP, Southern First entered into a Letter Agreement and Securities Purchase Agreement (collectively, the “CPP Purchase Agreement”) with the Treasury Department, pursuant to which Southern First sold (i) 17,299 shares of Southern First’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T (the “Series T Preferred Stock”) and (ii) a warrant (the “CPP Warrant”) to purchase 330,554 shares of Southern First’s common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.3 million in cash. The Series T Preferred Stock will qualify as Tier 1 capital and will be entitled to cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and 9% per annum thereafter. Southern First must consult with the OCC before it may redeem the Series T Preferred Stock but, contrary to the original restrictions in the EESA, will not necessarily be required to raise additional equity capital in order to redeem this stock. The Warrant has a 10-year term and is immediately exercisable upon its issuance, with an exercise price, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, equal to $7.85 per share of the common stock. Please see the Form 8-K we filed with the SEC on March 3, 2009, for additional information about the Series T Preferred Stock and the Warrant. EESA also increased FDIC deposit insurance on most accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. 11 Following a systemic risk determination, the FDIC established the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) on October 14, 2008. The TLGP includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”), which provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2009 for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts) and certain funds swept into noninterest-bearing savings accounts. Institutions participating in the TLGP pay a 10 basis points fee (annualized) on the balance of each covered account in excess of $250,000, while the extra deposit insurance is in place. The TLGP also includes the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”), under which the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than June 30, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity’s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Depending on the term of the debt maturity, the nonrefundable DGP fee ranges from 50 to 100 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012. The TAGP and DGP are in effect for all eligible entities, unless the entity opted out on or before December 5, 2008. We will participate in the TAGP and have opted out of the DGP. Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC. Southern First’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. The Deposit Insurance Fund is the successor to the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund, which were merged effective March 31, 2006. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the insurance fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against savings institutions, after giving the Office of Thrift Supervision an opportunity to take such action, and may terminate the deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. Under regulations effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC adopted a new risk-based premium system that provides for quarterly assessments based on an insured institution’s ranking in one of four risk categories based upon supervisory and capital evaluations. Institutions are assessed at annual rates ranging from 5 to 43 basis points, respectively, depending on each institution’s risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory measures. Under a proposal announced by the FDIC on October 7, 2008, the assessment rate schedule would be raised uniformly by seven basis points (annualized) beginning on January 1, 2009. Beginning with the second quarter of 2009, base assessment rates before adjustments would range from 10 to 45 basis points, and further changes would be made to the deposit insurance assessment system, including requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. The proposal would impose higher assessment rates on institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and on institutions which rely significantly on brokered deposits (but, for well-managed and well-capitalized institutions, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth). The proposal would reduce assessment rates for institutions that hold long-term unsecured debt and, for smaller institutions, high levels of Tier 1 (defined below) capital. In addition, on February 27, 2009, the FDIC approved an interim rule to raise 2009 second quarter deposit insurance premiums for Risk Category I banks from 10 to 14 basis points to 12 to 16 basis points. The FDIC will also impose a 20-basis point special emergency assessment payable September 30, 2009, and the FDIC board authorized the FDIC to implement an additional 10 basis-point premium in any quarter. We anticipate our future insurance costs to be higher than in previous periods. However, we are not currently able to accurately determine the amount of additional cost. FDIC insured institutions are required to pay a Financing Corporation assessment, in order to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s. For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2008, the Financing Corporation assessment equaled 1.61 basis points for each $100 in domestic deposits. These assessments, which may be revised based upon the level of deposits, will continue until the bonds mature in the years 2017 through 2019. The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution, including the bank, if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or the OCC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance, if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Management of the bank is not aware of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of the bank’s deposit insurance. 12 Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders. The bank is subject to the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, which places limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of the bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of the bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, each covered transaction must meet specified collateral requirements. Compliance is also required with certain provisions designed to avoid the taking of low quality assets. The bank also is subject to the provisions of Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act which, among other things, prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. The bank is subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, certain principal shareholders, and their related interests. Such extensions of credit (i) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The Federal Reserve Board has issued Regulation W, which codifies prior regulations under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and interpretative guidance with respect to affiliate transactions. Regulation W incorporates the exemption from the affiliate transaction rules but expands the exemption to cover the purchase of any type of loan or extension of credit from an affiliate. In addition, under Regulation W: • a bank and its subsidiaries may not purchase a low-quality asset from an affiliate; • covered transactions and other specified transactions between a bank or its subsidiaries and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices; and • with some exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by a bank to an affiliate must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to 130%, depending on the type of collateral, of the amount of the loan or extension of credit. Regulation W generally excludes all non-bank and non-savings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. The regulation also limits the amount of loans that can be purchased by a bank from an affiliate to not more than 100% of the bank's capital and surplus. Dividends. A national bank may not pay cash dividends from its permanent capital. All cash dividends must be paid out of undivided profits then on hand, after deducting expenses, including reserves for losses and bad debts. In addition, a national bank is prohibited from declaring a cash dividend on its shares of common stock until its surplus equals its stated capital, unless there has been transferred to surplus no less than one-tenth of the bank’s net profits of the preceding two consecutive half-year periods (in the case of an annual dividend). The approval of the OCC is required if the total of all cash dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Branching. National banks are required by the National Bank Act to adhere to branch office banking laws applicable to state banks in the states in which they are located. Under current South Carolina law, the bank may open branch offices throughout South Carolina with the prior approval of the OCC. In addition, with prior regulatory approval, the bank is able to acquire existing banking operations in South Carolina. Furthermore, federal legislation permits interstate branching, including out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks if allowed by state law, and interstate merging by banks. However, South Carolina law, with limited exceptions, currently permits branching across state lines only through interstate mergers. Anti-Tying Restrictions. Under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act and Federal Reserve regulations, a bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying or reciprocity arrangements with its customers. In general, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property, or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these arrangements on the condition that (i) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property, or services from or to the bank, the bank holding company or subsidiaries thereof or (ii) the customer may not obtain some other credit, property, or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. Certain arrangements are permissible: a bank may offer combined-balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products; and certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule. A bank holding company or any bank affiliate also is subject to anti-tying requirements in connection with electronic benefit transfer services. 13 Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act requires that the OCC evaluate the record of the bank in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on our bank. On June 2, 2008, the date of the most recent examination, the bank received a satisfactory rating. Finance Subsidiaries. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA"), subject to certain conditions imposed by their respective banking regulators, national and state-chartered banks are permitted to form “financial subsidiaries” that may conduct financial or incidental activities, thereby permitting bank subsidiaries to engage in certain activities that previously were impermissible. The GLBA imposes several safeguards and restrictions on financial subsidiaries, including that the parent bank’s equity investment in the financial subsidiary be deducted from the bank’s assets and tangible equity for purposes of calculating the bank’s capital adequacy. In addition, the GLBA imposes new restrictions on transactions between a bank and its financial subsidiaries similar to restrictions applicable to transactions between banks and non-bank affiliates. As of December 31, 2008, the company did not have any financial subsidiaries. Consumer Protection Regulations. Activities of the bank are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. The bank’s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as: • the federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; • the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; • the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; • the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; • the Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and • the rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws. The deposit operations of the bank also are subject to: • the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and • the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve Board to implement that Act, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services. Enforcement Powers. The bank and its “institution-affiliated parties,” including its management, employees agents independent contractors and consultants such as attorneys and accountants and others who participate in the conduct of the financial institution’s affairs, are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. These practices can include the failure of an institution to timely file required reports or the filing of false or misleading information or the submission of inaccurate reports. Civil penalties may be as high as $1,000,000 a day for such violations. Criminal penalties for some financial institution crimes have been increased to twenty years. In addition, regulators are provided with greater flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution-affiliated parties. Possible enforcement actions include the termination of deposit insurance. Furthermore, banking agencies’ power to issue cease-and-desist orders were expanded. Such orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice, including restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts, or take other actions as determined by the ordering agency to be appropriate. 14 Anti-Money Laundering. Financial institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures, and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. The company and the bank are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and “knowing your customer” in their dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions, and recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks. Anti-money laundering obligations have been substantially strengthened as a result of the USA Patriot Act, enacted in 2001 and renewed in 2006. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. The regulatory authorities have been active in imposing “cease and desist” orders and money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT Act became effective on October 26, 2001, amended, in part, the Bank Secrecy Act and provides, in part, for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering by enhancing anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: (i) requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; (ii) rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; (iii) reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and (iv) filing suspicious activities reports by brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations and requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. Under the USA PATRIOT Act, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) can send our banking regulatory agencies lists of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. The bank can be requested, to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on those lists. If the bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must file a suspicious activity report and contact the FBI. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which is a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is responsible for helping to insure that United States entities do not engage in transactions with “enemies” of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC has sent, and will send, our banking regulatory agencies lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts. If the bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the FBI. The bank has appointed an OFAC compliance officer to oversee the inspection of its accounts and the filing of any notifications. The bank actively checks high-risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. The bank performs these checks utilizing software, which is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Privacy and Credit Reporting. Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. It is the bank’s policy not to disclose any personal information unless required by law. Like other lending institutions, the bank utilizes credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of such data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (the “FACT Act”) authorizes states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the FACT Act. Check 21. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act gives “substitute checks,” such as a digital image of a check and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check. Some of the major provisions include: • allowing check truncation without making it mandatory; • demanding that every financial institution communicate to accountholders in writing a description of its substitute check processing program and their rights under the law; • legalizing substitutions for and replacements of paper checks without agreement from consumers; • retaining in place the previously mandated electronic collection and return of checks between financial institutions only when individual agreements are in place; 15 • requiring that when accountholders request verification, financial institutions produce the original check (or a copy that accurately represents the original) and demonstrate that the account debit was accurate and valid; and • requiring the re-crediting of funds to an individual’s account on the next business day after a consumer proves that the financial institution has erred. Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies. Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Bank’s monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have major effects upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its open market operations in United States government securities and through its regulation of the discount rate on borrowings of member banks and the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action. New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations, and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to continue to grow our business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it may be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth as we continue to expand, and consequently our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. 16 There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods may exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the rapid growth of our bank over the past several years and our relatively short operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the EESA and the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The EESA was signed into law on October 3, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and may continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. On February 27, 2009, we entered into the CPP Purchase Agreement with the Treasury providing for our issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock and the CPP Warrant to the Treasury. 17 In addition, the FDIC created the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TGLP”) as part of a larger government effort to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the nation’s banking system. The TLGP has two components. First, the TLGP includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”), which provides unlimited deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2009 for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts) and certain funds swept into noninterest-bearing savings accounts. Institutions participating in the TLGP pay a 10 basis points fee (annualized) on the balance of each covered account in excess of $250,000, while the extra deposit insurance is in place. Second, the TLGP includes the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”), under which the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The unsecured debt must be issued on or after October 14, 2008 and not later than June 30, 2009, and the guarantee is effective through the earlier of the maturity date or June 30, 2012. The DGP coverage limit is generally 125% of the eligible entity’s eligible debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 and scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009 or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of their liabilities as of September 30, 2008. Depending on the term of the debt maturity, the nonrefundable DGP fee ranges from 50 to 100 basis points (annualized) for covered debt outstanding until the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012. The TAGP and DGP are in effect for all eligible entities, unless the entity opted out on or before December 5, 2008. We will participate in the TAGP and have opted out of the DGP. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “Recovery Act”) was signed into law in an effort to, among other things, create jobs and stimulate growth in the United States economy. The Recovery Act specifies appropriations of approximately $787 billion for a wide range of Federal programs and will increase or extend certain benefits payable under the Medicaid, unemployment compensation, and nutrition assistance programs. The Recovery Act also reduces individual and corporate income tax collections and makes a variety of other changes to tax laws. The Recovery Act also imposes certain limitations on compensation paid by participants in the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"), which includes programs under TARP such as the Capital Purchase Program in which we participate. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” Because of our participation in the Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the CPP Purchase Agreement between us and the Treasury, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the CPP Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the CPP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Legislation or regulatory changes could cause us to seek to repurchase the preferred stock and warrants that we sold to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program. Legislation that has been adopted after we closed on our sale of Series A Preferred Stock and warrants to the Treasury for $17.3 million pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program on February 27, 2009, or any legislation or regulations that may be implemented in the future, may have a material impact on the terms of our Capital Purchase Program transaction with the Treasury. If we determine that any such legislation or any regulations, in whole or in part, alter the terms of our Capital Purchase Program transaction with the Treasury in ways that we believe are adverse to our ability to effectively manage our business, then it is possible that we may seek to unwind, in whole or in part, the Capital Purchase Program transaction by repurchasing some or all of the preferred stock and warrants that we sold to the Treasury pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program. If we were to repurchase all or a portion of such preferred stock or warrants, then our capital levels could be materially reduced. 18 Continuation of the economic downturn could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in our markets. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession would likely result in the continued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 87.2% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2008. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. A continued economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Our small- to medium-sized business target markets may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties and our financial condition could be adversely affected if it relies on misleading information. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which we do not independently verify. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on key individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our prospects. R. Arthur Seaver, Jr., our chief executive officer, has extensive and long-standing ties within our primary market area and substantial experience with our operations, and he has contributed significantly to our growth. If we lose the services of Mr. Seaver, he would be difficult to replace and our business and development could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan originators, as well as other management personnel, including Justin Strickland, Jim Austin, Fred Gilmer, III, Eddie Terrell, Gwen Bridges, and Mike Strickland. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel, or the loss of the services of several of such key personnel, could adversely affect our growth strategy and seriously harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. 19 The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are exposed to changes in the regulation of financial services companies. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the Congress of the United States of America and the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department announced that Fannie Mae (along with Freddie Mac) has been placed into conservatorship under the control of the newly created Federal Housing Finance Agency. On October 3, 2008, EESA was signed into law, and on October 14, 2008 the U.S. Treasury Department announced its Capital Purchase Program under EESA. It is possible that additional legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. See “Risk Factors – We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities” above. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, we were required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our management will be required to issue a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our internal control over financial reporting, in addition to our management’s assessment. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. We did not identify any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the new rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and our ability to pay our liabilities as they come due. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay semi-annual deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid approximately $290,000 in deposit insurance assessments. Due to the recent failure of several unaffiliated FDIC insurance depository institutions, and the FDIC’s new Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, the deposit insurance premium assessments paid by all banks will likely increase. In addition, the FDIC has indicated that it intends to propose changes to the deposit insurance premium assessment system that will shift a greater share of any increase in such assessments onto institutions with higher risk profiles, including banks with heavy reliance on brokered deposits, such as our bank. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. In addition, we intend to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock that we issued to the Treasury under the CPP before the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock increase from 5% per annum to 9% per annum in 2014, and we may need to raise additional capital to do so. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. 20 We may not be able to maintain our holding company line of credit. We have obtained and fully utilized a revolving line of credit in the amount of $15.0 million. We pledged all of the stock of the bank as collateral for the line of credit which contains various debt covenants related to net income and asset quality. As of December 31, 2008, we were not in compliance with the covenant related to the nonperforming assets ratio. We have requested a waiver from the lender regarding this covenant; however, no assurance can be given that we will receive a waiver. If we do not obtain a waiver, we may be required to repay the loan in part or in whole. Management believes that we are positioned to repay the debt if required. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Dividends from our bank provide one source of funds for our company. The primary sources of funds of our bank are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include proceeds from Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of investment securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We depend heavily on out of market deposits as a source of funding. As of December 31, 2008. 42.8% of our deposits were obtained from out of market sources. To continue to have access to this source of funding, we are required to be classified as a “well-capitalized” bank by the OCC; whereas, if we only “meet” the capital requirement, we must obtain permission from the OCC in order to continue utilizing this source of funding. During 2008, many of the institutional investors began to require that bank participation in the wholesale funding program have an IDC rating at levels that meet their various expectations. As of September 30, 2008, the last published date, our IDC rating was 160. This is considered by most investors to meet their definition as a satisfactory rated institution. Should our financial condition deteriorate, our IDC rating would most likely decline. Such a decline could result in a reduction of some or all investors and could result in higher brokerage costs to the bank. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets, as we did in Columbia, South Carolina in 2007. We may also expand our lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: 21 • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand. To expand our franchise successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we may expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from more established financial institutions. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy requires both management and financial resources and is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. While we generally underwrite the loans in our portfolio in accordance with our own internal underwriting guidelines and regulatory supervisory guidelines, in certain circumstances we have made loans which exceed either our internal underwriting guidelines, supervisory guidelines, or both. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $66.0 million of our loans, or 11.7% of total loans and 88.0% of our bank’s risk-based capital, had loan-to-value ratios that exceeded regulatory supervisory guidelines, of which 86 loans totaling approximately $22.4 million had loan-to-value ratios of 100% or more. Included in the $66.0 million of loans that exceeded supervisory guidelines at December 31, 2008, $28.5 million of our commercial loans, or 5.0% of total loans, exceeded the supervisory loan to value ratio. The number of loans in our portfolio with loan-to-value ratios in excess of supervisory guidelines, our internal guidelines, or both could increase the amount of loss given default on the loan. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 79.4% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Our loan portfolio contains a number of real estate loans with relatively large balances. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and an increase in overall nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 A large percentage of the loans in our portfolio currently include exceptions to our loan policies and supervisory guidelines. All of the loans that we make are subject to written loan policies adopted by our board of directors and to supervisory guidelines imposed by our regulators. Our loan policies are designed to reduce the risks associated with the loans that we make by requiring our loan officers to take certain steps that vary depending on the type and amount of the loan, prior to closing a loan. These steps include, among other things, making sure the proper liens are documented and perfected on property securing a loan, and requiring proof of adequate insurance coverage on property securing loans. Loans that do not fully comply with our loan policies are known as “exceptions.” We categorize exceptions as policy exceptions, financial statement exceptions and collateral exceptions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 3% of the loans in our portfolio included collateral exceptions to our loan policies, which is less than our internal 15% limit. As a result of these exceptions, such loans may have a higher risk of loan loss than the other loans in our portfolio that fully comply with our loan policies. In addition, we may be subject to regulatory action by federal or state banking authorities if they believe the number of exceptions in our loan portfolio represents an unsafe banking practice. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 