risk factors described in this document and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in fiscal year 2007. All public reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available free of charge on our website at www.foundrynetworks.com or from the SEC at www.sec.gov as soon as practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. Explanatory Note In June 2006, our Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of the Audit Committee (“Special Committee”) to conduct an independent review of our historical stock option granting practices. On September 22, 2006, we announced that (i) the Special Committee had preliminarily concluded that the actual accounting measurement dates for certain stock option grants likely differed from the recorded grant dates for such awards; and (ii) we had concluded that the financial statements issued by us relating to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2000 should not be relied upon. On January 22, 2007, we announced the conclusion of the Special Committee’s investigation and its findings. We also announced that our financial statements for the fiscal years 1999 through 2005 would be restated. As a result of the independent investigation, we have concluded, and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants made in prior periods. Therefore, we have recorded additional stock-based compensation expense and related charges, including tax effects, with regard to past stock option grants. We are restating previously filed financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These adjustments, after tax, resulted in an aggregate stock-based compensation charge of $102.5 million recorded in fiscal years 1999 through 2005. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are restating our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. In addition, we are restating the unaudited quarterly financial information and financial statements for interim periods of 2005, and unaudited condensed financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2006. This restatement is more fully described in Note 3, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements,” to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” This report also reflects the restatement of “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” in Item 6 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and the restatement of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. Financial information included in the Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by us prior to September 22, 2006, the related opinions of our independent registered public accounting firm, and all earnings press releases and similar communications issued by the Company prior to September 22, 2006, should not be relied upon and are superseded in their entirety by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on or after September 22, 2006. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Foundry Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation founded in 1996, designs, develops, manufactures, markets and sells solutions to meet the needs of high-performance network infrastructures for Layer 2-7 switching and routing, wired and wireless local area networks (LANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), wide area networks (WANs), and other infrastructure of the Internet. We sell a wide variety of fixed configuration switches and modular platforms, referred to as chassis. Our product breadth allows us to offer end-to-end solutions within and throughout a customer’s networking infrastructure, regardless of the geographically dispersed nature of the entire organization. Our products can be found from the wireless access points and wiring closets connecting the desktops together within an enterprise, to the mission critical LAN backbone and data center. We provide robust and high-performance routing solutions from the Internet core to the edge of Internet data centers and a customer’s network of web and application servers. Our Layer 2 and Layer 3 switches provide the intelligence, speed and cost effectiveness required to support the increasing use of bandwidth-intensive and Internet-based applications. Our high-performance Internet traffic management systems with network intelligence capabilities allow enterprises and service providers to build highly available network infrastructures that efficiently direct the flow of traffic. Our Metro routers are designed to deliver the capabilities and performance needed to provide efficient and reliable routing services to Internet data centers around the world. Our networking products have been deployed in key enterprise, service provider, and High Performance Computing (HPC) markets that include automotive, energy, retail, healthcare, banking, trading, insurance, aerospace, government agencies, technology, motion pictures, video and animation, transportation, e-commerce, and universities. For enterprises, we provide a complete end-to-end solution with our FastIron®, SecureIron®, FastIron Edge®, FastIron Workgroup®, IronPointtm, NetIrontm, BigIron®, ServerIron®, and EdgeIrontm product lines. Our enterprise portfolio of products, combined with our network management and security tools, meets the needs for wireless access, wiring closet, VoIP, data center, WAN access and campus solutions. Our products support a wide array of interfaces such as wireless, 10/100/1000 Ethernet, 1 GbE (copper and fiber), 10GbE (10GbE) and Packet over SONET so that our customers can leverage their existing infrastructures. Our service provider markets include Metro service providers, Internet service providers, web hosting and Internet data centers, application service providers, and Internet exchanges. For service providers, we offer our high-performance BigIron switches, NetIron® Metro routers, and ServerIron web switches. Our switching and routing products can be managed with our IronView® Network Manager products. We sell our products through a direct sales force, resellers and OEM partners. By providing high levels of performance and intelligence capabilities at competitive price points, we provide comprehensive solutions to address the enterprise and service provider markets. Market Trends and Business Drivers The Ethernet switching and routing market appears to be poised for growth. According to the 2006 Ethernet Switch Five Year Forecast Report, published by an independent research firm, Dell’Oro, the Ethernet switch market is expected to grow steadily over the next five years. In addition, Dell’Oro has projected that 10GbE switch port shipments will represent the strongest growth segment of the Ethernet switch market. 10GbE is an evolving communication technology standard that enables data transmission speeds up to 10 billion bits per second. Although 10GbE port shipments are expected to grow in the coming years, revenues may grow at a slower rate due to pricing pressures from increased competition and rapid technological change. Foundry was an early leader in bringing 10GbE products to market. Working closely with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers standards body for 10GbE (IEEE 802.3ae), we delivered what we believe to be the first Layer 3 10GbE switch in 2001. By focusing on the more sophisticated features available at Layer 3 of the Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) model for data networking, we believe we delivered a higher performing 10GbE solution than competitors who merely implemented Layer 2 switching. Since the introduction of our first 10GbE switch product, we have continued to bring new 10GbE products and solutions to market. Our roster of 10GbE customers includes the banking, university, health care, government, manufacturing and entertainment industries, 3 Table of Contents and service providers across the globe. 10GbE is the highest-speed Ethernet available today. 10GbE offers the potential to unify and simplify networking on a global scale with all the benefits and cost efficiencies of Ethernet. In addition to the need for high-performance, high-reliability, and high-availability networking solutions, today’s enterprises and service providers are facing business drivers that place new demands on their networks. These drivers include: • Convergence • Mobility • Security Convergence — Although convergence primarily refers to using the same network for data, voice, and video, it also refers to the demands placed on networks that support mission-critical applications such as accounting, order fulfillment, and other business processes. As businesses seek to accommodate network user needs, adding bandwidth alone is not an adequate solution. Not only have the types of traffic proliferated, but different applications require different levels of network service. This need is addressed by application switching, also known as Layer 4-7 switching. Application switches extend their features and functions by examining data in Layers 4 through 7 of the OSI model. Not only does a Layer 4-7 switch provide benefits such as optimization of computing resources, it can also provide critical protection from external threats such as denial of service (DoS) attacks and address costly nuisances such as unwanted email solicitations, sometimes called “spam email.” This business driver fuels demand for additional features and functions that networks can perform. Supplying these features and functions has the potential to be a significant differentiator in the market. Mobility — Wireless networking has rapidly gained acceptance in the market place. Wireless networking provides many benefits, including coverage of areas that would be difficult to cable and simplification of changes when personnel move within an organization. On the horizon is the larger opportunity of mobility. Whereas wireless networking focused on lowering the total cost of ownership, mobility seeks to enhance return on investment. With advanced features and functions, mobility will enable businesses to achieve productivity gains by seamlessly extending productivity tools to multiple locations. This business driver fuels demand for integration in wired and wireless networking. A company that has considerable expertise in switch and routing has a competitive advantage over providers of wireless devices to the extent that it can offer a superior integrated solution. Security — In today’s business environment, perimeter defenses such as firewalls and intrusion detection are no longer adequate to address security needs. Security measures must now take into account internal threats, network admission control, anomaly detection (non-business-related network usage such as music file sharing), and compliance with policies and regulations. This business driver fuels demand for secure and highly reliable networking that can support additional security features and functions. Strategy Our objective is to be a leading provider of next-generation, high-performance network solutions. We intend to achieve this objective by providing a broad suite of the most cost-effective, highest-performing network switching products. Key elements of our strategy include: Continue to Deliver Products that Meet the Needs of the High-End Switching Market. We intend to continue to broaden our high-end enterprise and service provider switch portfolio to meet customer needs for greater bandwidth, more flexible interfaces, advances in Internet networking protocols, convergence, mobility, and enhanced security. We intend to continue to offer value-added feature sets that provide for reliability, redundancy, ease of use and management of the network, yielding a higher return on investment with a lower total cost of ownership. We have introduced products that implement solutions in five strategic areas, and we intend to continue to enhance our product portfolio in these areas: • 10-Gigabit Ethernet — Our 10GbE solutions have achieved commercial success in the marketplace. Our 10GbE customers include healthcare, government, research, university, and media organizations. As the 4 Table of Contents boundaries of LANs, MANs and WANs continue to blur, companies will want to unify networks at a lower cost, with few management and operational requirements. 10GbE addresses the key concerns facing businesses today — the continued need for additional bandwidth while building a reliable network. Foundry’s new 10GbE offerings include the EdgeIron product family, FastIron Edge and X Series, FastIron SuperX Series, BigIron RX, ServerIron, NetIron XMR Series and NetIron MLX Series. The FastIron SuperX family of modular switches began shipping in 2006 and gained rapid acceptance as an edge aggregation switch for both the traditional enterprise and VoIP market segments. The BigIron RX modular switch began shipment in July 2005 and delivered strong growth as an enterprise core router, high performance computing core switch, and as a data center and infrastructure router for service providers. The NetIron XMR Series and NetIron MLX Series were delivered for beta testing by service provider customers in the fourth quarter of 2005. The introduction of these products is central to our strategy of offering high performance Layer 2/3 10 GbE capable switches from the enterprise edge to the Internet core. • Mobility — Our IronPointtm family of wireless products delivers a complete solution for enterprises of all sizes. This comprehensive wireless product family has been designed to meet current — and future — mobility requirements and support a diverse set of environments. The IronPoint Mobility Series of controllers and access points is designed to deliver best-in-class converged wireless performance in high-density environments. For iron-tight security, the IronPoint Wireless Location Manager is designed to protect enterprise networks from wireless security threats, such as rogue access points and unauthorized users, by delivering real-time, location mapping of all wireless devices. The feature-rich IronPoint 200 Access Point is a cost-effective solution that allows enterprise networks to quickly and easily enable safe and secure wireless access. The IronPoint 200 Access Point can also be connected to the IronPoint-FES Wireless Switch for enhanced management, mobility and security. • Voice-over-IP (VoIP) — An increasing number of enterprises are migrating to converged environments in which voice, video, and data are carried by the same network to take advantage of valuable business benefits such as reduced costs and increased productivity. A converged network needs a network foundation that provides superior performance, high availability and secure, guaranteed voice quality. We deliver high-performance networking products in our FastIron Layer 2/3 enterprise switches and the tools necessary to configure and optimize a converged environment with our IronView Network Manager system. Our adherence to industry and international standards has been validated by our customers who have successfully used a wide variety of IP phones from industry best-of-breed providers such as Avaya Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Mitel Networks Corp., Nortel Networks, Shoretel Inc., and Siemens AG. In 2005, we delivered the new chassis-based FastIron SuperX and the stackable FastIron Edge switch, each with support for both legacy and industry standard 802.3af power over Ethernet, automated Quality of Service (QoS), redundant & hot swappable power supplies, wireless mobility, and a range of VoIP security features. These provide customers the technology needed to power new devices such as IP phones, optimize network performance, and manage network resources. We intend to further develop and expand our networking and management offerings for converged environments so that customers will have more options for efficiencies and productivity. • Security — As networking has become an essential part of nearly all businesses, agencies, and organizations, security has become an integral part of designing and deploying today’s networks and data centers. Organizations increasingly rely on IP networks to deliver applications that are critical to business productivity and profits. Securing this infrastructure against debilitating attacks from malicious users is necessary to ensure sustained business operations. Mobility, convergence, and Web-centric applications are rendering centralized security models ineffective. Today, organizations require distributed, network-wide, security architectures to protect against threats from outside the network and to minimize vulnerabilities inside the network. Furthermore, the line between Internet and intranet is fading fast as users become more mobile and less identifiable. In such an open infrastructure, the threats are not concentrated at a single entry point at the network perimeter, but are network wide. Attacks are also becoming more sophisticated and exploiting application-level vulnerabilities to cripple critical IP services. The foundation for our security model is our reliable, robust, high-performance security architecture. Our architecture is based on our layered IronShieldtm Security Model, with advanced device, network, and service protection features. Our IronShield security is built on a highly reliable, robust, high performance network 5 Table of Contents architecture that includes a range of embedded security solutions. Our packet processors are designed to deliver integrated L2-4 security features, such as Denial-of-Service and CPU rate protection, protocol and spoof attack protection, as well as hardware based access control lists and rate limiting features. Our products are architected with embedded sFlow support, which allows Foundry switches and routers to simultaneously deliver wire-speed packet forwarding and act as network sensors, delivering data in real-time to security analytics products. Our IronView Network Manager (INM) can act as an sFlow collector, and convert this data for input and analysis by a range of security products, including both signature and anomaly-based intrusion prevention system (IPS) and network based analysis (NBA) solutions. IronShield security also includes a range of wireless security solutions, including our RF sensor, which can detect and suppress rogue access points, together with our Wireless Location Manager and Virtual Shield capability, which provides geographical wireless access security. In 2005, we introduced the SecureIrontm product family. SecureIron traffic managers deliver high-performance Layer 2 through 7 switching and security, enabling organizations to achieve a highly secure and scalable network and application infrastructure. These security traffic managers are designed to protect against network- and application-layer threats network wide, at the network perimeter, inside the data center, and within the enterprise LAN. The SecureIron traffic managers are built for inline network-wide deployment to provide perimeter-like security enforcement inside the LAN against threats within the enterprise network. • Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) — Although interest in and adoption of IPv6 is gaining momentum in international markets, we believe the widespread adoption of IPv6 in the U.S. commercial sector is likely to take several years. However, the U.S. federal government has made IPv6 a requirement for its installations. We deliver products that meet the requirements of IPv6 using a phased approach. In 2006, we delivered new IPv6 interface modules for the BigIron RX Series, NetIron MLX Series and NetIron XMR Series. We intend to further develop and deliver IPv6 solutions. Continue to Expand our Metro Router Capabilities to Address this Market and Deliver a New Level of Price/Performance. We remain committed to the service provider and metro provider markets while growing our enterprise business. As these markets regain momentum and growth, we are positioned to provide state-of-the-art solutions. We have product offerings and planned enhancements for Multi-Protocol Label Switching, Virtual Private LAN Services (VPLS), traffic engineering (TE) and multiplexing of different services over Virtual LAN (VLAN). Our superior wire-speed bandwidth and port density accommodate the most demanding metro area networks with room for growth. Continue to Leverage our Product Capabilities to Address Emerging Markets. Our strategy is to position ourselves to benefit from acceptance of Gigabit Ethernet in such environments as metropolitan area networking (MAN), Gigabit Ethernet storage area networking (SAN), VoIP, and content distribution networks. As noted above, the key advantages of 1 and 10 Gigabit Ethernet, such as price, simplicity and ease of use, will allow this technology to migrate into many new adjacent markets over time. We work with select partners when additional non-networking hardware or software is needed for solutions such as VoIP and SAN. This permits us to remain focused on network infrastructure and provide complete solutions to our customers. We also intend to explore additional product offerings in adjacent technologies that would benefit our installed customer base by providing ease of management, cost efficiencies, or productivity gains. Continue to Deliver High-Performance Application Traffic Management Systems. We believe demand for Internet traffic management intelligence capabilities will be a very important growth area for web-based businesses and Internet service providers and an area of increasing importance to traditional enterprise networks. We intend to continue improving the performance and functionality of our Internet traffic management products. Designed to provide the highest level of performance and network intelligence capabilities, our products are designed to enable web-based businesses and Internet service providers to rapidly deliver new revenue-generating applications and services to customers, while providing a high degree of service reliability. Expand Global Sales Organization. We intend to continue the global expansion of our sales organization utilizing a direct sales organization in the United States and abroad, strategic channel partners outside the United States and select original equipment manufacturers. We intend to increase our worldwide sales force and establish additional channel partner relationships to build a greater worldwide sales presence. 6 Table of Contents Deliver World Class Service and Support. We intend to expand our service and support infrastructure to meet the needs of our growing customer base. Our goal is to minimize our customers’ network downtime by offering a wide range of service and support programs to meet individual customer needs, including prompt on-site hardware repair and replacement, 24-hour, seven days-a-week web and telephone support, parts depots in strategic global locations, implementation support, pre-sales service, system software and network management software updates, and technical documentation updates. Sales and Marketing Our sales strategy includes domestic and international field sales organizations, domestic and international resellers, OEM relationships, and marketing programs. Domestic field sales. Our domestic field sales organization establishes and maintains direct relationships with key accounts and strategic customers. To a lesser extent, our field organization works with resellers to assist in communicating product benefits to end-user customers and proposing networking solutions. As of December 31, 2006, our domestic sales organization consisted of 247 sales representatives and systems engineers. Domestic resellers. Our domestic resellers include regional networking system resellers and vertical resellers who focus on specific markets, such as small Internet service providers and the federal government. We provide sales and marketing assistance and training to our resellers, who in turn provide first level support to end-user customers. We intend to leverage our relationship with key resellers to penetrate select vertical markets. International sales. Product fulfillment and first level support for our international customers are provided by resellers and integrators. Please see “Risk Factors — Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control. As a result, our business may be harmed if we are unable to successfully address these risks.” As of December 31, 2006, our international field organization consisted of 121 sales representatives and system engineers who conduct sales, marketing, and support activities. Our international sales organization establishes and maintains direct relationships with resellers, integrators, and end-users. Our export product sales represented 39% of net product revenue in 2006 and in 2005. Information on net product sales to customers attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to Consolidated Financial Statements. OEM/Co-Branding. We have an OEM/co-branding relationship with Hewlett-Packard Company (HP). HP markets and sells our products on a private label basis through their worldwide sales forces. Our agreement with HP provides that they may postpone, cancel, increase or decrease any order prior to shipment without penalty. Marketing programs. We have numerous marketing programs designed to inform existing and potential customers, the press, industry standard analyst groups, resellers and OEMs, about the capabilities and benefits of us and our products and solutions. Our marketing efforts also support the sale and distribution of our products through our field organizations and channels. These efforts include advertising, public relations, participation in industry trade shows and conferences, public seminars, Webcasts, participation in independent third-party product tests, presentations, and maintenance of our web site. Customer Service and Support Our service and support organization maintains and supports products sold by our field organization to end-users. We provide 24-hour assistance, including telephone, and Internet based support. Our customer service offerings also include parts depots in strategic locations globally, implementation support, and pre-sales service. Our resellers and OEMs are responsible for installation, maintenance, and support services to their customers. We provide all customers with our standard one or five year hardware and 90-day software warranty. Our standalone switches in the FastIron Edge, FastIron Workgroup, and EdgeIron product lines have a five-year hardware warranty. We also have four levels of customer service offerings to meet specific support needs. Our Titanium service program provides the most comprehensive support and includes on-site support and delivery by a trained technician of a hardware replacement within two to four hours. Our Gold service program is targeted towards customers who have trained internal resources to maintain their network 24x7. Our Gold program is designed to provide all the tools needed by these trained resources to maximize the uptime of their network. Our 7 Table of Contents Silver service program is tailored for customers who typically purchase spares inventory as part of their overall contingency plan. Our Bronze service program is targeted towards budget conscious customers who are looking for basic telephone and web-based support and run a 9 to 5 operation. We have regional Centers-of-Excellence in Santa Clara and Irvine, California, Denver, Colorado, Chicago, Illinois, Boston, Massachusetts, New York City, New York, and Herndon, Virginia. We also have Centers-of-Excellence in Hong Kong, London, Munich, Tokyo and Toronto. These Centers-of-Excellence include executive briefing centers and serve as major customer demonstration centers, regional technical support centers, and equipment depot centers. Fully equipped to demonstrate our product lines, they also support interoperability testing, provide hands-on training for customers, and showcase our end-to-end LAN, MAN and WAN solutions. Significant Customers Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 29% and 30% of net product revenue for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of continued orders from any of our more significant customers, such as the United States government or individual agencies within the United States government or Mitsui, could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Sales to United States government agencies accounted for approximately 17%, 19% and 27%, of our total revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Please see “Risk Factors — We still depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue” and “— The United States government is a significant customer and has been one key to our financial success. However, government demand is unpredictable and there is no guarantee of future contract awards.” For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no customers accounted for 10% or more of our net product revenue. Manufacturing We operate under a modified “turn-key” process, utilizing strategic manufacturing partners that are ISO 9000 certified and have global manufacturing capabilities. All designs, documentation, selection of approved suppliers, quality control, and configuration are performed at our facilities. Our manufacturing operations consist of quality assurance for subassemblies and final assembly and test. Our manufacturing process also includes the configuration of products in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. We use automated testing equipment and “burn-in” procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection and testing, to ensure the quality and reliability of our products. Our approach to manufacturing provides the flexibility of outsourcing while maintaining quality control of products delivered to customers. Because quality is a priority in our operations, we have a quality council consisting of interdepartmental leaders that meet weekly to monitor quality and to drive continuous improvement. The results of our enhancements are measured by several metrics, including the number of events reported to customer support in relation to systems shipped. We currently have four manufacturing partners. Celestica, Inc., located in San Jose, California, Flash Electronics, Inc., in Fremont, California and Shanghai, China, and Proworks Inc, located in San Jose, California, assemble and test printed circuit boards. Sanmina-SCI Corp., located in San Jose, assembles and tests printed circuit boards and our backplane products. Celestica, Inc., Sanmina-SCI Corp., and Flash Electronics, Inc. have global manufacturing facilities providing back-up capability and local content for foreign sales if required. We perform all prototype and pre-production procurement and component qualification with support from our manufacturing partners. Our agreements with our contract manufacturers allow them to procure long lead-time component inventory on our behalf based on a rolling production forecast provided by us. We may be contractually obligated to purchase long lead-time component inventory procured by our contract manufacturers in accordance with our forecasts although we can generally give notice of order cancellation at least 90 days prior to the delivery date. We also have third-party OEMs such as Meru and Acton who manufacture some products that we purchase and resell under the Foundry brand. We design all ASICs, printed circuit boards and sheet metal, and work closely with semiconductor partners on future component selection and design support. All materials used in our products are subject to a full qualification cycle and controlled by use of an “approved vendor listing” that must be followed by our sources. We perform 8 Table of Contents extensive testing of all of our products, including in-circuit testing of all printed circuit board assemblies, full functional testing, elevated temperature burn-in and power cycling at maximum and minimum configuration levels. Please see “Risk Factors — Our reliance on third-party manufacturing vendors to manufacture our products may cause a delay in our ability to fill orders” for a review of certain risks associated with our manufacturing operations. We currently purchase components from several sources, including certain integrated circuits, power supplies and long-range optics, which we believe are readily-available from other suppliers. Our proprietary ASICs, which provide key functionality in our products, are fabricated in foundries operated by, or subcontracted by, Texas Instruments Inc., Fujitsu Ltd., and Broadcom Corp. In addition, our newer product families integrate customizable network processors from sole source suppliers such as Marvell. An alternative supply for these ASICs and network processors would require an extensive development period. Please see “Risk Factors — We purchase several key components for our products from sole sources; if these components are not available, our revenue may be adversely affected.” Research and Development Our future success depends on our ability to enhance existing products and develop new products that incorporate the latest technological developments. We work with customers and prospects, as well as partners and industry research organizations, to identify and implement new solutions that meet the current and future needs of businesses. Whenever possible, our products are based on industry standards to ensure interoperability. We intend to continue to support emerging industry standards integral to our product strategy. Our research and development operations involve development activities that utilize both custom and commercial silicon, which enables us to quickly bring new products and features to market. We continue to develop new switching solutions that provide new levels of performance, scalability, and functionality. We had 219 engineers at the end of 2006, compared to 204 engineers at the end of 2005. Our research and development expenses were $70.7 million in 2006, $53.0 million in 2005 and $38.1 million in 2004, or 15%, 13% and 9%, of net revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Competition We believe the key competitive factors that affect our markets are technical expertise, pricing, new product innovation, product features, service and support, brand awareness, and distribution. We intend to remain competitive through ongoing investment in research and development efforts to enhance existing products and introduce new products. We will seek to expand our market presence through aggressive marketing and sales efforts. However, our market continues to evolve and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The market in which we operate is highly competitive. For instance, Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco) maintains a dominant position in our market and several of its products compete directly with ours. Cisco’s substantial resources and market dominance have enabled it to reduce prices on its products within a short period of time following introduction, which reduces the profitability of its competitors. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its longer operating history, broader product line, and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that directly compete with our products or render our products obsolete. We believe our technology and the purpose-built features of our products make them unique and allow us to compete effectively against Cisco and other competitors. Although we believe that we are currently among the top providers of networking solutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against Cisco, currently the market leader in network infrastructure solutions. In addition to Cisco, we compete against Extreme Networks, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Nortel Networks Ltd., Enterasys Networks Inc., 3Com Corp., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Force 10 Networks Inc., and Alcatel-Lucent, among others. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater name recognition and larger installed customer bases than we do. Furthermore, companies that do not offer a directly competitive product to our products could develop new products or enter into agreements with other networking 9 Table of Contents companies to provide a product that competes with our products or provides a more complete solution than we can offer. Additionally, we may face competition from unknown companies and emerging technologies that may offer new LAN, MAN, and WAN solutions. As a result, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products to stay competitive. Please see “Risk Factors — Intense competition in the market for network solutions could prevent us from maintaining or increasing revenue and sustaining profitability” and “— Our gross margins may decline over time and the average selling prices of our products may decrease as a result of competitive pressures and other factors.” Seasonality We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products. For example, sales to the U.S. government are typically stronger in the third calendar quarter and sales to European customers tend to be weaker in the summer months. Backlog Our backlog generally represents orders for which a purchase order has been received for product to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Purchase orders often include service contracts which are also part of our backlog. Orders are subject to cancellation, rescheduling or product specification changes by the customers. Although we believe that our backlog is firm, orders may be cancelled by the customer without penalty. In addition, actual shipments depend on the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers and the availability of products from such suppliers. For these reasons, we believe our backlog at any given date is not a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete are heavily dependent on our internally developed technology and know-how. Our proprietary technology includes our ASICs and Field Programable Gate Arrays (“FPGA”s), as well as our IronCore, JetCore, and Terathon hardware architecture, our IronWare software, our IronView network management software, and certain system and mechanical designs. Different variations and combinations of these proprietary technologies are implemented across our product offerings. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions on disclosure, to protect our intellectual property rights in these proprietary technologies. We provide software to customers under license agreements included in the packaged software. These agreements are not negotiated with or signed by the licensee, and thus may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality and license agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, imitate, or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. These precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in some foreign countries in which the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The networking industry’s products are characterized by the need to conform with interoperability standards which may be subject to patent claims. A number of companies in related industries with significant patent portfolios have attempted to extract licensing revenue and our industry has been the subject of frequent infringement claims, and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In addition, many companies in the networking market have patent portfolios. As a result of the existence of a large number of patents and rapid rate of issuance of new patents in the networking industry, it is practically impossible for a company to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components may infringe intellectual property rights that may be claimed by others. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” below for pending litigation related to intellectual property matters and “Risk Factors — We may be subject to litigation risks and intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Additionally, we may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others.” 10 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 816 employees, consisting of 428 in sales, customer service and marketing, 219 in engineering, 94 in manufacturing, and 75 in general and administrative. None of our employees is represented by a labor union, with the exception of several foreign employees who are required by local country employment laws to have labor union representation. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe our employee relations are good. Competition for technical personnel in the networking industry continues to be significant. We believe that our success depends in part on our ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The matters relating to our Special Committee investigation into our stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to civil litigation claims, regulatory proceedings and government proceedings which could burden Foundry and have a material adverse effect on us. Since June 2006, we have been working to resolve issues associated with our stock option practices and accounting. A Special Committee of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (“Special Committee”), with the assistance of independent legal counsel, conducted an extensive review of our stock option practices covering the time from our initial public offering in September 1999 through May 2006. The Special Committee concluded that the actual accounting measurement dates for some stock option awards likely differed from the recorded measurement dates for those awards. Subsequently, we determined that, for the period 1999 through 2005, we had unrecorded non-cash equity-based compensation charges associated with our equity incentive plans. These charges were material to our financial statements for the years 1999 through 2005. As a result, we are restating our historical financial statements to record additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense. Our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed and may continue to expose us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government inquiries and enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” several derivative complaints have been filed in state and federal courts against our current directors, some of our former directors and some of our current and former executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. The SEC has initiated an informal inquiry into our historical stock option granting practices and we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California for the production of documents relating to our historical stock option granting practices, which could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us. We are cooperating with the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California, and expect to continue to do so. We have not been in compliance with The Nasdaq Stock Market’s continued listing requirements and remain subject to the risk of our stock being delisted from The Nasdaq Global Select Market, which would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. Due to the Special Committee investigation and resulting restatements, we could not timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006 and March 31, 2007, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result, and as described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Select Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Global Select Market. With the filing of this Annual Report and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006 and March 31, 2007, we believe we have remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to Nasdaq’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification of us accordingly. If, however, Nasdaq does not concur that we are in compliance with the applicable listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Select Market and it would be uncertain when, if ever, our common stock would be relisted. If a delisting did happen, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock could be adversely affected and, depending on the 11 Table of Contents duration of the delisting, some institutions whose charters disallow holding securities in unlisted companies might sell our shares, which could have a further adverse effect on the price of our stock. The process of restating our financial statements, making the associated disclosures, and complying with SEC requirements are subject to uncertainty and evolving requirements. We have worked with our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC to make our filings comply with all related requirements. Nevertheless the issues surrounding our historical stock option grant practices are complex and the regulatory guidelines or requirements continue to evolve. There can be no assurance that further SEC and other requirements will not evolve and that we will not be required to further amend this and other filings. In addition to the cost and time to amend financial reports, such amendments may have a material adverse affect on investors and common stock price and could result in a delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Select Market. A number of our current and former executive officers and directors have been named as parties to several derivative action lawsuits arising from our internal option review, and there is a possibility of additional lawsuits, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. We are subject to a number of lawsuits purportedly on behalf of Foundry against certain of our current and former executive officers and board members, and we may become the subject of additional private lawsuits. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and such lawsuits. The expenses associated with these lawsuits may be significant, the amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending these lawsuits may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flows. Ongoing government inquiries relating to our past stock option practices may be time consuming and expensive and could result in injunctions, fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The inquiries by the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) into our past stock option practices are ongoing. We have cooperated with the DOJ and the SEC and expect to continue to do so. The period of time necessary to resolve these inquiries is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical stock option grant practices. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices, these DOJ and SEC inquiries and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. These inquiries could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, and could result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and penalties by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. Intense competition in the market for networking solutions could prevent us from maintaining or increasing revenue and sustaining profitability. The market for networking solutions is intensely competitive. In particular, Cisco Systems, Inc. (“Cisco”) maintains a dominant position in this market and several of its products compete directly with our products. Cisco’s substantial resources and market dominance have enabled it to reduce prices on its products within a short period of time following the introduction of these products, which typically causes its competitors to reduce prices and, therefore, the margins and the overall profitability of its competitors. Purchasers of networking solutions may choose Cisco’s products because of its longer operating history, broader product line and strong reputation in the networking market. In addition, Cisco may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that directly compete with our products or render our products obsolete. Although we are currently among the top 12 Table of Contents providers of network infrastructure solutions, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against Cisco, currently the leading provider in the networking market. We also compete with other companies, such as Extreme Networks, Juniper Networks, F5 Networks, Inc., Nortel Networks, Enterasys Networks, 3Com, Huawei Technologies, Force 10 Networks, and Alcatel-Lucent. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market leverage, longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, more name recognition and larger installed customer bases. Additionally, we may face competition from unknown companies and emerging technologies that may offer new LAN, MAN and LAN/WAN solutions. Furthermore, a number of these competitors may merge or form strategic relationships that would enable them to apply greater resources and sales coverage than we can, and to offer, or bring to market earlier, products that are superior to ours in terms of features, quality, pricing or a combination of these and other factors. In order to remain competitive, we must, among other things, invest significant resources in developing new products with superior performance at lower prices than our competitors, enhance our current products and maintain customer satisfaction. In addition, we must make certain our sales and marketing capabilities allow us to compete effectively against our competitors. If we fail to do so, our products may not compete favorably with those of our competitors and our revenue and profitability could suffer. We must continue to introduce new products with superior performance and features in a timely manner in order to sustain and increase our revenue, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. The networking industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. Therefore, in order to remain competitive, we must introduce new products in a timely manner that offer substantially greater performance and support a greater number of users per device, all at lower price points. Even if these objectives are accomplished, new products may not be successful in the marketplace, or may take more time than anticipated to start generating meaningful revenue. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to develop or obtain important intellectual property and accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to develop new products before knowing whether our investments will eventually result in products the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to forecast sales volumes and quickly manufacture a sufficient volume of products and mix of configurations that meet customer requirements, all at low costs. The life cycle of networking products can be as short as 18 to 24 months. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements and in achieving volume manufacturing for such new products. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. During the development of our products, we have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the prototyping of our ASICs, which in turn has led to, and may in the future lead to, delays in product introductions. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 29% and 30% of net product revenue for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of continued orders from any of our more significant customers, such as the U.S. government or individual agencies within the United States government or Mitsui, could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of our products. 13 Table of Contents Although our financial performance may depend on large, recurring orders from certain customers and resellers, we do not generally have binding commitments from them. For example: • our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases; • our customers can stop purchasing and our resellers can stop marketing our products at any time; and • our reseller agreements generally are not exclusive and are for one-year terms, with no obligation of the resellers to renew the agreements. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from a small number of customers. In addition, a change in the mix of our customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. The United States government is a significant customer and has been one key to our financial success. However, government demand is unpredictable and there is no guarantee of future contract awards. As part of the changing economic environment, the United States government has become an important customer for the networking industry, and for us in particular, representing approximately 17%, 19% and 27% of our total revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The process of becoming a qualified government vendor, especially for high-security projects, takes considerable time and effort, and the timing of contract awards and deployment of our products are hard to predict. Typically, six to twelve months may elapse between the initial evaluation of our systems by governmental agencies and the execution of a contract. The revenue stream from these contracts is hard to predict and may be materially uneven between quarters. Government agency contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are often protracted and may contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event funds are unavailable to the government agency. Even if we are awarded contracts, substantial delays or cancellations of purchases could result from protests initiated by losing bidders. In addition, government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in certain areas. If we fail to win significant government contract awards, if the government or individual agencies within the government terminate or reduce the scope and value of our existing contracts, or if the government fails to reduce the budget deficit, our financial results may be harmed. Additionally, government orders may be subject to priority requirements that may affect scheduled shipments to our other customers. We may be subject to litigation risks and intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Additionally, we may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. The networking industry is subject to claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Some companies claim extensive patent portfolios that may apply to the network industry. As a result of the existence of a large number of patents and the rate of issuance of new patents in the networking industry, it is practically impossible for a company to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components may infringe upon intellectual property rights that may be claimed by others. From time to time, third parties have asserted patent, copyright and trademark rights to technologies and standards that are important to us. Third parties may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights with respect to our existing or future products. We are committed to vigorously defending ourselves against such claims. Regardless of the merits of our position, we have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, substantial expenses in defending against third party claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents A number of companies have developed a licensing program in an attempt to realize revenue from their patent portfolios. Some of these companies have contacted us regarding a license. We carefully review all license requests, but are unwilling to license technology not required for our product portfolio. However, any asserted license demand can require considerable effort and expense to review and respond. Moreover, a refusal by us to a license request could result in threats of litigation or actual litigation, which, if or when initiated, could harm our business. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We believe that we have defenses in the lawsuits pending against us as indicated in Note 4, “Commitments and Contingencies — Litigation,” to Consolidated Financial Statements, and we are vigorously contesting these allegations. Responding to the allegations has been, and probably will continue to be, expensive and time-consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our internally developed technology and know-how. Our proprietary technology includes our ASICs, our IronCore, JetCore, and Terathon hardware architecture, our IronWare software, our IronView network management software, and certain mechanical designs. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights in these proprietary technologies. Although we have patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. We provide software to customers under license agreements included in the packaged software. These agreements are not negotiated with or signed by the licensee, and thus may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality and license agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. These precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in some foreign countries in which the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our ability to increase our revenue depends on expanding our direct sales operations and reseller distribution channels and providing excellent customer support. If we are unable to effectively develop and retain our sales and support staff, or establish and cultivate relationships with our indirect distribution channels, our ability to grow and increase our revenue could be harmed. Additionally, if our resellers and system integrators are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Some of our resellers also sell products that compete with our products. Resellers and system integrators typically sell directly to end-users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. System integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of resellers and service providers are also system integrators. As a result, we cannot assure that our resellers will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with adequate sales, marketing and technical support. Additionally, if we do not manage distribution of our products and services effectively, or if our resellers’ financial conditions or operations weaken our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. In an effort to gain market share and support our customers, we may need to expand our direct sales operations and customer service staff to support new and existing customers. The timing and extent of any such expansion are uncertain. We currently outsource our technical support to a third-party provider in Australia to support our customers on that continent. In the future, we may utilize third-party contractors in other regions of the world as part of our expansion effort. Expansion of our direct sales operations, reseller channels, and customer service operations may not be successfully implemented, and the cost of any expansion may exceed the revenue generated. 15 Table of Contents We are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly impact our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We adopted this standard effective January 1, 2006. By causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings, will significantly impact our operating results in future periods, and may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. Each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. Because our financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly, we may not meet quarterly financial expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our ability to increase revenue in the future is dependent on increased demand for our products and our ability to ship larger volumes of our products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Delays in generating or recognizing revenue could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. We continue our practice of not providing guidance as to expected revenues for future quarters. In the future, we may begin to provide guidance again, but could again discontinue the practice if we believe the business outlook is too uncertain to predict. Any such decision could cause our stock price to decline. We may experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenue for a number of reasons. Unfulfilled orders at the beginning of each quarter are typically substantially less than our expected revenue for that quarter. Therefore, we depend on obtaining orders in a quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. In addition, our reseller agreements typically allow the reseller to delay scheduled delivery dates without penalty. Moreover, demand for our products may fluctuate as a result of seasonality. For example, sales to the United States government are typically stronger in the third calendar quarter and demand from European customers is generally weaker in the summer months. Orders are generally cancelable at any time prior to shipment. Reasons for cancellation could include our inability to deliver products within the customer’s specified timeframe due to component shortages or high priority government orders that take precedence to commercial enterprise orders, as well as other reasons. Our revenue for a particular period may also be difficult to predict and may be adversely affected if we experience a non-linear, or back-end loaded, sales pattern during the period. We typically experience significantly higher levels of sales towards the end of a period as a result of customers submitting their orders late in the period or as a result of manufacturing issues or component shortages which may delay shipments. Such non-linearity in shipments can increase costs, as irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and additional costs associated with higher inventory levels, inventory planning and management. Furthermore, orders received towards the end of the period may not ship within the period due to our manufacturing lead times. In addition, we may incur increased costs and expenses related to sales and marketing, including expansion of our direct sales operations and distribution channels, product marketing, customer support, expansion of our corporate infrastructure, legal matters, and facilities expansion. We base our operating expenses on anticipated revenue levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. As a result, any significant shortfall in revenue relative to our expectations could cause a significant decline in our quarterly operating results. 16 Table of Contents Because of the uncertain nature of the economic environment and rapidly changing market we serve, period-to-period comparisons of operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, you may not be able to rely on prior results for any period as an indication of future performance. In the future, our revenue may remain the same, decrease or increase, and we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As a consequence, operating results for a particular quarter are extremely difficult to predict. We purchase several key components for our products from sole sources; if these components are not available, our revenue may be adversely affected. We purchase several key components used in our products from suppliers for which we have no readily available alternative, or sole sources, and depend on supply from these sources to meet our needs. The inability of any supplier to provide us with an adequate supply of key components, or the loss of any of our suppliers, may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders and may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We believe lead-times for various components have lengthened as a result of limits on IT spending and economic uncertainty, which has made certain components scarce. As component demand increases and lead-times become longer, our suppliers may increase component costs. If component costs increase, our gross margins may also decline. Our principal limited or sole-sourced components include high-speed dynamic and static random access memories, commonly known as DRAMs and SRAMs, ASICs, printed circuit boards, optical components, packet processors, switching fabrics, microprocessors and power supplies. Proprietary ASICs used in the manufacture of our products are purchased from sole sources and may not be readily available from other suppliers as the development period required to fabricate our ASICs can be lengthy. In addition, our newer product families integrate customizable network processors from sole source suppliers such as Marvell. We acquire these components through purchase orders and have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing from these suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced shortages in allocations of components, resulting in delays in filling orders. We may encounter shortages and delays in obtaining components in the future, which could impede our ability to meet customer orders. Our proprietary ASICs, which provide key functionality in our products, are fabricated in foundries operated by, or subcontracted by, Texas Instruments Inc., Fujitsu Ltd., and Broadcom Corp. An alternative supply for these ASICs would require an extensive development period. We depend on anticipated product orders to determine our material requirements. Lead-times for limited-sourced materials and components can be as long as six months, vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead-times with the risk of inventory obsolescence due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If orders do not match forecasts, or if we do not manage inventory effectively, we may have either excess or insufficient inventory of materials and components, which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Our reliance on third-party manufacturing vendors to manufacture our products may cause a delay in our ability to fill orders. Our subassemblies for certain products are manufactured by contract manufacturers. We then perform final assembly and testing of these products. In addition, some Foundry-branded products are manufactured by third party OEMs. Our agreements with some of these companies allow them to procure long lead-time component inventory on our behalf based on a rolling production forecast provided by us. We are contractually obligated to purchase long lead-time component inventory procured by certain suppliers and third-party manufacturers in accordance with our forecasts, although we can generally give notice of order cancellation at least 90 days prior to the delivery date. If actual demand for our products is below our projections, we may have excess inventory as a result of our purchase commitments. We do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers and third-party manufacturers. We have experienced delays in product shipments from our contract manufacturers and OEMs, which in turn delayed product shipments to our customers. In addition, certain of our products require a long manufacturing lead-time, which may result in delayed shipments. We may in the future experience similar delays or other problems, 17 Table of Contents such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product, or acquisition by a competitor or business failure of any of our OEMs, any of which could harm our business and operating results. We intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating our efforts with our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We attempt to increase our material purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions to meet anticipated demand. The inability of our contract manufacturers or OEMs to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, the loss of any of our third-party manufacturers, or the inability to obtain components and raw materials, could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders. Additionally, from time to time, we transition, via our contract manufacturers, to different manufacturing locations, including lower-cost foreign countries. Such transitions are inherently risky and could cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders on a timely basis or a deterioration in product quality. Our gross margins and average selling prices of our products have decreased in the past and may continue to decrease as a result of competitive pressures and other factors. Our industry has experienced erosion of average product selling prices due to a number of factors, particularly competitive and macroeconomic pressures and rapid technological change. The average selling prices of our products have decreased in the past and may continue to decrease in response to competitive pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by our competitors or other factors. Both we and our competitors occasionally lower sales prices in order to gain market share or create more demand. Furthermore, as a result of cautious capital spending in the technology sector, coupled with more broad macro-economic factors, both we and our competitors may pursue more aggressive pricing strategies in an effort to maintain sales levels. Such intense pricing competition could cause our gross margins to decline and may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our gross margins may be adversely affected if we are unable to reduce manufacturing costs and effectively manage our inventory levels. Although management continues to closely monitor inventory levels, declines in demand for our products could result in additional provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. Additionally, our gross margins may be negatively affected by fluctuations in manufacturing volumes, component costs, the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold. For example, we generally realize higher gross margins on direct sales to an end user than on sales through resellers or to our OEMs. As a result, any significant shift in revenue through resellers or to our OEMs could harm our gross margins. If product or related warranty costs associated with our products are greater than we have experienced, our gross margins may also be adversely affected. Weak economic and market conditions or geopolitical turmoil may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and expenses. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate due to the effects of general economic conditions in the United States and globally, and, in particular, market conditions in the communications and networking industries. Additionally, current political turmoil in many parts of the world, including terrorist and military actions, may weaken the global economy. If economic conditions in the United States and globally do not improve, or if they worsen, we may experience material negative effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve or even maintain our financial results or that economic and market conditions will continue to improve and will not deteriorate. We need additional qualified personnel to maintain and expand our business. If we are unable to promptly attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly-skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel. Competition for these personnel can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we may experience some difficulty hiring employees in the timeframe we desire, particularly engineering and sales personnel. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. In order to improve productivity, we have historically used stock options to motivate and retain our employees. The additional compensation expense that must now be recognized in connection with grants 18 Table of Contents of stock options may limit the attractiveness of using stock options as a primary incentive and retention tool. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions. Our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, we believe that our future success may depend on Bobby R. Johnson, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not have employment contracts or key person life insurance for any of our personnel. Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control. As a result, our business may be harmed if we are unable to successfully address these risks. Our success will depend, in part, on increasing international sales and expanding our international operations. Our international sales primarily depend on our resellers, including Pan Dacom GmbH in Europe, Mitsui & Co. Ltd. in Japan, Stark Technology in China, and Samsung Corporation in Korea. The failure of our international resellers to sell our products could limit our ability to sustain and grow our revenue. In particular, our revenue from Japan depends primarily on Mitsui’s ability to sell our products and on the strength of the Japanese economy. There are a number of additional risks arising from our international business, including: • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potential recessions in economies outside the United States; • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • export restrictions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • higher costs of doing business in foreign countries; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • potential adverse tax consequences; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • infringement claims on foreign patents, copyrights, or trademark rights. • natural disasters and widespread medical epidemics; • military conflict and terrorist activities; and • political instability. The factors described above could also disrupt our product and component manufacturers and key suppliers located outside of the United States. One or more of such factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Generally, our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive on a price basis in international markets. We invoice some of our international customers in local currencies, which could subject us to fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies. See also Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for a review of certain risks associated with foreign exchange rates. 19 Table of Contents Due to the lengthy sales cycles of some of our products, the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict and may cause us to fail to meet our revenue expectations. Some of our products have a relatively high sales price, and their purchase often represents a significant and strategic decision by a customer. The decision by customers to purchase our products is often based on their internal budgets and procedures involving rigorous evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance of new technologies. As a result, our sales cycle in these situations can be as long as 12 months and may vary substantially from customer to customer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they may place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. Consequently, if sales forecasted from certain customers for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, we may not meet our revenue expectations. As a result of our delayed filing of our periodic SEC reports, our inability to maintain our Form S-3 eligibility may adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions. As a result of our delayed filing of our quarterly and annual reports with the SEC, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by other security holders until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one year. In the meantime, if we use Form S-1 to raise capital, our transaction costs could increase. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of our voluntary review of our historical stock option granting practices, our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of September 30, 2006. The restatement of financial statements in prior filings with the SEC is a strong indicator of the existence of a “material weakness” in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting. However, we have concluded that the control deficiencies that resulted in the restatement of the previously issued consolidated financial statements did not constitute a material weakness as of December 31, 2006, because management determined that as of December 31, 2006 there were effective controls designed and in place to prevent or detect a material misstatement and therefore the likelihood of stock-based compensation, deferred compensation and deferred tax assets being materially misstated is not more than remote. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the 20 Table of Contents benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The timing of the adoption of industry standards may negatively affect widespread market acceptance of our products. Our success depends in part on both the adoption of industry standards for new technologies in our market and our products’ compliance with industry standards. Many technological developments occur prior to the adoption of the related industry standard. The absence or delay of an industry standard related to a specific technology may prevent market acceptance of products using the technology. We intend to develop products using new technological advancements and may develop these products prior to the adoption of industry standards related to these technologies. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and losses due to lack of customer demand, unusable purchased components for these products and the diversion of our engineers from future product development efforts. Further, if the adoption of industry standards moves too quickly, we may develop products that do not comply with a later-adopted industry standard, which could hurt our ability to sell these products. If the industry evolves to new standards, we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products in a timely fashion that meet these new standards. Even after industry standards are adopted, the future success of our products depends on widespread market acceptance of their underlying technologies. Attempts by third parties to impose licensing fees on industry standards could undermine the adoption of such standards and decrease industry opportunities. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. Our products need to interface with existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected, orders for our products could be cancelled or our products could be returned. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. 21 Table of Contents If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and lost sales and be subject to product liability claims. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or as new enhancements and versions are released. Despite our testing procedures, these defects and errors may be found after commencement of commercial shipments. Any defects or errors in our products discovered in the future or failures of our customers’ networks, whether caused by our products or another vendors’ products, could result in: • negative customer reactions; • product liability claims; • negative publicity regarding us and our products; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; • product returns; • lost sales; and • unexpected expenses to remedy defects or errors. We may incur liabilities that are not subject to maximum loss clauses. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into purchase orders, sales contracts, and other similar contractual arrangements relating to the marketing, sale, manufacture, distribution, or use of our products and services. We may incur liabilities relating to our failure to address certain liabilities or inability to perform certain covenants or obligations under such agreements, or which result from claims and losses arising from certain external events as outlined within the particular contract. Such agreements may not contain, or be subject to, maximum loss clauses, and liabilities arising from them may result in significant adverse changes to our financial position or results of operations. Our products may not continue to comply with the regulations governing their sale, which may harm our business. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories. Internationally, products that we develop may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries, as well as those of certain international bodies. Recent environmental legislation within the European Union (“EU”) may increase our cost of doing business internationally as we comply with and implement these new requirements. The EU has issued a Directive on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (RoHS) and enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directive to mandate the funding, collection, treatment, recycling, and recovery of WEEE by producers of electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. Under the RoHS Directive, specified electronic products which we placed on the market in the EU on or after July 1, 2006 were required to meet restrictions on lead and certain other chemical substances. Implementation of the WEEE Directive in certain of the EU-member countries was delayed until a later date. We are currently implementing measures to comply with the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive as individual countries issue their implementation guidance. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries in which we currently sell, there can be no assurance that our existing and future product offerings will continue to comply with evolving standards and regulations. If we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification, we may not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenue or maintaining profitability. Additionally, future changes in tariffs, or their application, by regulatory agencies could affect the sales of some of our products. 22 Table of Contents We may engage in acquisitions that could result in the dilution of our stockholders, disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial expenses and harm our business if we cannot successfully integrate the acquired business, products, technologies or personnel. Although we focus on internal product development and growth, we may learn of acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business or enhance our technological capabilities. Any acquisition by us could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to amortizable intangible assets, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. Furthermore, acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of products, operations, personnel and technologies of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • disruptions to our operations, including potential difficulties in completing ongoing projects in a timely manner; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Although we do not currently have any agreements or plans with respect to any material acquisitions, we may make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies in the future. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that might be acquired, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our stock price has been volatile historically, which may make it more difficult to sell shares when needed at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, speculation in the press or investment community, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Foundry without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Foundry, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. 23 Table of Contents Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. Our principal operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. In addition, certain of our local and foreign offices, OEMs, and contract manufacturers are located in areas susceptible to earthquakes and acts of terrorism, which could cause a material disruption in our operations. For example, we procure critical components from countries such as Japan and Taiwan, which periodically experience earthquakes and typhoons. The prospect of such unscheduled interruptions may continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict either their occurrence, duration or cessation. We do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We may not carry sufficient insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On September 5, 2006, we received a letter from the SEC Division of Corporation Finance requesting us to provide it with our SFAS 5 analysis relating to our stock option practices. We expect to provide the SEC with the requested information shortly after filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 24 Table of Contents 