ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s substantial debt may adversely affect its business, financial condition and financial results. The Company has borrowed substantially in the past and will continue to borrow in the future. At December 31, 2007, Lamar Advertising Company had $287.5 million of convertible notes outstanding, and Lamar Media had approximately $2.7 billion of total debt outstanding, consisting of approximately $1.2 billion in bank debt, $1.2 billion in various series of senior subordinated notes and a mirror note issued to the Company in the amount of $287.5 million, which is equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Company’s outstanding convertible notes. Despite the level of debt presently outstanding, the terms of the indentures governing Lamar Media’s notes and the terms of the bank credit facility allow Lamar Media to incur substantially more debt, including approximately $385.0 million available for borrowing as of December 31, 2007 under the revolving bank credit facility. The Company’s substantial debt and its use of cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on its debt may, among other things: § limit the cash flow available to fund the Company’s working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements; § limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements; § inhibit the Company’s ability to fund or finance an appropriate level of acquisition activity, which has traditionally been a significant component of the Company’s year-to-year revenue growth; § place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to those of its competitors that have less debt; § make it more difficult for the Company to comply with the financial covenants in its bank credit facility, which could result in a default and an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the facility; § force the Company to seek and obtain alternate or additional sources of funding, which may be unavailable, or may be on less favorable terms, or may require the Company to obtain the consent of lenders under its bank credit facility or the holders of its other debt; § limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; § affect the Company’s ability to complete its previously announced stock repurchase program; and § increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. 10 Table of Contents Any of these problems could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. Restrictions in the Company’s and Lamar Media’s debt agreements reduce operating flexibility and contain covenants and restrictions that create the potential for defaults, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. The terms of the indenture relating to the Company’s outstanding notes, Lamar Media’s bank credit facility and the indentures relating to Lamar Media’s outstanding notes restrict the ability of the Company and Lamar Media to, among other things: § incur or repay debt; § dispose of assets; § create liens; § make investments; § enter into affiliate transactions; and § pay dividends and make inter-company distributions. The terms of Lamar Media’s bank credit facility also restrict it from exceeding specified total debt and senior debt ratios and require it to maintain specified interest coverage and fixed charges coverage ratios. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of the specific financial ratio requirements under the bank credit facility. These restrictions reduce the Company’s operating flexibility and could prevent the Company from exploiting investment, acquisition, marketing, stock repurchase or other time-sensitive business opportunities. Moreover, the Company’s ability to comply with the financial covenants in the bank credit facility (and similar covenants in future agreements) depends on its operating performance, which in turn depends significantly on prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Therefore, despite its best efforts and execution of its strategic plan, the Company may be unable to comply with these financial covenants in the future. If Lamar Media fails to comply with its financial covenants, the lenders under the bank credit facility could accelerate all of the debt outstanding, which would create serious financial problems and could lead to a default under the indentures governing the Company’s and Lamar Media’s outstanding notes. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and other external events beyond the Company’s control. The Company sells advertising space on outdoor structures to generate revenues. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, and the occurrence of any of the following external events could depress the Company’s revenues: § a decline in general economic conditions, which could reduce national advertising spending disproportionately; § a decline in economic conditions in specific geographical markets, which could reduce local advertising spending in those particular markets disproportionately; § a widespread reallocation of advertising expenditures to other available media by significant users of the Company’s displays; § a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general or outdoor advertising in particular; and § increased regulation of the subject matter, location or operation of outdoor advertising displays and taxation on outdoor advertising. The Company’s continued growth through acquisitions may become more difficult, which could adversely affect the Company’s future financial performance. Over the last 10 years, the outdoor advertising industry has experienced a wave of consolidation, in part due to the regulatory restrictions on building new outdoor advertising structures. The Company has been a major participant in this trend, using acquisitions of outdoor advertising businesses and assets as a means of increasing its advertising display inventory in existing and new markets. 11 Table of Contents The Company currently anticipates acquisition activity in 2008 to be approximately $250 million. Acquisitions will remain an important component of the Company’s future revenue growth. The future success of the Company’s acquisition strategy could be adversely affected by many factors, including the following: § the pool of suitable acquisition candidates is dwindling, and the Company may have a more difficult time negotiating acquisitions on favorable terms; § the Company may face increased competition for acquisition candidates from other outdoor advertising companies, some of which have greater financial resources than the Company, which may result in higher prices for those businesses and assets; § the Company may not have access to the capital needed to finance potential acquisitions and may be unable to obtain any required consents from its current lenders to obtain alternate financing; § the Company may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and assets effectively with its existing operations and systems as a result of unforeseen difficulties that could divert significant time, attention and effort from management that could otherwise be directed at developing existing business; § the Company may be unable to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; § the Company may not realize the benefits and cost savings anticipated in its acquisitions; and § as the industry consolidates further, larger mergers and acquisitions may face substantial scrutiny under antitrust laws. These obstacles to the Company’s opportunistic acquisition strategy may have an adverse effect on its future financial results. The Company faces competition from larger and more diversified outdoor advertisers and other forms of advertising that could hurt its performance. While the Company enjoys a significant market share in many of its small and medium-sized markets, the Company faces competition from other outdoor advertisers and other media in all of its markets. Although the Company is one of the largest companies focusing exclusively on outdoor advertising in a relatively fragmented industry, it competes against larger companies with diversified operations, such as television, radio and other broadcast media. These diversified competitors have the advantage of cross-selling complementary advertising products to advertisers. The Company also competes against an increasing variety of out-of-home advertising media, such as advertising displays in shopping centers, malls, airports, stadiums, movie theaters and supermarkets, and on taxis, trains and buses. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from other forms of media, including radio, newspapers, direct mail advertising, telephone directories and the Internet. The industry competes for advertising revenue along the following dimensions: exposure (the number of “impressions” an advertisement makes), advertising rates (generally measured in cost-per-thousand impressions), ability to target specific demographic groups or geographies, effectiveness, quality of related services (such as advertising copy design and layout) and customer service. The Company may be unable to compete successfully along these dimensions in the future, and the competitive pressures that the Company faces could adversely affect its profitability or financial performance. The Company currently has two primary suppliers of the LED digital displays for its digital billboards. If they cannot meet the Company’s requirements for these displays in the future, it could adversely affect the Company’s digital deployment. The Company’s inventory of digital billboards increased to 660 units in operation at December 31, 2007 and it intends to expand its digital deployment in the future based on customer and market demand. The Company currently has two primary suppliers of the LED digital displays used in its digital billboards (Young Electric Sign Company (YESCO) and Daktronics, Inc.). Any inability of these suppliers to produce additional displays, including due to increased demand from us or others, could adversely affect its ability to deploy additional digital units and service existing units. Although to date these suppliers have been able to increase capacity in order to meet the Company’s requirements, there is no guarantee, however, that they will be able to continue to meet the Company’s requirements in the future and a shortage of these displays could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fulfill customers’ orders and its results of operations. Federal, state and local regulation impact the Company’s operations, financial condition and financial results. Outdoor advertising is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Regulations generally restrict the size, spacing, lighting and other aspects of advertising structures and pose a significant barrier to entry and expansion in many markets. 12 Table of Contents Federal law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (the “HBA”), regulates outdoor advertising on Federal — Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems roads . The HBA requires states to “effectively control” outdoor advertising along these roads, and mandates a state compliance program and state standards regarding size, spacing and lighting. The HBA requires any state or political subdivision that compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a Federal — Aid Primary or Interstate highway to pay just compensation to the billboard owner. All states have passed billboard control statutes and regulations at least as restrictive as the federal requirements, including laws requiring the removal of illegal signs at the owner’s expense (and without compensation from the state). Although we believe that the number of our billboards that may be subject to removal as illegal is immaterial, and no state in which we operate has banned billboards entirely, from time to time governments have required us to remove signs and billboards legally erected in accordance with federal, state and local permit requirements and laws. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. We contest laws and regulations that we believe unlawfully restrict our constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of our outdoor advertising business. Using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, state governments have purchased and removed billboards for beautification, and may do so again in the future. Under the power of eminent domain, state or municipal governments have laid claim to property and forced the removal of billboards. Under a concept called amortization by which a governmental body asserts that a billboard operator has earned compensation by continued operation over time, local governments have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (i.e., billboards that conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations). Although the legality of amortization is questionable, it has been upheld in some instances. Often, municipal and county governments also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws, with some local governments prohibiting construction of new billboards or allowing new construction only to replace existing structures. Although we have generally been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for those of our billboards purchased or removed as a result of governmental action, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. We have also introduced and intend to expand the deployment of digital billboards that display static digital advertising copy from various advertisers that changes every 6 to 8 seconds. We have encountered some existing regulations that restrict or prohibit these types of digital displays but it has not yet materially impacted our digital deployment. Since digital billboards have only recently been developed and introduced into the market on a large scale, however, existing regulations that currently do not apply to them by their terms could be revised to impose greater restrictions. These regulations may impose greater restrictions on digital billboards due to alleged concerns over aesthetics or driver safety. The Company’s logo sign contracts are subject to state award and renewal. In 2007, the Company generated approximately 4% of its revenues from state-awarded logo sign contracts. In bidding for these contracts, the Company competes against three other national logo sign providers, as well as numerous smaller, local logo sign providers. A logo sign provider incurs significant start-up costs upon being awarded a new contract. These contracts generally have a term of five to ten years, with additional renewal periods. Some states reserve the right to terminate a contract early, and most contracts require the state to pay compensation to the logo sign provider for early termination. At the end of the contract term, the logo sign provider transfers ownership of the logo sign structures to the state. Depending on the contract, the logo provider may or may not be entitled to compensation for the structures at the end of the contract term. Of the Company’s 20 logo sign contracts in place at December 31, 2007, four are subject to renewal in 2008. The Company may be unable to renew its expiring contracts. The Company may also lose the bidding on new contracts. The Company is controlled by significant stockholders who have the power to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and whose interest in the Company may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2007, members of the Reilly family, including Kevin P. Reilly, Jr., the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sean Reilly, the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and President of its Outdoor Division, owned in the aggregate approximately 17% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, assuming the conversion of all Class B common stock to Class A common stock. As of that date, their combined holdings represented 67% of the voting power of Lamar Advertising’s outstanding capital stock, which would give the Reilly family the power to: • elect the Company’s entire board of directors; • control the Company’s management and policies; and • determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter requiring stockholder approval, including charter amendments, mergers, consolidations and asset sales. 13 Table of Contents The Reilly family may have interests that are different than yours. For example, the Reilly family may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale of the Company that would provide the common stockholders a premium for their shares. If the Company’s contingency plans relating to hurricanes fail, the resulting losses could hurt the Company’s business. The Company has determined that it is not economical to insure against losses resulting from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Although the Company has developed contingency plans designed to mitigate the threat posed by hurricanes to advertising structures (e.g., removing advertising faces at the onset of a storm, when possible, which better permits the structures to withstand high winds during the storm), these plans could fail and significant losses could result. The two hurricanes that hit the gulf coast in 2005 resulted in revenue losses of approximately $2.4 million in 2005 and required capital expenditures of approximately $20 million in 2005. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 