ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s substantial debt may adversely affect its business, financial condition and financial results. The Company has borrowed substantially in the past and will continue to borrow in the future. At December 31, 2005, Lamar Advertising Company had approximately $287.5 million of convertible notes outstanding, and Lamar Media had approximately $1.6 billion of total debt outstanding, consisting of approximately $495.0 million in bank debt, $790.0 million in various series of senior subordinated notes, $3.9 million in other short-term and long-term debt and a mirror note issued to the Company in an aggregate amount equal to the principal amount of the Company’s outstanding convertible notes. Despite the level of debt presently outstanding, the terms of the indentures governing the notes and the terms of the bank credit facility allow Lamar Media to incur substantially more debt, including approximately $294.6 million available for borrowing as of December 31, 2005 under the revolving bank credit facility. The Company’s substantial debt and its use of cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on its debt may, among other things: • limit the cash flow available to fund the Company’s working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements; • inhibit the Company’s ability to fund or finance an appropriate level of acquisition activity, which has traditionally been a significant component of the Company’s year-to-year revenue growth; • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage relative to those of its competitors that have less debt; • make it more difficult for the Company to comply with the financial covenants in its bank credit facility, which could result in a default and an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under the facility; • force the Company to seek and obtain alternate or additional sources of funding, which may be unavailable, or may be on less favorable terms, or may require the Company to obtain the consent of lenders under its bank credit facility or the holders of its other debt; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; and • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Any of these problems could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. Restrictions in the Company’s and Lamar Media’s debt agreements reduce operating flexibility and contain covenants and restrictions that create the potential for defaults, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. The terms of the indenture relating to the Company’s outstanding notes, Lamar Media’s bank credit facility and the indentures relating to Lamar Media’s outstanding notes restrict the ability of the Company and Lamar Media to, among other things: • incur or repay debt; • dispose of assets; • create liens; • make investments; • enter into affiliate transactions; and • pay dividends and make inter-company distributions. The terms of Lamar Media’s bank credit facility also restrict it from exceeding specified total debt and senior debt ratios and require it to maintain specified interest coverage and fixed charges coverage ratios. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a description of the specific financial ratio requirements under the bank credit facility. These restrictions reduce the Company’s operating flexibility and could prevent the Company from exploiting investment, acquisition, marketing, stock repurchase or other time-sensitive business opportunities. Moreover, the Company’s ability to comply with the financial covenants in the bank credit facility (and similar covenants in future agreements) depends on its operating performance, which in turn depends heavily on prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. Therefore, despite its best efforts and execution of its strategic plan, the Company may be unable to comply with these financial covenants in the future. If Lamar Media fails to comply with its financial covenants, the lenders under the bank credit facility could accelerate all of the debt outstanding, which would create serious financial problems and could lead to a default under the indentures governing the Company’s and Lamar Media’s outstanding notes. Any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and financial results. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and other external events beyond the Company’s control. The Company sells advertising space on outdoor structures to generate revenues. Advertising spending is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, and the occurrence of any of the following external events could depress the Company’s revenues: • a decline in general economic conditions, which could reduce national advertising spending disproportionately; • a decline in economic conditions in specific geographical markets, which could reduce local advertising spending in those particular markets disproportionately; • a widespread reallocation of advertising expenditures to other available media by significant users of the Company’s displays; • a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general or outdoor advertising in particular; and • increased regulation of the subject matter, location or operation of outdoor advertising displays and taxation on outdoor advertising. The Company’s continued growth through acquisitions may become more difficult, which could adversely affect the Company’s future financial performance. Over the last 10 years, the outdoor advertising industry has experienced a wave of consolidation, in part due to the regulatory restrictions on building new outdoor advertising structures. The Company has been a major participant in this trend, using acquisitions of outdoor advertising businesses and assets as a means of increasing its advertising display inventory in existing and new markets. Although the Company currently anticipates a slight reduction in acquisition activity from about $190.0 million in 2005 to about $150.0 million in 2006, acquisitions will remain an important component of the Company’s future revenue growth. The future success of the Company’s acquisition strategy could be adversely affected by many factors, including the following: • the pool of suitable acquisition candidates is dwindling, and the Company may have a more difficult time negotiating acquisitions on favorable terms; • the Company may face increased competition for acquisition candidates from other outdoor advertising companies, some of which have greater financial resources than the Company, which may result in higher prices for those businesses and assets; • the Company may not have access to the capital needed to finance potential acquisitions and may be unable to obtain any required consents from its current lenders to obtain alternate financing; • the Company may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and assets effectively with its existing operations and systems as a result of unforeseen difficulties that could divert significant time, attention and effort from management that could otherwise be directed at developing existing business; • the Company may be unable to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; • the Company may not realize the benefits and cost savings anticipated in its acquisitions; and • as the industry consolidates further, larger mergers and acquisitions may face substantial scrutiny under antitrust laws. These obstacles to the Company’s opportunistic acquisition strategy may have an adverse effect on its future financial results. The Company faces competition from larger and more diversified outdoor advertisers and other forms of advertising that could hurt its performance. While the Company enjoys a significant market share in many of its small and medium-sized markets, the Company faces competition from other outdoor advertisers and other media in all of its markets. Although the Company is one of the largest companies focusing exclusively on outdoor advertising in a relatively fragmented industry, it competes against larger companies with diversified operations, such as television, radio and other broadcast media. These diversified competitors have the advantage of cross-selling complementary advertising products to advertisers. The Company also competes against an increasing variety of out-of-home advertising media, such as advertising displays in shopping centers, malls, airports, stadiums, movie theaters and supermarkets, and on taxis, trains and buses. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from other forms of media, including radio, newspapers, direct mail advertising, telephone directories and the Internet. The industry competes for advertising revenue along the following dimensions: exposure (the number of “impressions” an advertisement makes), advertising rates (generally measured in cost-per-thousand impressions), ability to target specific demographic groups or geographies, effectiveness, quality of related services (such as advertising copy design and layout) and customer service. The Company may be unable to compete successfully along these dimensions in the future, and the competitive pressures that the Company faces could adversely affect its profitability or financial performance. 10 Table of Contents Federal, state and local regulation impact the Company’s operations, financial condition and financial results. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by federal, state and local government regulation of the outdoor advertising business. For instance, as a condition to receiving federal highway assistance, states impose location restrictions, among other restrictions, on billboards placed along primary and interstate highways. Federal laws impose size, spacing, lighting and other limitations on billboards, and some states have adopted even more restrictive requirements. Other states prohibit both construction of new billboards and reconstruction of significantly damaged billboards. Four states (Vermont, Maine, Alaska and Hawaii) have enacted bans on billboard advertising altogether. Local governments also impose size, spacing, lighting and other limitations on outdoor advertising structures through their administration of zoning regulations. In some cases, local governments require the removal of existing billboards by a future date without compensation. Some local governments also tax outdoor advertising revenues earned within their jurisdiction. In the future, additional regulations may be imposed on outdoor advertising. These regulations could take the form of prohibitions on the construction of new billboards on all highways within any particular state, declarations by local governments that existing billboards are “non conforming uses” that are subject to removal or restrictions on the ability of billboard companies to control vegetation that reduces the visibility of its signs. Despite the potential financial harm to the Company that these and other types of regulations could pose, the Company may not be compensated for its losses. As a result, the Company’s financial condition and financial results may be adversely affected. The Company’s logo sign contracts are subject to state award and renewal. In 2005, the Company generated approximately 5% of its revenues from state-awarded logo sign contracts. In bidding for these contracts, the Company competes against three other national logo sign providers, as well as numerous smaller, local logo sign providers. A logo sign provider incurs significant start-up costs upon being awarded a new contract. These contracts generally have a term of five to ten years, with additional renewal periods. Some states reserve the right to terminate a contract early, and most contracts require the state to pay compensation to the logo sign provider for early termination. At the end of the contract term, the logo sign provider transfers ownership of the logo sign structures to the state. Depending on the contract, the logo provider may or may not be entitled to compensation for the structures at the end of the contract term. Of the Company’s 19 logo sign contracts in place at December 31, 2005, three are scheduled to terminate in December 2006. The Company may be unable to renew its expiring contracts. The Company may also lose the bidding on new contracts. The Company is controlled by significant stockholders who have the power to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval and whose interest in the Company may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2005, members of the Reilly family, including Kevin P. Reilly, Jr., the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sean Reilly, the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and President of its Outdoor Division, owned in the aggregate approximately 16% of the Company’s common stock, assuming the conversion of all Class B common stock to Class A common stock. As of that date, their combined holdings represented 64% of the voting power of Lamar Advertising’s capital stock, which would give the Reilly family the power to: • elect the Company’s entire board of directors; • control the Company’s management and policies; and • determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter requiring stockholder approval, including charter amendments, mergers, consolidations and asset sales. The Reilly family may have interests that are different than yours. As an example, the Reilly family may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale of the Company that would provide the common stockholders a premium for their shares. If the Company’s contingency plans relating to hurricanes fail, the resulting losses could hurt the Company’s business. The Company has determined that it is uneconomical to insure against losses resulting from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Although the Company has developed contingency plans designed to mitigate the threat posed by hurricanes to advertising structures (i.e., removing advertising faces at the onset of a storm, when possible, which better permits the structures to withstand high winds during the storm), these plans could fail and significant losses could result. The four hurricanes that hit Florida in August and September of 2004 and the two hurricanes that hit the gulf coast in 2005 resulted in revenue losses of approximately $1.5 million in 2004 and approximately $2.4 million in 2005 and required capital expenditures of approximately $8 million in 2004 and approximately $20 million in 2005. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 