Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred losses and anticipate continued losses and negative cash flow. We have generated net losses since inception and expect to continue to incur net losses and generate negative cash flow until we can produce sufficient revenues to cover our costs through the production and sale of our 24/7 Power Packs and other anticipated fuel cell products. We incurred net losses of approximately $18,550,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and approximately $33,047,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Our plan is to reach the point of selling sufficient 24/7 Power Packs coming off our automated production line in the second half of 2007 to achieve a rate of profitability, but we can give no assurance of that result. Our inability to become profitable may force us to curtail or temporarily discontinue our research and development programs and our day-to-day operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained on an ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $176,778,000. We may continue to generate net losses for the foreseeable future and cannot predict when we will achieve profitability, if ever. A commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Although we have developed our business plans based on there being a large consumer demand for our 24/7 Power Pack and future generations of our fuel cell products, as well as military -12- demand, a commercially acceptable market may never develop for our fuel cell products or any of our other technologies, or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Our fuel cell products represent a new market product, and we do not know with certainty to what extent, if any, end-users will want to purchase and use them. The development of a commercially acceptable market for our fuel cell products may be affected by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: · the level to which the capabilities of our 24/7 Power Pack, and any other of our fuel cell products, have advanced in performance, shelf-life, stand-by time, time of use, size, weight, cost and other factors that determine consumer acceptance; · the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products; · improvements to existing technologies, including existing rechargeable battery technology or the chips used in the electronic devices that allow the batteries to operate more efficiently or allow the devices to run for longer periods of time; · the future cost of sodium borohydrides, alkalines, glycerol, ethanol, or any other hydrogen-based fuels, the catalysts used in our fuel cell products or other chemicals used for powering our fuel cell products and, plastics and nickel used in the product; · regulations that affect or limit the use of the components in our fuel cells or our fuel cells in general or regulations regarding recycling; · consumer perceptions of the safety of our products; and · consumer reluctance to try a new product. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones and time tables. We establish milestones and time tables, based upon our expectations regarding our technologies, plans and programs at that time, which we use to assess our progress toward developing and delivering into the market place commercially acceptable fuel cell products. These milestones relate to technology and design improvements as well as to dates for achieving production and marketing goals. If our products exhibit technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including levels and stability of power output for our 24/7 Power Pack, useful life and reliability or if our production cannot be achieved in time or the costs exceed our expectations, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and third parties who are collaborating with us to manufacture or market our fuel cell products may decline to continue that collaboration. Furthermore, potential purchasers of our initial commercial products may lose interest or may opt to purchase alternative technologies. We can give no assurance that our commercialization schedule will continue to be met as we further develop our fuel cell products, or any of our other technologies or products. -13- We may be unsuccessful in developing additional fuel cell products or future generations of our 24/7 Power Pack or any of our other technologies. In tandem with the commercialization of our first product - our 24/7 Power Pack - we are developing other fuel cell products as well as future generations of our 24/7 Power Pack, including refuelable Power Pack products and specialized products for military use. Developing any technology into a marketable product that a consumer will desire to purchase is a risky, time consuming and expensive process. We may encounter setbacks, discrepancies requiring time consuming and costly redesigns and changes. There also is the possibility of outright failure. Furthermore, we contemplate moving forward with the development of certain of our fuel cell technologies only if we are able to find strategic investors or other joint venture partners. Additionally, we continue to seek to improve our 24/7 Power Pack and our fuel cell technologies in general, particularly in the areas of energy capacity, power density, operating time, shelf life and working life, as well as the temperature conditions under which they can operate. We also seek to reduce the component costs and costs of the final product, and continue to seek to improve its power management system and each element of the power management system. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in improving our technologies or reducing costs. Generally, we can give no assurance as to when or whether we will successfully develop any of our other planned fuel cell products or any of our other technologies into commercially viable products. We have no experience manufacturing our products on a large scale commercial basis. To date, we have manufactured a limited number of our fuel cell products on our semi-automated production line at our facility in Israel. We intend for our fully automated production line, operated by a third-party contract manufacturer, to be qualified for high-volume production in the second quarter of 2007, and during the second half of 2007, we plan to ramp up production of the units, from hundreds of thousands of units per month and increasing to 1.5 million units per month. We have no experience in the final stages of manufacturing our fuel cell products on a high-volume commercial basis. We can offer no assurance that either we, our contract manufacturer or any other party we engage to build a fully automated line production for volume-production of our products will develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel cell products. Even if we or our contract manufacturer are successful in developing such manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we or they will be timely in meeting our product commercialization schedule or the product, production and delivery requirements of potential customers. A failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities or timely meet such requirements could cause us to lose customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Furthermore, our contemplated program for the volume production of our fuel cell products would require us to manufacture the electrodes, catalysts and fuel internally and deliver them to our proposed contract manufacturer to be part of the final product. Although we have established electrode and fuel production operations at our facility in Israel, we have not demonstrated that we are capable of producing any of those or any other components at a large enough scale to adequately supply those components in sufficient volume, or if those components will meet or surpass the manufacturing standards necessary for a successful final product. -14- Customers will be unlikely to buy our fuel cell products or our other products unless we can demonstrate that they can be produced for sale to customers and users at attractive prices. The price of our fuel cell products and our other technologies and products is dependent largely on material and other manufacturing costs. We are unable to offer any assurance that either we or a contract manufacturer will be able to reduce costs to a level which will allow production of a competitive product that the consumer finds attractive or that any product produced using lower cost materials and manufacturing processes will not suffer from a reduction in performance, reliability and longevity. Furthermore, although we have estimated a pricing structure for our fuel cell products, including manufacturing costs and proposed sales price, we can give no assurance that these estimates will be correct in light of any manufacturing process we adopt or distribution channels we use. We have developed a pricing structure for the CellScan, another product we are seeking to commercialize, and its related Cell Carriers and tests, that we believe would be commercially acceptable. However, we can give no assurance that potential CellScan customers would respond affirmatively to our pricing structure. We will be unable to market or sell our fuel cell products or products derived from any of our other technologies if we are unsuccessful in entering into sales agreements, arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties. As we do not have nor do we intend to develop our own broad based marketing or wide scale manufacturing infrastructure, our ability to market, manufacture and sell our fuel cell technologies or any of our other technologies is wholly dependent on our entry into manufacturing, sales or distributing arrangements, sales agreements, strategic alliances, joint ventures or licensing agreements with third parties possessing such capabilities. Although to date we have been successful in entering into certain of such arrangements, we can give no assurance that in the future we will be successful in entering into additional arrangements, alliances, joint ventures or agreements or that the terms of which will be entirely beneficial to us. Failure to enter into such arrangements with regard to our products could materially and adversely affect our commercialization plans and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on relationships with strategic partners, and many of the terms of these relationships are not certain. We have entered into agreements with strategic partners for the distribution of our 24/7 Power Pack. The terms and conditions of many of these agreements allow for immediate termination, in part or in whole, by the partners in their discretion, or only provide for a commitment on the part of the partners upon the happening of certain milestone events. We can give no assurance that we will meet any of these milestones. Our inability to meet any of the aforementioned milestones, or the termination of any of these agreements by the strategic partner, could adversely affect our ability to distribute our 24/7 Power Pack to the marketplace and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into cooperative agreements with certain mobile operators for market testing and introduction of our 24/7 Power Pack. We are now in the process of providing some of these mobile operators, as well as others, with 24/7 Power Packs for evaluation and testing. We believe these relationships with mobile operators are important to the continued development and commercialization of our 24/7 Power Packs and other future fuel cell products. Generally, these agreements and relationships are subject to the risk of termination at the discretion of the mobile -15- operator. Further, the mobile operators are under no obligation to purchase any of our products. Termination of these agreements and relationships, or our failure to capitalize on them by selling our products to the mobile operators, could materially and adversely affect our commercialization plans and, therefore, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, such mobile operators are not obligated to work exclusively with us in the area of fuel cell or battery technologies and may therefore enter into similar cooperation agreements, and work with and purchase products from our competitors. Such competition would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our financial results. We are and will continue to be dependent on third party suppliers and subcontractors for the supply of key materials and components for our products. If and when either we or our contract manufacturers or manufacturing, strategic alliance or joint venture partners commence production of our fuel cells or fuel cell products, of which there can be no assurance, we will rely upon third party suppliers and subcontractors to provide requisite materials and components, including the power management system of our 24/7 Power Pack product. A supplier’s or subcontractor’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our fuel cell products on a timely basis or meet our cost targets or commercialization schedule. We or our contract manufacturers, manufacturing, strategic alliance or joint venture partners may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative suppliers, and that could adversely affect our ability to produce viable fuel cells or significantly raise the cost of producing fuel cells or fuel cell products. We expect that platinum will not be a component in our commercial fuel cell products, however, there can be no assurance that we may not require some platinum to achieve the results we desire or in some future version of our fuel cell for larger applications. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and, to the extent it remains a component of the electrode, we will be dependent upon a sufficient supply of this commodity at a cost that allows us to meet our cost targets for any future fuel cell products. Any shortages in the supply of platinum could raise our cost of producing our fuel cell products beyond our targeted cost, thus lowering our profit margins or adversely affecting our ability to produce fuel cell products at a price consumers would be willing to pay. Problems or delays in our collaboration efforts with third parties to develop or market our fuel cell products could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products. We have entered into agreements with third parties who have agreed to assist us in developing or marketing our fuel cell products, producing and supplying components of our fuel cell products or producing the manufacturing line for our fuel cell products. We are in discussions with other third parties and may enter into similar agreements with such other parties or others in the future, of which we can give no assurances of success. Some of these collaboration agreements contemplate that these third parties will work with our scientists and employees to test various aspects of, assist in developing components of, or market, our fuel cells or fuel cell products. Such tests or development efforts may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly and the failure to maintain and service any test prototypes properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, collaborative efforts, by their nature, often create problems due to miscommunications and disparate expectations and priorities among the parties involved and may result in unexpected modifications and delays in -16- developing or marketing our fuel cell technologies or impact the cost of making and delivering our fuel cell products. Any such problems or perceived problems with these collaborative efforts could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products and technologies. Product liability or defects could negatively impact our results of operations. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions or design defects could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a well publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, resulting in a decline in demand for our products and could divert the attention of our management, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on our intellectual property. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property, which could hinder our growth and success. We regard our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights as essential to our growth and success. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions with employees and with third parties to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, patents for certain technologies and are currently applying for additional patents. We can offer no assurance that we will succeed in receiving patent and other proprietary protection in all markets we enter, or, if successful, that such protection will be sufficient. If we successfully develop and market our fuel cells or any of our other technologies, we expect to face efforts by larger companies and other organizations or authorities to undermine our patents by challenging or copying our intellectual property. Moreover, intellectual property rights are not protected in certain parts of the world. We intend to vigorously defend our material intellectual property against any challenges that may arise. However, any infringement action initiated by us may be very costly and require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to our operations. Claims by third parties that our technology infringes upon their patents may, if successful, prevent us from further developing or selling our technologies. Although we do not believe our business activities infringe upon the rights of others, nor are we aware of any pending or contemplated actions to such effect, we can give no assurance that our business activities will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. We expect our fuel cell products to compete against other fuel cell developers as well as against other advanced battery technologies and battery chargers. Our primary direct competitors are companies developing small fuel cells for the portable electronics market. Motorola, with technology licensed from the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, has been developing a direct methanol fuel cell for mobile phones and now is developing a fuel cell using a reformer. Mechanical Technology Inc., which is working with a number of scientists formerly with the Los Alamos National Laboratory, has also licensed certain fuel cell technology from Los Alamos National Laboratory to further its efforts to develop direct methanol fuel cells, and has announced that it is working with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. to develop next-generation fuel cell prototypes for -17- Samsung’s mobile phone business. Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has also announced that it is developing small fuel cells for portable electronic devices. Other companies that have announced that they are developing fuel cells for portable electronic devices are NTT DoCoMo, Inc. (which has teamed with Aquafairy Co. to jointly develop micro fuel cells for certain 3G handsets), PolyFuel, Inc. (which has announced that it has developed a new membrane that is superior to others), Neah Powers Systems, Inc. and Smart Fuel Cell GmbH. Furthermore, a large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan and elsewhere are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of power sources, including batteries and fuel cells, both for portable electronic devices and other uses, and many more are entering the markets in which we compete. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our financial results. We believe other large cell phone and portable electronic device companies are also developing fuel cells for the portable electronics market. Some of such companies providing public information about their fuel cell development programs include Toshiba Corporation, NEC Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., Casio Computer Co. Ltd., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Sony Corporation. Toshiba, Hitachi and other Japanese companies have announced their intention to unify the technical standards for micro fuel cells powered by methanol they are each developing, in the hope of boosting the market for such fuel cells. We believe that there are other companies that we may not know of that are developing fuel cells for portable electronic devices. In addition, there are other fuel cell companies focusing on different markets than the portable electronic device market that we are initially targeting. These companies, including Plug Power Inc., Avista Systems Inc. and Fuel Cell Energy Inc., are not primarily targeting the portable electronics market, although at any time these companies could introduce new products in the portable electronic device market. Ballard Power Inc., a recognized leader in PEM fuel cell technology, has announced that it is developing a direct methanol fuel cell for transportation and portable applications, however, we do not know if this is intended for the portable electronic device market. Additionally, we expect to compete with companies that develop, manufacture, and sell battery-operated chargers for portable electronic devices, including alkaline batteries, lithium battery packages and zinc-air batteries offered as chargers for cell phones, PDAs and other portable electronic devices that target many of the same markets we intend to target with our 24/7 Power Pack. Recently, Energizer has begun marketing a product called “Energi-to Go” which uses double A lithium batteries and charges a number of portable devices. Duracell has also announced that it is entering that market with a product. These companies have huge advantages of brand recognition, advertising capability and allocation of retail shelf space. Although we believe that our 24/7 Power Pack has advantages over these battery chargers, there is no assurance that we can compete against them successfully. We also expect indirect competition from battery manufacturers who utilize existing battery technologies (both rechargeable and non-rechargeable). Existing battery technologies have the significant advantage of having commercially available products today, and are backed by companies who are continuously investing in marketing and further research and development to improve their existing products and explore alternative technologies. Chip manufactures are continuing efforts to develop chips for portable devices that work more efficiently and require less power. Recently, fuel cell companies working with methanol as the fuel have announced that they have made progress in the ability to transport those fuel cells on airplanes when contained inside a portable device. We have not participated in that program since our fuel does not contain methanol. It -18- is our position that since our fuel is not hazardous because it is non-flammable and non-toxic that it conforms with regulations for use on an aircraft, although we can give no assurance in that regard. We expect competition to intensify greatly as the need for new energy alternatives becomes more apparent and continues to increase. Some of our competitors are well established and have substantially greater managerial, technical, financial, marketing and product development resources. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not be more successful in the markets in which we compete than we have been, or will be in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such a competitive environment. We may need additional funding in order to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. Since inception, we have incurred operating losses and have used cash in our operations. We have relied principally on the sale of our securities to fund our research and development activities and operations. Unless we are able to successfully develop and market our 24/7 Power Pack or any of our other technologies and products, we believe this dependence will continue. We may need additional funding in order to be competitive, to establish a stronger financial position and to continue our operations. In addition we may need additional funding if cost overruns relating to the implementation of our manufacturing lines occur, if we do not achieve our current commercialization targets, or if we determine to expend funds on advertising our 24/7 Power Pack or other products. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding, or funding on terms acceptable to us, to meet our financial obligations, if necessary, or that a third party will be willing to make such funds available. Our failure to raise additional funds could require us to delay or curtail our marketing and production programs and research and product development efforts. Additionally, our failure to successfully develop or market our fuel cell products or products derived from any of our other technologies may materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. In any event, it is not possible to make any reliable estimate of the funds required to complete the development of any of our other technologies or market and produce our fuel cell products. Our business depends on key members of our management. If we were to lose our senior technical talent or members of senior management, our business could be adversely affected. The success of our fuel cell program depends to a significant extent upon Gennadi Finkelshtain, our Chief Technical Officer - New Energies, and the other scientists, engineers and technicians on our staff. Our success further depends on our highly skilled and experienced management, including Robert K. Lifton, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Weingrow, our Deputy Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, and the other officers and employees that seek out, recognize and develop our technologies. The loss of the services of Mr. Finkelshtain, or any of our other technical talent or of Messrs. Lifton and Weingrow could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our fuel cell products into successful commercial products or any of our other technologies into commercial products. We possess key-person life insurance of $3,000,000 on Mr. Finkelshtain. Although to date we have been successful in recruiting and retaining executive, managerial and technical personnel, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel needed for our business. The failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. -19- There may be adverse effects on our earnings and our stock price due to the large amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated balance sheet showed approximately $58,205,000 of goodwill. Our goodwill balance of $58,205,000 is subject to a test for impairment at least annually, which could result in a charge to operations in the event impairment of the goodwill balance would be identified. We continue to amortize the remaining unamortized balance of our intangible assets of $256,000 as of December 31, 2006, with a remaining weighted average useful life of approximately 15 months. We may be affected by environmental and other governmental regulations. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional and more stringent changes in the future. Our operations may not be in compliance with any such future changes in laws and regulations, which could require us to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. If we fail to comply with any such changes, we may be subject to fines and penalties or we may have existing permits revoked or not subject to renewal. Furthermore, private parties in such circumstances could seek damages from us. Under any of those circumstances, we might be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action or pay substantial damage claims. As we begin to commercialize our 24/7 Power Pack, we expect to be subject to an increasing number of environmental regulations in Israel, Ireland and other jurisdictions where we develop, produce and assemble our products. Some of these regulations may require us to apply for and obtain permits prior to any such development, production or assembly, of which we can give no assurance we can obtain at minimal cost or at all. In addition, it is possible that industry specific laws and regulations will be adopted in any of these or other jurisdictions covering matters relating to our fuel cell products or our other products, such as limitations on transporting fuel cells on airplanes. Such laws or regulations could limit the growth of our products or increase our commercialization, manufacturing or distribution costs and, therefore, the price of our products so affected. Accordingly, compliance with existing or future laws and regulations as we begin our commercialization efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for damages resulting from the storage and use of large quantities of chemicals during the manufacturing process of our fuel cell products. The storage and use of large quantities of chemicals used as components of our fuel cells could expose us to the risk that such chemicals may escape into the environment, resulting in damage to natural resources or property, or injury or loss of life. Depending on the nature of the claim, our current insurance policies may not adequately, if at all, reimburse us for costs incurred to litigate or settle any such claims. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. The principal foreign currencies applicable to our business are the New Israeli Shekel, the Euro and the Swiss -20- Franc. As a result, we have exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Recently, the U.S. dollar has been volatile relative to foreign currencies. Continued foreign currency fluctuations could significantly harm our cash flow and results of operations, as well as our ability to achieve and maintain profitability as we continue to grow our business. Risks associated with conducting operations in Israel could materially adversely affect our ability to complete the development of our fuel cell technology or any of our other technologies. Our research and development facilities, our pilot manufacturing facility for our 24/7 Power Pack, as well as some of our executive offices and back-office functions, are located in the State of Israel and our key personnel and their families reside in Israel. We are, therefore, directly affected by the political, economic and military conditions in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country, whether due to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, conflicts with Iran, or America’s war against terrorism, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of any of our fuel cell products, our technologies or our ability to supply our technology to contract manufacturers, development partners, customers or vendors. Furthermore, any interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and any other country in which we have strategic relationships could similarly adversely affect such relationships. In addition, all male adult permanent residents of Israel under the age of 54, unless exempt, are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. We are unable to assess what impact, if any, these factors may have upon our future operations. In addition, historically, Israel has suffered from high inflation and the devaluation of its currency, the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, compared to the U.S. dollar. Future inflation or further devaluations of the NIS may have a negative impact on our NIS-based obligations over time upon substantial price increases caused by inflation. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a judgment against our Israeli officers and directors, making it difficult to bring a successful lawsuit against us, or our officers and directors, individually or in the aggregate. Service of process upon our directors and officers, many of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be collectible within the United States to the extent our assets are located outside the United States. This could limit the ability of our stockholders to sue us based upon an alleged breach of duty or other cause of action. We have been informed by our Israeli legal counsel that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to limitation, Israeli courts may enforce United States final executory judgments for liquidated amounts in civil matters, obtained after a trial before a court of competent jurisdiction, according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, which enforce similar Israeli judgments, provided that: · due service of process has been effected and the defendant was given a reasonable opportunity to defend; · the obligation imposed by the judgment is executionable according to the laws relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel, such judgment is not contrary to public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel and such judgment is executionable in the state in which it was given; -21- · such judgments were not obtained by fraud and do not conflict with any other valid judgments in the same manner between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. Foreign judgments enforced by Israeli courts generally will be payable in Israeli currency, which can then be converted into United States dollars and transferred out of Israel. The judgment debtor may also pay in dollars. Judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. We do not expect to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate declaring any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are required under the Certificate of Designation relating to our Series A preferred stock to accumulate dividends to holders of our Series A preferred stock at a rate initially equivalent to $725 per share annually. No dividends may be paid upon our common stock unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends have been paid on the Series A preferred stock. Other than the payment of dividends on our Series A preferred stock, our board presently intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. The issuance of our common stock upon a fundamental change of our Series A preferred stock would have a dilutive effect on the then holders of our common stock. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the certificate of designation of our Series A preferred stock) holders of our Series A preferred stock will have the right to require us to purchase all of their respective shares of our Series A preferred stock. We will have the option to pay for those shares either in cash or in our common stock valued at a discount of 5% from the market price of our common stock. The issuance of our common stock at a discount to the market price of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on the then holders of our common stock. The right of holders to cause us to repurchase shares of our Series A preferred stock upon a fundamental change may be subject to our obligation to repay or repurchase any future indebtedness, such as credit facilities or debt securities, in connection with a fundamental change. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, into the public market, including shares of common stock issued upon exercise of options or warrants or conversion of the Series A preferred stock, or perceptions that those sales and/or conversions could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital in the future. -22- Our issuance of additional common stock or preferred stock may cause our common stock price to decline, which may negatively impact your investment. Issuances of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, including in connection with future acquisitions, if any, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline, which may negatively impact your investment. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue additional series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock or our Series A preferred stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue cumulative preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease. Our stock price has been and could remain volatile. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to extreme price and volume limitations in response to market and other factors. As the price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market constantly changes, it is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock or interest rates will rise or fall. Trading prices of our common stock will be influenced by our operating results and prospects and by economic, financial and other factors. In addition, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally, and sales of substantial amounts of common stock by us in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could affect the price of shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None -23- Item 