ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. Risks Relating to Our Company and Industry We are substantially dependent upon sales to a relatively small group of customers. The loss of one or more major customers, or the discontinuation or modification of these customers’ products, could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and approximately 53% of our net sales for the year ended January 1, 2006. No customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2006, however, one of our customers accounted for 10.4% in 2005. The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our customers use alternative power supply providers for some or all of their products. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationships, and our customers may reduce or cancel their purchase orders, 11 purchase power supplies elsewhere or develop relationships with additional providers of power supplies, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on the collectibility of our accounts receivables, our liquidity and our future operating results. Prior to, or at the end of, a product’s life cycle, any of our customers may decide to discontinue or modify any of its products. In that event, the customer may no longer have a need for our products or may choose to integrate a competitor’s power supply into the customer’s new or modified product. The resulting loss of revenues could also adversely affect our financial condition or results of our operations. Failure by our customers or us to keep up with rapid technological change in the electronic equipment industries could result in reduced sales for us. Many of our existing customers are in the electronic equipment industries, especially wireless infrastructure and networking, and produce products that are subject to rapid technological change, obsolescence and large fluctuations in world-wide product demand. These industries are characterized by intense competition and end-user demand for increased product performance at lower prices. We may not be able to properly assess developments in the electronic equipment industries or identify product groups or customers with the potential for continued and future growth. Factors affecting the electronic equipment industries, in general, or any of our major customers or their products, in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For instance, as a provider of power supplies to OEMs in the electronic equipment industries, our sales are dependent upon the success of the underlying products of which our power supplies are a component. We have no control over the demand for or success of these products. If our customers’ products are not well received by, or if demand for their products fail to develop among end-users, our customers may discontinue or modify the product or reduce the production of the product. Any of these events could lead to the cancellation or reduction of orders for our power supplies that were previously made or anticipated, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. See ‘‘Cancellations, reductions or delays in customers’ orders or commitments, or an increase in the number of warranty product returns could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations’’ for more information. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, increasing customer demands, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and shortening product life cycles. Generally, our customers purchase our power supplies for the life cycle of a product, which can range anywhere from two to fifteen years. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and cost, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. As the life cycle of our customers’ products shorten, we will be required to bid on contracts for replacement or next generation products to replace revenues generated from discontinued products more frequently. These bids may not be successful. Even if we are successful, we may not be able to successfully develop, introduce or manage the transition of new products. Any failure or delay in anticipating technological advances or developing and marketing new products that respond to any significant technological change or significant changes in customer demand could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face significant competition, including from some competitors with greater resources and geographic presence than us. Our failure to adequately compete could have a material adverse effect on our business. The design, manufacture and sale of power supplies are highly competitive and characterized by increasing customer demands for product performance, shorter manufacturing cycles and lower prices. Our competition includes numerous companies throughout the world, some of which have advantages over us in terms of labor and component costs and technology. Our principal competitors are Emerson Network Power, Delta Electronics, Power One, Tyco International, C&D, Eltek, and Vicor. Some of our competitors have substantially greater net sales, resources and geographic presence than we do. 12 Competition from existing competitors or new market entrants may increase at any time. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that may design and manufacture their own power supplies. In times of an economic downturn, or when dealing with high-volume orders, price may become a more important competitive factor, forcing us to reduce prices and thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Some of our major competitors have also consolidated through merger and acquisition transactions. Consolidation among our competitors is likely to create companies with increased market share, customer bases, proprietary technology and marketing expertise, and an expanded sales force. These developments may adversely affect our ability to compete. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customers’ orders or commitments, or an increase in the number of warranty product returns could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers, and customers may generally cancel, reduce or postpone orders or commitments. A variety of conditions, both specific to the individual customer and generally affecting the customer’s industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders or commitments that were previously made or anticipated. At any time, a significant portion of our backlog may be subject to cancellation or postponement. Substantially our entire $47.2 million backlog as of December 1, 2006 was subject to cancellation upon the payment by our customers of cancellation fees that vary depending on individual purchase orders. We also enter into certain warehousing arrangements with some of our customers, whereby we agree to bear the risk and cost of carrying inventory. Under these arrangements, we deliver the power supplies ordered by such customers to a third-party location, permit these customers to take delivery of the power supplies within a specified time period after our delivery of the products, and invoice these customers for the products only after they have taken ultimate delivery and title has passed. We may not be able to replace cancelled, delayed or reduced orders or commitments in a timely manner or at all and in some instances may need to write-off inventory. Significant or numerous cancellations, as well as reductions or delays in orders or commitments, including as a result of delays in or the failure to take delivery of products that are subject to such arrangements, by a customer or group of customers, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We also offer our customers a warranty for products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. We regularly monitor and track warranty product returns and record a provision for the estimated amount of future warranty returns based on historical experience and any notification we receive of pending warranty returns. We may not continue to experience the same warranty return rates that we have in the past. Any significant increase in product failure rates and the resulting warranty credit returns could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which those warranty returns occur. Our international manufacturing operations and our international sales subject us to risks associated with foreign laws, policies, economies and exchange rate fluctuations. We have manufacturing operations located in Europe, India, and China. We may expand our operations into other foreign countries in the future. In addition, international sales have been, and are expected to continue to be, an important component of our total sales. International sales represented 48% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 48% of our net sales for the year ended January 1, 2006. Our manufacturing operations and international sales are subject to inherent risks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, our European Division (Cherokee Europe) has two restructuring plans in place. The first one (the 1999 Europe restructuring) was inherited by us in 2000 when we purchased this division from Panta Electronics, and the second (the 2003 Europe restructuring) was implemented in 2003 by us. Both of these plans were 13 significantly impacted by local labor laws and union labor negotiations, and required termination benefits. When we acquired Cherokee Europe in 2000, we inherited approximately $2.2 million liability to be paid through 2010. When we implemented the 2003 Europe restructuring, we recorded a $4.5 million expense to be paid through 2016. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations.’’ Other risks affecting our international operations include: · differences or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · political and economic instability; · terrorism and civil unrest; · work stoppages or strikes; · interruptions in transportation; · restrictions on the export or import of technology; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; · longer payment cycles; · problems in collecting accounts receivables; · changes in economic conditions in the international markets in which our products are sold; and · greater fluctuations in sales to customers in developing countries. Although we transact business primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our sales and expenses, including labor costs, are denominated in the Mexican peso, the Indian rupee, the Chinese renminbi (“RMB”), the Euro and other European currencies. For the year ended December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, net sales in Europe accounted for 37% and 41% of our net sales, respectively. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro impacted our revenue, cost of goods sold and operating margins for these periods and resulted in foreign currency translation gains and losses. Foreign currency translation gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income, a component of equity, for the year ended December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006 were a gain of $1.6 million and a loss of $2.6 million, respectively. Historically, we have not actively engaged in substantial exchange rate hedging activities and do not intend to do so in the future. An interruption in delivery of component supplies could lead to supply shortages or a significant increase in our cost of materials. We are dependent on our suppliers for timely shipments of components, including components manufactured by us in our India facilities. We typically use a primary source of supply for each component used in our products. Changing suppliers or establishing alternate primary sources of supply, if needed, could take a significant period of time, which in turn could result in supply shortages and increased prices. In some cases, we source components from only one manufacturer. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of products that include components that we source from only one manufacturer. In addition, many of our suppliers are located outside of the United States, and timely delivery from these suppliers may not occur due to interruptions in transportation, import-export controls, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, and political and economic stability in the country in which the components used in our products are produced or the surrounding region. An interruption in supply could have a material adverse affect on our operations. Any shortages of particular components could increase product delivery times and costs associated with manufacturing, thereby reducing gross margins. Additionally, these 14 shortages could cause a substantial loss of business due to shipment delays. Any significant shortages or price increases of components could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly sales may fluctuate while our expenditures remain relatively fixed, potentially resulting in lower gross margins and volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations in customer needs, cancellations, reductions and delays in orders and commitments may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. See ‘‘Cancellations, reductions or delays in customers’ orders or commitments or an increase in the number of warranty product returns could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.’’ Variations in volume production orders and in the mix of products sold by us have also significantly affected sales and gross profit. Sales are generally impacted by a combination of these items and may also be affected by other factors. These factors include: · the receipt and shipment of large orders or reductions in these orders (including the impact of any customer warehousing arrangements); · raw material availability and pricing; · product and price competition; and · the length of sales cycles. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales in a given quarter may depend on obtaining orders for products to be manufactured and shipped in the same quarter in which those orders are received. As a result of this and other factors described above, sales for future quarters are difficult to predict and our financial condition or results of operations in a given quarter may be below our expectations and our gross margins may decrease. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels are below expectations, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially, and our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy is dependent on our ability to retain and attract key personnel. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy depends to a significant degree on the efforts of Jeffrey M. Frank, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Linster W. Fox, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, and Mukesh Patel, Executive Vice President, Global Operations, along with other members of our senior management team. We have no employment retention agreements with our key management executives and do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. We believe that the loss of service of any of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we depend on highly skilled engineers and other personnel with technical skills that are in high demand and are difficult to replace. As a result, our ability to maintain and enhance product and manufacturing technologies and to manage any future growth also depends on our success in attracting and retaining personnel with highly technical skills. The competition for these qualified technical personnel may be intense if the relatively limited number of qualified and available power engineers continues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified technical personnel. 15 Changes in government regulations or product certification could result in delays in shipment or loss of sales. Our operations are subject to general laws, regulations and government policies in the United States and abroad. Additionally, our product standards are certified by agencies in various countries, including, among others, the United States, Canada, Asia, Germany and the United Kingdom. Changes in these laws, regulations, policies or certification standards could negatively affect the demand for our products, result in the need to modify our existing products, increase time-to-production or affect the development of new products, each of which may involve substantial costs, or loss of or delayed sales and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Environmental compliance could require significant expenditures and failure to so comply could result in fines or revocation of licenses or permits, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations (in both the United States and abroad) that govern the handling, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, including into the air, water and soil. Environmental laws could become even more stringent in the future, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with their violation or the contamination of the environment. Should there be an environmental accident or violation related to our operations, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under environmental laws and could also be subject to a revocation of licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The following are two European Economic Community (“EEC”) directives that are having an effect on the entire electronics industry, including the Company: (1) Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, more commonly known as RoHS. This European directive bans the use of certain elements that are commonly found in components used to manufacture electrical and electronic assemblies. This directive became effective on July 1, 2006. We are actively working with our customers to ensure compliance. We are focused on consuming all non-compliant material on-hand within a reasonable period. However, we may have to dispose of non-compliant materials in the future, which could adversely affect our financial performance. There is also a risk of fines associated with non-compliance with the RoHS directive; however, we are not aware of any specific potential fines, and we anticipate complying with all provisions of this legislation. (2) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, also known as WEEE. This directive requires manufacturers and importers to properly recycle or dispose of such equipment at the end of its useful life. This directive became effective August 13, 2005. We believe we have limited exposure to the WEEE directive because our products are usually installed into another user’s system, but this directive may be interpreted and enforced differently in the future. If so, we may face significant risk of fines and costs associated with non-compliance with the existing laws and regulations in the European Union. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by earthquakes, fires, electrical blackouts, power losses, telecommunications failures and other events beyond our control. Our executive offices and key manufacturing and engineering facilities are located in Southern California. Because Southern California is an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our facilities in Southern California and the surrounding transportation infrastructure, which could affect our ability to make and transport our products. Furthermore, the State of California experienced 16 deficiencies in its power supply in 2002, which resulted in occasional rolling blackouts and caused us two-to-four hour power supply interruptions over the course of a few days. In addition, California continues to face periodic shortages in its power supply. If rolling blackouts or other disruptions in power occur, our business and operations would be disrupted, and our business would be adversely affected. In January 2004, we experienced a fire in part of our facility in Belgium, Europe, which destroyed certain inventory, property and equipment. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur and would not compensate us for the loss of consumer goodwill due to disruption of service. Third parties may sue us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. We have received, from time to time, notices of alleged infringement and/or invitations to take licenses from third parties asserting that they have patents (or other intellectual property rights) that are relevant to our present or contemplated business operations. There is no guarantee that we will be able to avoid incurring litigation costs related to such assertions. Intellectual property claims could be successfully asserted against us, preventing us from using certain of our technologies, or forcing us to modify our technology or to pay license fees for use of that technology. Such additional engineering expenses or licensing costs could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. In addition, we could incur substantial expenses in defending against these claims, whether or not we ultimately prevail against these claims. Provisions of the agreements governing our debt will restrict our business operations. At December 31, 2006, we had $46.6 million of 5.25% senior notes outstanding, and we had in place a $20.0 million senior revolving credit facility (with no amounts outstanding) that is subject to a borrowing base comprised of eligible accounts receivable and inventory. Our outstanding indebtedness, including our 5.25% senior notes and any debt incurred pursuant to the senior revolving credit facility, is secured by substantially all of our assets. Cherokee Europe maintains a working capital line of credit of approximately $4.0 million with Bank Brussels Lambert, a subsidiary of ING Belgie NV, a bank in Brussels, which is denominated in Euros, collateralized by a pledge in first and second rank over a specific amount of business assets, requires Cherokee Europe to maintain a certain specific minimum solvency ratio, and is cancelable at any time. As of December 31, 2006, Cherokee Europe had no outstanding borrowings under the line of credit. We may need to incur additional debt to continue to grow our business in the future. The agreements governing our debt contain a number of covenants that restrict our business operations, including covenants limiting our ability to make investments, enter into mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets, incur additional debt, grant liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, repay other debt and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with our covenants set forth in the agreements. However, as of April 2, 2007, we were out of compliance with the requirement that we submit our annual audited financial statements to GE Capital Corporation, the agent under our revolving credit facility, within 120 days of our fiscal year end. We have obtained a waiver of this default from GE Capital Corporation effective May 10, 2007. This waiver extends the deadline for submitting our audited financial statements until August 31, 2007. The Company will submit the audited financial statements the day we file this Form 10-K. Our ability to comply with covenants under agreements governing our debt may be affected by events that are beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with the covenants or restrictions contained in agreements governing our debt could result in an event of default under these agreements, which could result in our debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, being declared immediately due and payable. 17 Our 5.25% Senior Notes mature on November 1, 2008, and we may be unable to repay or refinance this indebtedness upon maturity. On November 1, 2008, the $46.6 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under our 5.25% Senior Notes will become due and payable. We do not expect to have sufficient cash available at the time of maturity to repay this indebtedness. We also cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets or cash flow available to support refinancing these notes at current market rates or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we are unable to refinance on terms satisfactory to us, we may be forced to refinance on terms that are materially less favorable, seek funds through other means such as a sale of some of our assets, or otherwise significantly alter our operating plan, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Credit risks could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Negative or declining economic conditions can increase our exposure to our customers’ credit risk. In particular, sales to larger customers are sometimes made through contract manufacturers that do not have the same resources as those customers. Additionally, if one of our major customers experienced financial difficulties, losses could be in excess of our current allowance. At December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, one of our customers accounted for approximately 6.9% of our total net receivables and another one of our customers accounted for 10.3%, respectively. For the periods ended December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, our accounts receivable write-offs amounted to less than 1% of our net accounts receivable balance. In the event our customers or those contract manufacturers experience financial difficulties and fail to meet their financial obligations to us, or if our recorded bad debt provisions with respect to receivables obligations do not accurately reflect future customer payment levels, we could incur additional write-offs of receivables that are in excess of our provisions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, we depend on the continuing willingness of our suppliers to extend credit to us to finance our inventory purchases. If suppliers become concerned about our ability to generate cash and service our debt, they may delay shipments to us or require payment in advance. If we fail to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market and the Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy certain period reporting requirements. On April 5, 2007, we received a notice from the Nasdaq that the Nasdaq had determined to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market as a result of non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 with the SEC. We [expect to receive] an additional letter of similar substance from the Nasdaq related to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. We have appealed the Nasdaq’s determination to delist our common stock, and a hearing with the staff of the Nasdaq has been scheduled for May 31, 2007. There is no guarantee that we will be able to delay or prevent the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, the price of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our common stock would be adversely affected. In addition, such delisting could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing and could result in the loss of confidence by our investors, suppliers and employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 