ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Economic Conditions Unprecedented economic conditions have and are likely to continue to affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Unprecedented national and global market and economic conditions that began in 2008 have been and continue to be challenging with high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and minimal economic recovery in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. and many other economies. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, to the extent it impacts the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, reduces the extent to which employers are able to offer pharmacy benefits or reduces the number of employees receiving pharmacy benefits through their employer. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Business The enactment and implementation of health care reforms could have a materially adverse effect on the manner in which we operate our business and affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, were signed into law. These statutes, or the Health Care Law, require significant changes in the manner in which health insurance coverage is administered and made available in the United States, including applicable pharmacy benefits. The Health Care Law contains PBM transparency provisions that will require PBMs like us to report a variety of financial information to the federal government, including pricing, rebate, and discount information, which will be made publicly available by the federal government. While we have historically operated our business in a transparent manner with respect to our clients, there can be no assurance that the public availability of commercial financial information from all PBMs will not adversely alter the discounts, rebates, and fees that PBMs including us can negotiate in the commercial marketplace. Beyond the provisions directly applicable to PBMs, the Health Care Law contains broad provisions designed to alter the structure of the market for health insurance, and changes in the health insurance market as a whole will impact the market for our pharmacy benefit management services. The Health Care Law defines qualifying health benefits packages, including applicable prescription drug coverage, to be offered by employers or to be obtained by individuals through insurance exchanges. The Health Care Law also contains a variety of requirements applicable to health insurers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restrictions on the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishment of minimum medical cost ratios, the imposition of new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, and annual fees payable by pharmaceutical manufacturers on brand drugs. Many provisions of the Health Care Law become effective at various dates through 2014, and the impact of the Health Care Law remains uncertain pending promulgation of applicable regulations and implementation of the Health Care Law by health insurers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and federal and state authorities. There can be no assurance that the new regulations and implementation of the Health Care Law will not disrupt the market for our PBM services over the next several years, including through our clients reducing or delaying the purchase of PBM services, clients seeking to reduce administrative fees and expenses paid to PBMs, and manufacturers reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. Such market disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Competition in our industry is intense and could reduce or eliminate our profitability. The PBM industry is very competitive. PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. If we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. The industry is highly consolidated and dominated by a few large, profitable, well-established companies with significant financial and marketing resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages that we do not have. Scale is a particularly important factor in negotiating prices with pharmacies and drug manufacturers. A limited number of firms, including national and regional PBM companies such as Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Rx, Inc., and Express Scripts, Inc., have an aggregate market share of approximately 70% of prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. Some of our services, such as disease management services, informed decision counseling services and medical information management services, also compete with those being offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers, specialized disease management companies and information service providers. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. We are dependent on a group of key customers, and if we lose key clients as a result of competitive bidding for contracts or contract renewals, consolidation of clients or otherwise, our business, profitability, and growth prospects could suffer. We depend on a group of clients for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top twenty clients generated approximately 81% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, including approximately 14% from Wellmark Blue Cross Blue Shield of Iowa and approximately 10% from the State of Maryland. In addition, we generated approximately 7% of our revenue for the three and a half months ended December 31, 2010 from Independence Blue Cross, following our acquisition of FutureScripts LLC on September 13, 2010. Our agreement 20 Table of Contents with Wellmark Blue Cross Blue Shield terminates in 2017 and our agreement with Independence Blue Cross terminates in 2020, subject in both cases to the client’s right to terminate earlier for breach or if we are unable to provide competitive pricing. Our agreement with the State of Maryland terminates on June 30, 2011. The clients comprising our top twenty clients may change periodically, based on volume, acquisitions, and other factors. Substantially all of our contracts with our clients are entered into for a specific term, generally three years, and as a result, on average at any time, one-third of our revenue for the preceding twelve months is attributable to agreements that are up for renewal and re-bid over the upcoming twelve months. In addition, substantially all of our contracts with our clients are subject to early termination if either party breaches the agreement. As contracts with our clients approach their termination date, our clients either seek to extend the agreement with us for a specified period, or seek competitive bids from us and other providers for a new agreement. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can expend significant time and effort in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. Historically, we have successfully retained the business of more than 90% of our clients who had contracts scheduled to expire at the beginning of a calendar year or with whom we entered into a competitive re-bid during a calendar year. There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully extend expiring agreements with our clients, that we will win any competitive bid to renew such agreements, or that we will be able to improve or maintain our historic retention rate of existing business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we fail to extend or win competitive renewals with a significant number of our top clients. In addition, over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations generally reduce the number of clients who may need our services, and can result in our clients being acquired by companies that may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, the acquired client’s contract with us. If a significant number of our key clients are acquired by, or acquires, companies with which we do not have contracts, or if the financial condition of a significant number of our key clients otherwise deteriorates, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we lose pharmacy network affiliations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and consequently our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. In addition, several large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or rebate intermediaries, or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers or intermediaries decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. We receive rebates from rebate intermediaries and numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer if: • we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or rebate intermediaries; • we are unable to finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers for 2011 or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements; 21 Table of Contents • rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds, or due to the failure of rebate intermediaries to meet thresholds imposed on them by pharmaceutical manufacturers; • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers or rebate intermediaries to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; • pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services or those of rebate intermediaries with whom we have arrangements; or • rebates decline due to contract branded products losing their patents. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have a substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and with our PBM clients, as well as our mail order pharmacy reimbursement rates, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include AWP, AMP and Wholesale Acquisition Cost, or WAC. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard. Recent events, including litigation involving First DataBank and Medispan, have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Additionally, CMS regulations regarding the Medicaid AMP calculation could potentially impact our ability to negotiate rebates and discounts, as well as our retail pharmacy network and mail order pricing and PBM client contracts. Because we are awaiting revised final regulations and updated guidance from CMS, we are unable to predict whether and to what extent the updated CMS AMP regulation will impact our business. Thus far, our business has not been materially adversely affected by the AMP regulations. These matters are discussed in detail under “Business—Government Regulation – Combined Federal and State Laws, Regulations and Other Standards Affecting Our Business — Legislation and Litigation Affecting Drug Prices,” above. We believe that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs are in the process of evaluating other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in future periods. If our business continues to grow rapidly and we are unable to manage this growth, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our business has grown rapidly since 2000, in part due to acquisitions, with total annual PBM revenue increasing from $4.9 million in 2000 to $3.8 billion in 2010. Our business strategy is to continue to seek to expand our operations, including through possible acquisitions. If we are unable to finance continued growth, manage future expansion or hire and retain the personnel needed to manage our business successfully, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our growth in operations has placed significant demands on our management and other resources, which is likely to continue. Under these conditions, it is important for us to retain our existing management and to attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers, managers and employees. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to future acquisitions, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Part of our growth strategy includes making acquisitions involving new markets and complementary products, services, technologies and businesses. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to such future acquisitions, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition prospects and negotiate and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions: • we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of an acquired company; • there could be inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial reporting, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; • we may experience difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; • we could be required to amortize the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and we also would be required to reduce our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition; • we could be exposed to unanticipated liabilities of acquired businesses; • our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and • we could lose key employees or customers of the acquired business. There are risks associated with integrating and operating newly acquired businesses. We can give no assurance that if we do acquire any new business organizations in the future, we will successfully operate and integrate them. Many companies compete for acquisition opportunities in the PBM industry. Most of our competitors are companies that have significantly greater financial and management resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions necessary to the future success of our business. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our credit ratings and profile, and the covenants and restrictions in our credit facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial indebtedness under our credit facilities, particularly to fund future acquisitions, and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. In such an event, we would be required to devote a portion of our cash flows from operating activities to service our indebtedness, and such cash flows would therefore not be available for other corporate purposes. We have $148.1 million outstanding under our term loan facility. We also have the ability under our credit facilities to draw upon our $200.0 million revolver, and an additional $100.0 million of term loan or revolving loan debt if certain conditions are satisfied under our credit facilities (including the agreement of current or new lenders to extend additional credit to us). We may also seek additional debt financing to fund part of our growth strategy of making acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may: • adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of interest on our indebtedness; • subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases based upon variable interest rates, including our borrowings (if any) under our revolving credit facility; 23 Table of Contents • increase the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments; and • limit our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions of our business than our competitors with less debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding and future indebtedness may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments. For example, our credit facilities restrict our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt or issue guarantees; incur or permit certain liens to exist; make certain investments, acquisitions or other restricted payments; modify our organizational documents; dispose of assets; engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; and merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt facilities, or to obtain additional financing and facilities. However, we may not be able to obtain any such refinancing or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. If we become subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may be liable for damages and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages. These include, but are not limited to, the performance of PBM services, the operation of our call centers and Web site, and the potential for dispensing errors in the operation of our mail order pharmacies. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. Disruption of our point of sale information system and transaction processing system, which relies on third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our operations utilize an electronic network connecting over 63,000 retail pharmacies to process third-party claims. This system is provided by a third-party adjudication vendor. Because claims are adjudicated in real time, systems availability and reliability are key to meeting customers’ service expectations. Any interruption in real time service, either through systems availability or telecommunications disruptions can significantly damage the quality of service we provide. Our PBM services also depend on third-party proprietary software to perform automated transaction processing. There can be no assurance that our business will not be harmed by service interruptions or software performance problems. The failure by our health plan clients to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our contracts with retail pharmacies which participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our clients. If our clients delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, lose clients, be required to pay substantial damages and make significant changes to our operations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We must devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we substantially comply with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Among the legislation and government regulations that could affect us as a provider of PBM services are the regulatory matters discussed in detail in under “Business—Government Regulation,” above, specifically including Medicare Part D laws and regulation, federal anti-remuneration/fraud and abuse laws, federal statutes prohibiting false claims, ERISA regulation, FDA regulation, antitrust regulation, health care reform legislation, state anti-remuneration/false claims laws, state consumer protection laws, state comprehensive PBM regulation, network access legislation, state legislation affecting plan or benefit design, state regulation of financial risk plans, state discount drug card regulation, privacy and confidentiality legislation, legislation and litigation affecting drug prices, voluntary industry ethical guidelines, and future legislation or regulatory initiatives. We are subject to potential lawsuits under ERISA and the potential liabilities associated with being found to be a fiduciary of a health plan governed by ERISA. As a service provider to ERISA plans, we are subject to potential litigation under ERISA claims and could face potential liabilities if we are found to be acting as a fiduciary of a plan in carrying out the services for which we are under contract. While we do not believe that the general conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations set forth by ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with an ERISA plan sponsor to accept fiduciary responsibility and be named as a fiduciary for certain functions, recent litigation has revealed uncertainties with respect to whether, and under what circumstances, courts will find PBMs to be acting as plan fiduciaries. The potential impact of ERISA liability on our business operations is more fully described in the detailed discussion of ERISA regulation under “Business – Government Regulation-Federal Laws and Regulations Affecting Our Business - ERISA Regulation,” above. Medicare Part D laws subject us to certain regulations and scrutiny, even in our limited roles as a subcontractor and mail service provider to Part D Plans. The Medicare Part D program is continuing to evolve, and there are still many uncertainties presented by the program, which is one of the reasons we have opted not to directly sponsor a PDP. However, we do contract with Medicare Part D Plans, as described under “Business—Government Regulation,” above. In the limited capacity of a subcontractor and as a mail service provider, we are indirectly subject to certain regulatory requirements, as more fully described in the detailed discussion of Medicare Part D Laws and Regulations and its potential implications under “Business—Government Regulation,” above. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession and retention for our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance. We believe that our ability to retain an experienced workforce and our ability to hire additional qualified employees is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain such employees. An inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 