ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects are subject to the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently foreseeable to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in the shares of our common stock. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY TO MAXIMIZE OUR POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE GROWTH AND ACHIEVE OUR EXPECTED REVENUES, WE NEED TO MANAGE GROWTH IN OUR CURRENT OPERATIONS. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management and on our operational, accounting, and information systems. We expect that as we continue to grow we will need to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems to handle increased operations. We will also need to effectively train, motivate, and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT OUR ORGANIC GROWTH STRATEGY WILL BE SUCCESSFUL. One of our growth strategies is to grow organically by increasing the distribution and sales of our products in new markets outside of China. However, many obstacles to entering new markets exist, such as the costs associated with entering into new markets, developing and implementing effective marketing efforts abroad and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to successfully implement our organic growth strategy may have a negative impact on our growth strategy and on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. -11- WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT OUR ACQUISITION GROWTH STRATEGY WILL BE SUCCESSFUL. In addition to our organic growth strategy we also expect to grow through strategic acquisitions. We intend to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses that are complementary or related to our existing product lines. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we successfully consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition on terms that are satisfactory to us or, if the acquisition occurs successfully, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in China, including of state owned businesses, will be required to comply with laws of the People's Republic of China ("PRC"), to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals to the extent required, which may be necessary to consummate such acquisitions. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO IMPLEMENT OUR STRATEGIES TO ACHIEVE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES, OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our business plan and growth strategy is based on currently prevailing circumstances and the assumption that certain circumstances will or will not occur, as well as the inherent risks and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. If we are not able to successfully implement our strategies, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. IF WE NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR GROWING OPERATIONS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT CAPITAL AND MAY BE FORCED TO LIMIT THE SCOPE OF OUR OPERATIONS. As we implement our growth strategies, we may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (1) our profitability; (2) the release of competitive products by our competition; (3) the level of our investment in research and development; and (4) the amount of our capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: o reduce our investments in research and development; o limit our marketing efforts; and o decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could have a material adverse affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, new equity or convertible debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. -12- WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY DEFENDING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS FROM INFRINGEMENT. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Certain of our products have received trademark and patent protection in the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong. No assurance can be given that such patents and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantage to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license from a third-party technology that we may need to conduct our business or that such technology can be licensed at a reasonable cost. Presently we sell our products mainly in China, including Hong Kong. China will remain our primary market for the foreseeable future. We are studying the market in the United States, but we do not have immediate plans to market our product in the United States or enter into any other countries or regions. To date, no trademark or patent filings have been made other than in China and Hong Kong. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. A DISPROPORTIONATE AMOUNT OF OUR SALES REVENUE IS DERIVED FROM FOUR OF OUR PRODUCT LINES AND A DISRUPTION IN, OR COMPROMISE OF, OUR MANUFACTURING OR SALES OPERATIONS, OR DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS RELATED TO ANY OF THESE FOUR PRODUCT LINES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our top four product lines (Shuanghuanglian lyophilized injection powder, Cease-enuresis soft gel, Jinji Series of products and Soybean peptide) constituted more than approximately 93% of our total sales in fiscal 2006. A disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels, relating to any of these four product lines could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchases prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON THIRD PARTIES TO SUPPLY RAW MATERIALS, AND ANY ADVERSE CHANGES IN SUCH SUPPLY OR THE COSTS OF RAW MATERIALS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. We currently obtain all of our raw materials from third parties and through various farms. Due to the nature of the raw materials, mainly plants, the supply of these raw materials can be adversely affected by any material change in the climatic or environmental conditions in China, which may, in turn, result in increased costs to purchase these raw materials. INTENSE COMPETITION FROM EXISTING AND NEW ENTITIES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing, or can be expected to develop, products similar to ours. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We intend to create greater brand awareness for our brand name so that we can successfully compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. -13- WE DO NOT HAVE PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE AND OUR PRODUCTS AND THE PROCESSES COULD EXPOSE US TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Side effects or marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in product liability claims or adverse publicity. These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future. We currently carry insurance policies which are customary for enterprises in China providing for total coverage of approximately $6.6 million, including property coverage of approximately $6 million, transport vehicles of approximately $216,000, and workers' medical and accident coverage of approximately $361,000. There are no special restrictions or exceptions attached to this coverage other than fraudulent or criminal conducts on part of the claimant. We do not carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance may expose us to enormous risks associated with potential product liability claims. WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THEIR SERVICES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Tony Liu, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Yanchun Li, our acting Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer and Secretary, Min Jun, our vice president and director; and Li Binsheng our Chief Accounting Officer and director. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. WE MAY NEVER PAY ANY DIVIDENDS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. We did not declare any dividends for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our board of directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the near future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS REQUIRE US TO COMPLY WITH A NUMBER OF U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL REGULATIONS. We need to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties and/or restrictions in our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. -14- WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH U.S. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these newly applicable rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY RAISING NECESSARY CAPITAL TO FUND OPERATIONS AS A RESULT OF MARKET PRICE VOLATILITY OF OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain equity financing through debt and equity or other means. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Such volatility may make it more difficult to find investors willing to invest in our common stock, or to negotiate equity financing or terms that are acceptable to us. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY IN ATTRACTING TALENT IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. Outside China, we currently have an office and conduct sales in Hong Kong. We have a representative office in the United States for investor relations and market study. In the future, we may explore expanding our operations in the United States, as well as other countries in Asia. However, upon effecting any such expansion, we may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to our lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede our opportunities for international expansion. RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA THERE COULD BE CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS TOWARDS THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND HEALTH SUPPLEMENT INDUSTRIES THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in the PRC is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. The State Food and Drug Administration of China recently implemented new guidelines for licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses, which are currently valid under the previous guidelines, are required to apply for the Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP") certifications by June 30, 2004, and to receive approvals by December 31, 2004. We have received our certifications. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications under the new guidelines in the future, our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions of the pharmaceutical industry in the PRC may also change and may significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. -15- CERTAIN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS RELATING TO PRC COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. The PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC's economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. THE RECENT NATURE AND UNCERTAIN APPLICATION OF MANY PRC LAWS APPLICABLE TO US CREATE AN UNCERTAIN ENVIRONMENT FOR BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND THEY COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON US. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. CURRENCY CONVERSION AND EXCHANGE RATE VOLATILITY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People's Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day's dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of Renminbi into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. -16- Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. AOBO's wholly owned subsidiaries Three Happiness, HSPL and GLP are FIEs to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for Renminbi against the United States dollars remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS AND ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL JUDGMENTS UPON OUR COMPANY AND OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS BECAUSE THEY RESIDE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. As our operations are presently based in China and our officers and certain of our directors reside in China, service of process on our company and our officers and certain directors may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, our main assets are located in China and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. ANY FUTURE OUTBREAK OF AVIAN INFLUENZA, OR THE ASIAN BIRD FLU, OR ANY OTHER EPIDEMIC IN CHINA COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Since mid-December 2003, a growing number of Asian countries have reported outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in chickens and ducks. Since all of our operations are in China, an outbreak of the Asian Bird Flu in China in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, an new outbreak of Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic, may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our customers or partners, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY UNEXPECTED CHANGES IN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We are subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we have operations. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariff and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, such as Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong, which would limit our international expansion. MOST OF OUR ASSETS ARE LOCATED IN CHINA, ANY DIVIDENDS OF PROCEEDS FROM LIQUIDATION IS SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE RELEVANT CHINESE GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. Our assets are predominantly located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency's approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment and liquidation. -17- THERE HAVE BEEN RECENT INCIDENTS IN WHICH PATIENTS HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE ADVERSE REACTIONS FOLLOWING THE USE OF PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURED IN CHINA. There have been recent incidents reported in the Chinese media of a significant number of patients experiencing severe adverse health consequences following their use of pharmaceutical products manufactured by certain pharmaceutical companies in China. A number of patients have become ill and a number of fatalities have been reported. For example, several deaths were caused by drugs sold by the Second Pharmaceutical Factory of Qiqihaer, a PRC drug manufacturer, in May 2006. Concerns over the safety of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products, including products manufactured by us. We have not, to date, experienced any significant quality control or safety problems. If in the future we become involved in incidents of the type described above, such problems could severely and adversely impact our product sales and reputation. ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO CORRECT CORRUPTIVE PRACTICES IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES AND REPUTATION. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors' practices, investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 