Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Although the risks and uncertainties listed below are those that we consider significant, material risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us may also adversely affect our operations.Our success depends in part on the continued success of our brands and the reputation and popularity of Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse. Any adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart or Mr. Lagasse, or the loss of either of their services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base.The brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the “Martha Stewart Living” brand is critical to expanding our base of consumers, advertising relationships, and merchandising and licensing partners. Our brand may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including the reputation of our content and products, our ability to adapt to technological changes, litigation, and the reputation and popularity of Martha Stewart. Maintaining and enhancing the “Martha Stewart Living” brand will depend largely on our ability to be a leader in providing life-style content and high quality products, which we may not do successfully. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Further, while we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products and services as stand-alone brands, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse remain important factors of our success.Ms. Stewart’s efforts, personality and leadership, including her services as an officer and director of MSO, have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While in the past we have managed our business without her daily participation, an extended or permanent loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained negative shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In July 2013 the Board of Directors of the Company and Ms. Stewart agreed to certain modifications to the employment agreement between Ms. Stewart and the Company, dated April 1, 2009, including extending the term of her employment through June 30, 2017.In addition, in 2008 we acquired the assets relating to Emeril Lagasse’s businesses other than his restaurants and foundation (the “Emeril Assets”). The value of the Emeril Assets is largely related to the ongoing popularity and participation of Mr. Lagasse in the activities related to exploiting these assets. Therefore, the continued value of the Emeril Assets could be materially adversely affected if Mr. Lagasse were to lose popularity with the public or be unable to participate in our business for any reason, therefore potentially forcing us to write-down a significant amount of the value we paid for these assets.Our management turnover creates uncertainty.Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon members of our creative, technology, and sales and marketing staffs. In the last several years, several members of our senior management team have left the Company and we have focused time and resources on recruiting the new members of our current management team, including our new Chief Executive Officer. The continued turnover of senior management and the loss of key members of our executive team could have a negative impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We may not be able to replace departed members of management in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms and our search for replacements may cause uncertainty regarding the future of our business, impact employee hiring and retention, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely impact our revenue, operating results and financial condition.We may not be able to successfully implement our anticipated growth strategies.As part of our strategy for growth, we seek to expand our brands and merchandise categories domestically as well as grow the international presence of our publications and merchandise programs. Such endeavors involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations and increased short-term costs without any current revenue, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. Although we believe that our strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits. The failure to realize benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute plans, global or local economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we operate and the other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.11Table of ContentsWe continue to expand our merchandising and licensing programs into new products and categories, the failure of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects.Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing merchandising and licensing programs. In recent years, we have entered into several merchandising and licensing agreements, some of which include exclusivity provisions and a long-term duration. While we contractually require that our merchandising partners and licensees maintain the quality of our respective brands, we cannot be certain that our partners, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brands.We are also not able to ensure that our expansion into new business areas will be met with approval from consumers nor can we guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or, if implemented, that they will be successful. We may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusivity provisions and multi-year terms of these agreements and disputes with new or existing licensees may arise that could hinder our ability to grow or expand our product lines. Disputes with our licensing or merchandising partners may also prevent or delay our ability to collect the licensing revenue that we expect in connection with these products. If such developments occur or our merchandising programs are otherwise not successful, the value and recognition of our brands, as well as our business, financial condition and prospects, could be materially adversely affected. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details regarding the lawsuit brought by Macy’s Inc. and Macy’s Merchandising Group in 2012. If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our brands and business will be adversely affected.The success of our brands and our business depends on our ability originate product trends and to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming and content that strongly appeal to a large number of consumers, as well as distribute the content in a manner appealing to consumers. Our content and products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are unable to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes and trends for ideas, information, concepts, programming, technology, content and products or if our new content or products are not accepted by our consumers, our competitors could introduce similar content or products in a more timely fashion which could hurt the strength of our brand and our business. Further, even if we are successful in anticipating shifts in consumer tastes and trends, we cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past. Our failure to effectively predict, respond to or introduce new content or products that are accepted by consumers could result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and offering new products and services to our existing merchandising partners.The continued growth of our business will depend in part on our ability to develop and offer new products and services to our existing merchandising partners that successfully gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of our current and future customers and remain consistent with the look and feel of our brands. Although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop, launch and market successful new products or variants of existing products, nor can we guarantee that these products will be successful or profitable. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products are costly and inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of our brands, as well have an adverse effect on our profitability from year to year based on the number and timing of new product launches.We operate in two highly competitive businesses: Publishing and Merchandising, each of which subjects us to competitive pressures and other uncertainties.We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our two principal segments.Our print and digital products face substantial competition for advertising revenues from a variety of sources, such as magazines, books, television, radio and other forms of traditional media; direct marketing; and advertising-supported digital products, including websites, digital applications and social media sites. Competition for advertising revenue in print publications is primarily based on advertising rates, editorial quality the nature and scope of readership, reader response to the promotions for advertisers’ products and services, the desirability of the magazines demographic and the effectiveness of advertising sales teams. Certain of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do to attract and retain advertisers and we may not be able to compete effectively against them. 12Table of ContentsIn recent years, the advertising industry has experienced a secular shift toward digital advertising where competition is based on the number of unique users we attract each month, the demographic profile of that audience and the number of pages they view on our site. Digital advertising is less expensive and can offer more measurable returns than traditional print media. Digital advertising networks and exchanges, real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels that allow advertisers to buy audiences at scale are also playing a more significant role in the advertising marketplace. Competition from all of these media and services, many of which charge lower rates than we do, as well as increased inventory in the digital marketplace, affect our ability to attract and retain advertisers and consumers and to maintain or increase our advertising rates, which could adversely affect advertising revenues. Our Merchandising segment competitors consist of mass-market, home improvement and department stores that compete with similar stores in which our products are sold. Our merchandising lines also compete within the mass-market, home improvement and department stores that carry our product lines with other products offered by these stores in the same product categories we sell in, including with products sold under our partners' private labels. We also compete with the internet businesses of these stores and other websites that sell similar retail goods.Our failure to meet competitive pressures could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.We continually invest in our digital platforms and if we are unable to continue to drive and retain visitors to our digital platforms by offering creative, high-quality and engaging content nor effectively monetize our digital platforms, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected.Technology in the publishing industry continues to evolve rapidly. Advances in technology have led to an increasing number of methods for delivery of content and have resulted in a wide variety of consumer demands and expectations, which are also rapidly evolving. Although we have made, and continue to make, investments in our website and digital properties in order to transition from traditional print publications to digital distribution of our content, we cannot be certain that the ongoing investments and changes we make will increase the number of visitors to our website or digital properties. If the number of visitors to our website and digital properties stagnate or decline, we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital platforms or to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our digital platforms. Additionally, as described above, the range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising. Consequently, our digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption. A decrease in our customers’ advertising expenditures, reduced demand for our offerings or a surplus of advertising inventory could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.Further, even if we are successful in enhancing and upgrading our website and other digital properties, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to create the variety and types of content, products and interactive experiences that meet rapidly changing consumer demand in a timely manner, if at all. Any such failure to do so could adversely affect user and customer experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites. We rely on third-party vendors in our Publishing segment and our business may be harmed if they are unable to honor their obligations to us on favorable terms.We rely on third-party vendors, including paper suppliers, printers, subscription fulfillment houses, subscription agents and national newsstand wholesalers, distributors and retailers in the print portion of our Publishing segment. The industries in which our print related third-party vendors operate have experienced significant restructurings and consolidation in recent years, resulting in decreased availability of goods and services and competition. For our digital operations in our Publishing segment, we rely on third-party vendors for video advertising to deliver in-stream advertisements in our video content. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if these third party vendors encounter technological or other impediments that would prevent them from delivering in-stream advertisements to our content, our ability to maintain or grow our business could be adversely impacted. Further disruptions in these industries may make our third-party vendors unable or unwilling to provide us with goods and services on favorable terms and may lead to greater dependence on certain vendors, increased prices, and interruptions and delays in the services provided by these vendors, all of which would adversely affect our business. Our business has been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions and a failure of the economy to sustain its recovery or a renewed decline in consumer spending could materially adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues and the results of our operations. Many economic and other factors outside of our control, including consumer credit availability, increased unemployment, a downturn in housing sales and remodels and declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, particularly 13Table of Contentsdiscretionary spending, have had an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. In our Merchandising segment, economic weakness and unfavorable consumer spending trends continue to impact spending on general merchandise and homes and home improvement projects-categories in which we license our brands-resulting in weaker revenues from our licensed products. If our merchandising partners experience declining revenues or other financial difficulties, this could result in their unwillingness to continue to sell our products, their inability to timely meet their royalty payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. Further, if our merchandising partners experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which would reduce the availability of our licensed products to consumers. We cannot predict the future health and viability of the companies with which we do business and upon which we depend for royalty revenues, advertising dollars and credit.In our Publishing segment, we generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising and we cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. Since 2009, we have seen a significant downturn in the availability of advertising dollars, and more competition for the reduced dollars causing us to experience a decline in advertising revenues. If advertisers continue to spend less money as a result of continued weak and uncertain economic conditions or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our magazines or websites our Publishing segment and advertising revenues will be materially adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in paper, postage and distribution costs.Paper represents a significant component of the print portion of our Publishing segment. Paper is a commodity and the prices have experienced volatility over the past several years. We generally purchase paper from major paper suppliers who adjust the price periodically and according to prevailing market prices. We have not entered, nor do we currently plan to enter, into long-term forward price or option contracts for paper. Accordingly, significant increases in paper prices would adversely affect our results of operations. Postage for magazine distribution is also one of our significant expenses. We primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute magazine subscriptions. In recent years, postage rates have increased, and any significant future increase in postage prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. Distribution of magazines to newsstands and bookstores is conducted primarily through companies known as wholesalers. Although we have not experienced any material increase in the price of services, wholesalers have previously advised us that they intend to increase the price of their services. Further, certain wholesalers have experienced credit and going concern risks and it is possible that other wholesalers may seek to increase the price of their services or discontinue operations. An increase in the price of our wholesalers’ services, or a disruption or delay in deliveries due to the need to change wholesalers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a continued weakening of newsstand sales.The magazine industry has experienced a significant weakening of newsstand sales during the past few years. A prolonged decline in the circulation volume of our publications will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by further reducing our circulation revenue and causing us to either incur higher circulation expenses to maintain our rate bases, or to reduce our rate bases, which would in turn negatively impact our revenue.Electronically stored data is subject to the risk of unauthorized access and if our data is compromised in spite of our attempts at protecting this data, we may incur significant costs, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation.We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential, proprietary and personal information in digital form. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering and theft. We develop and maintain systems to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion, tampering and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. If our data systems are compromised or if the proprietary information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured resulting in loss of business or morale and we could be exposed to a risk of loss due to business interruption, or litigation. Martha Stewart controls our Company through her stock ownership. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to elect most of our board of directors, prevent or cause a change of control, or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us. As of February 21, 2014, Ms. Stewart beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock (with one vote per share) and Class B Common Stock (with 10 votes per share) having approximately 90% of the 14Table of Contentsoutstanding voting power of our Common Stock and Ms. Stewart is our Chief Creative Officer and the Non-Executive Chairman of our Board. As a result of her stock ownership and position at the Company, Ms. Stewart has the ability to exercise significant control and influence over our business, including, without limitation, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to the certificate of incorporation and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our Company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. Moreover, Ms. Stewart’s concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses and stockholders.Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations.Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity, valuable brands, content and the resulting intellectual property. We believe our proprietary trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable to our continued success and our competitive position. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights and imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and assets or otherwise adversely affect our revenues and our business. Although we vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to successfully protect our proprietary rights especially in foreign countries where the laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent the laws of the United States do. Further, if we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly and could damage our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or if we were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations.We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations and uncertainty with respect to our ability to achieve the estimated cost savings. In order to operate more efficiently and position ourselves for future profitability, we have implemented restructuring plans in the past, which included consolidation of our publications, workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives, and we may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. Restructuring activities are complex and if we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions include incurrence of restructuring charges, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business. Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of our restructuring measures, and if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.15Table of Contents