ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not yet known or currently believed to be immaterial may also impair Cytomedix’s business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of its Common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to Cytomedix securities. We Have Limited Sources of Working Capital Working capital required to implement our business plan will most likely be provided by funds obtained through offerings of our equity and/or equity-linked securities, and revenues generated by us. No assurance can be given that we will have revenues sufficient to support and sustain our operations or that we would be able to obtain equity financing in the current economic environment. If we do not have sufficient working capital and are unable to generate sufficient revenues or raise additional funds, we may delay the completion of or significantly reduce the scope of our current business plan; delay some of our development and clinical or marketing efforts; delay our plans to penetrate the market serving Medicare beneficiaries and fulfill the related data gathering requirement as stipulated by the Medicare CED coverage determination; delay the pursuit of commercial insurance reimbursement for our wound treatment technologies; delay certain development activities related to the newly acquired Aldagen business; or postpone the hiring of new personnel; or, under certain dire financial circumstances, cease our operations. We May Need Substantial Additional Financing, Which May Be Provided By Amounts Raised Under Existing Financing Agreements We may need substantial additional capital to fund our operations. To date, we have relied almost exclusively on financing transactions to fund losses from our operations. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend activities. At December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.6 million, total current assets of approximately $6.4 million and total current liabilities of approximately $2.8 million. In February 2013, we received gross proceeds of $9.5 million upon the closing of several financing transactions. These financings provide for additional potential infusions as more fully discussed in the subsequent events note to the financial statements contained in this 10-K. Based on our current operating plan, we believe we have sufficient cash through the end of 2013, but anticipate needing additional capital in 2014. However, our projections could be wrong. We could face unforeseen costs or our revenues could fall short of our projections. On February 18, 2013, the Company entered into a purchase agreement, together with a registration rights agreement, with LPC. Under this agreement, the Company has the right to sell to and LPC is obligated to purchase up to $15 million in shares of the Company’s common stock, subject to certain limitations, from time to time, over the 30 month period commencing on the date that a registration statement is declared effective by the SEC and a final prospectus in connection therewith is filed (expected to occur in the second quarter of 2013). Given the parameters within which the Company may draw down from LPC, there is no assurance that the amounts available from LPC will be sufficient to fund our future operational cash flow needs. Further, in February 2013, in a registered offering with certain institutional accredited investors, we raised gross proceeds of $5 million by selling our common stock and warrants. In addition, on February 19, 2013, the Company entered into securities purchase agreements with certain institutional accredited investors and a Credit and Security Agreement with Midcap Financial LLC. The Credit and Security Agreement provides for aggregate term loan commitments of $7.5 million. The Company received the first tranche of $4.5 million at closing. The second tranche of $3.0 million may be advanced to the Company, at the Company’s discretion, upon satisfaction of the following conditions: (i) if the Company achieves certain performance milestones for 2013 and (ii) raises an amount of not less than $5.0 million in the aggregate from (a) equity investors, and/or (b) partnership proceeds on or before July 31, 2013. The term loan will mature on August 19, 2016, and will be repaid on a straight-line amortization basis, with the first twelve months being an interest-only period and 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS commencing on the thirteenth month the principal on both the first tranche and, if applicable, on the second tranche, will be amortized in equal monthly amounts through the maturity date. New sources of capital may not be available to us when we need them or may be available only on terms we would not find acceptable. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to the outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. We May Not Be Able to Comply with the Debt Service and Loan Covenant Requirements of the MidCap Credit and Security Agreement Which Could Place the Business Assets of the Company in Jeopardy The MidCap Credit and Security Agreement requires monthly interest payments and compliance with certain covenants, including achieving revenue milestones and future capital infusions (either from the issuance of equity securities or strategic partnership agreements). Failure to make interest payments when due or to comply with the covenants could trigger a default under the agreement, which in turn could allow MidCap to seize all or any of the business assets of the Company which serve as collateral for this loan. If any key assets are seized, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the complete cessation of operations, and/or bankruptcy. We Are Subject to the SEC’s Penny Stock Rules Which May Decrease the Liquidity of Our Common Stock. We were previously operating under a compliance plan intended to allow us to regain compliance with the NYSE Amex’s stockholders’ equity requirement. On January 20, 2011, the Company notified the NYSE Amex staff of its intent to withdraw the request for a hearing and the NYSE Amex notified the Company that its stock would cease being listed on or about January 26, 2011. Over-the-counter markets are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, a stock exchange. There may be a limited market for our stock now that it is quoted on the OTCQX, trading in our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease. Specifically, shareholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the price paid for such shares or at all. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be impaired because of the less liquid nature of the over-the-counter markets. While we cannot guarantee that we would be able to complete an equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we believe that dilution from any equity financing while our shares are quoted on an over-the-counter market could be substantially greater than if we were to complete a financing while our common stock is traded on a national securities exchange. Further, now that our stock is not traded on an exchange, we may not be eligible to use short-form registration statements on Form S-3 for the registration of our securities, which could impair our ability to raise additional capital as needed. Our common stock is also subject to penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market will be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our common stock will likely be adversely affected. We cannot assure shareholders that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Integrate the Aldagen Business, or to Realize the Anticipated Synergies of the Combined Businesses The acquisition of Aldagen represents a significant investment by the Company. Although it comes with a complete infrastructure, including personnel, to proceed with its development plans, it will require significant attention and resources of non-Aldagen Cytomedix personnel which could reduce the likelihood of achievement of other corporate goals. The additional financing needs created by the Aldagen acquisition will 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS also require additional management time to address. There is no assurance that we will, on a sustainable basis, successfully integrate any or all of the various aspects to the acquired business, including but not limited to the clinical trial, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, human resource, and other functions. Failure to smoothly and successfully integrate and maintain the acquired business could lead to a reduction in revenue for the Angel®, ActivAT®, and AutoloGelTM, products compared to historical levels, generate ill will among our customer base, and therefore have a material adverse affect on us, our operations or the price of our common stock. There is no assurance that the development efforts underway with the Aldagen technology will be successful. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will realize synergies in the scientific, clinical, regulatory, or other areas as we currently contemplate. In addition, there is no assurance that we will realize any anticipated economies of scale for the combined businesses. We are Reliant on Several Single Source Suppliers and an Interruption in Our Supply Chain Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business Cytomedix is outsourcing the manufacturing of the various products, including component parts, composing the Angel Product Line to contract manufacturers. While we believe these manufacturers to be of sufficient competency, quality, reliability, and stability, there is no assurance that one or more of them will not experience an interruption or inability to provide us with the products needed to satisfy customer demand. Additionally, while most of the components of AutoloGelTM are generally readily available on the open market, a reagent, bovine thrombin, is available exclusively through Pfizer, Inc. (“Pfizer”). If a temporary or permanent interruption in the supply of products were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we are formulating plans to develop redundant capabilities, such capabilities will not take effect for the foreseeable future. While the Company does maintain business interruption insurance, there is no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all losses which would occur as a result of any interruption in supply. Adverse Conditions in the Global Economy and Disruption of Financial Markets May Significantly Restrict Our Ability to Generate Revenues or Obtain Debt or Equity Financing The global economy continues to experience volatility and uncertainty. Such conditions could reduce demand for our products which would significantly jeopardize our ability to achieve meaningful market penetration for AutoloGelTM and continued sales of Angel® and ActivAT® products. These conditions could also affect our potential strategic partners, which, in turn, could make it much more difficult to execute a strategic collaboration, and therefore significantly jeopardize our ability to fully develop and commercialize our products and product candidates. Global credit and capital markets continue to be relatively challenging. We may be unable to obtain capital through issuance of our equity and/or equity-linked securities, a significant source of funding for us throughout our history. If we are unable to secure funding through strategic collaborations, equity investments, or debt financing, we may not be able to achieve profitability, or fund our research and development activities, which may result in a cessation of operations. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause customers to reduce purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers’ ability to supply sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to fulfill sales orders. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers, investors, and business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm sales, profitability and results of operations. Economic downturns or other adverse economic changes (local, regional, or national) can also hurt our financial performance in the form of lower interest earned on investments and/or could result in losses of portions of principal in our investment portfolio. While our investment policy requires us to invest only in short-term, low risk investments, there is no assurance that principal will not be eroded as a significant portion of these investments is in excess of federally mandated insurance. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We Have a History of Losses and Expect to Incur Losses for the Foreseeable Future We have a history of losses, are not currently profitable, and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows in the future. Although, prior to the Aldagen acquisition, we were targeting operational cash flow break-even within the foreseeable future, the acquisition of Aldagen, and the expenditures necessary to fund the on-going clinical trial and related activities, will cause us to continue to generate losses. We may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We will continue to incur expenses at current or increased levels as we seek to expand our operations, pursue development of our technologies, work to increase our sales, implement internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. These ongoing financial losses may adversely affect our stock price. We Have a Short Operating History and Limited Operating Experience We must be evaluated in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. We have, only in the past few years, implemented our commercialization strategy for AutoloGelTM and have only two year’s experience operating the fully integrated Angel® and ActivAT® business. Thus, we have a very limited operating history. Continued operating losses, together with the risks associated with our ability to gain new customers for our product offerings, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We may also be forced to respond to unforeseen difficulties, such as a decreased demand for our products and services, downward pricing trends, regulatory requirements and unanticipated market pressures. Since emerging from bankruptcy and continuing through today, we are developing a business model that includes protecting our patent position, addressing our third-party reimbursement issues, developing and executing a sales and marketing program, acquiring synergistic technologies and product lines, developing other technologies covered by, or derived from, our intellectual property, and seeking strategic partnerships. There can be no assurance that our business model in its current form can accomplish our stated goals. Our Intellectual Property Assets Are Critical to Our Success We regard our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property assets as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secret and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures, to establish and protect our intellectual property. We attempt to prevent disclosure of our trade secrets by restricting access to sensitive information and requiring employees, consultants, and other persons with access to our sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements. Despite these efforts, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology in the future. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property assets is difficult and expensive. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may be necessary in the future in order to protect our intellectual property assets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any litigation matter relating to our intellectual property assets. Continuing litigation or other challenges could result in one or more of our patents being declared invalid. In such a case, any royalty revenues from the affected patents would be adversely affected although we may still be able to continue to develop and market our products. Furthermore, the unauthorized use of our patented technology by otherwise potential customers in our target markets may significantly undermine our ability to generate sales. Any infringement on or challenge to our patents or other misappropriation of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse affect on our ability to increase sales of our commercial products and/or continue the development of our pipeline candidates. Our Products are Subject to Governmental Regulation Our success is also impacted by factors outside of our control. Our current technology and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, both federal and state, and in foreign countries by various regulatory agencies. Specifically, our devices and bio-pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the FDA and state regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and biologics that move in interstate commerce and requires that such products receive clearance or pre-marketing approval based on evidence of safety and efficacy. The regulations of government health ministries in foreign countries are analogous to those of the FDA in both application and scope. In addition, any change in current regulatory interpretations by, or positions of, state regulatory officials where our products are used could materially and adversely affect our ability to sell products in those states. The 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS FDA will require us to obtain clearance or approval of new devices when used for treating specific wounds or marketed with specific wound healing claims, or for other products under development. We believe all our products for sale are legally marketed. As we expand and offer and/or develop additional products in the United States and in foreign countries, clearance or approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to introduction of any such products into the market may be required. We provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries for these products. Failure to obtain the required approvals would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Compliance with FDA and other governmental requirements imposes significant costs and expenses. Further, our failure to comply with these requirements could result in sanctions, limitations on promotional or other business activities, or other adverse effects on our business. Further, recent efforts to control healthcare costs could negatively affect demand for our products and services. Clinical Trials May Fail to Demonstrate the Safety or Efficacy of Our Product Candidates Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biotherapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of its product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the regulatory officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the U.S. regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, has the potential to materially harm our business, and may prevent it from raising necessary, additional financing that may be needed in the future. A Disruption in Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Operations and Profitability Our operations and future profitability are dependent, in large part, upon the ability to contract with healthcare providers on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers could refuse to contract with Cytomedix or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, or create difficulties in meeting our regulatory requirements. In some service areas, certain healthcare providers may have a significant market presence. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market services or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large healthcare provider group. Any disruption in provider networks could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Sales and Marketing Strategy for the AutoloGelTM System May Not Succeed Since January 2009, the sales and marketing strategy for AutoloGel focused on intensive clinician to clinician interaction with both prospective and existing customers, and the scientific explanation of AutoloGelTM’s mechanism of action. However, the primary goal of this effort was to help secure the additional data necessary to obtain Medicare coverage. In August 2012, CMS agreed to cover Autologel under its CED program. Cytomedix, therefore, intends to expand its sales efforts to address the Medicare beneficiary population. This will require selling to wound care clinics, individual physician practices, and other venues that have traditionally not been available to Cytomedix due to the previously standing non-coverage determination by CMS. There is no assurance that the Company’s efforts in this new sales channel will be successful or that it will yield sufficient sales and profits to realize the Company’s goals and conform to its plans. The Company is currently in discussions with several large companies regarding potential strategic partnerships regarding the broad commercialization of AutoloGel. The resources and expertise of such a partner would greatly facilitate the capture of market share within the wound car market, but would require that the economic benefits of such a broad penetration would be shared with said partner. There is no assurance that we will be successful in securing a partner. Furthermore, there is no assurance that if a partner is secured, that the partnership will 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS attain the market penetration contemplated or that the profits ultimately realized by Cytomedix will be sufficient to allow us to execute our business strategy. Our Efforts to Secure Medicare Reimbursement May Not be Successful The AutoloGel System is marketed to healthcare providers. Some of these providers, in turn, seek reimbursement from third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other private insurers. Under such healthcare systems, reimbursement is often a determining factor in predicting a product’s success, with some physicians and patients strongly favoring only those products for which they will be reimbursed. In March 2008, CMS reaffirmed its 2003 non-coverage determination for autologous platelet rich plasma, which would include AutoloGel. Since then we have gathered additional data and officially requested that CMS reconsider its non-coverage determination. In November 2011, CMS officially agreed to reconsider coverage for autologous blood therapies for the treatment of chronic wounds. On August 2, 2012, CMS issued a final National Coverage Determination (“NCD”) for autologous blood-derived products for chronic non-healing wounds. In the NCD, CMS approved coverage for autologous platelet rich plasma (“PRP”) in patients with diabetic, pressure and/or venous wounds via its Coverage with Evidence Development (“CED”) program. CED is a process through which CMS provides reimbursement coverage for items and services while generating additional clinical data to demonstrate their impact on health outcomes. We provide no assurance that we will ultimately be successful with this strategy and that CMS will determine that the evidence collected under CED is sufficient to provide unrestricted Medicare coverage for autologous PRP. If it is later determined that a new randomized, controlled trial is necessary, it could cost several millions of dollars and take multiple years to complete. We would almost certainly need to obtain additional, outside financing to fund such a trial. In any case, we may never be successful in securing unrestricted Medicare coverage for our products. The Successful Continued Commercialization of Our AutoloGel System and Angel and of Any Future Product Candidates Will Depend on Obtaining Reimbursement from Third-party Payors In the United States, the market for any pharmaceutical or biologic product is affected by the availability of reimbursement from third party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies. If we cannot demonstrate a favorable cost-benefit relationship, we may have difficulty obtaining adequate reimbursement for our products from these payors. Third-party payors may also deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement for any of our products if they determine that the product is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Should we seek to expand our commercialization internationally, we would be subject to the international regulations, where the pricing of prescription pharmaceutical products and services and the level of government reimbursement may be subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct one or more clinical trials that compare the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. Conducting one or more of these clinical trials would be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our products. Managing and reducing healthcare costs has become a major priority of federal and state governments in the United States. As a result of healthcare reform efforts, we might become subject to future regulations or other cost-control initiatives that materially restrict the price we can receive for our products. Third-party payors may also limit access and reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products generally or limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. We May Be Unable to Attract a Strategic Partner for the Further Development of Certain of Our Product Candidates Due to our limited resources, we have determined that the best vehicle to ultimately commercialize the various potential indications for ALDHbr, is through strategic partnerships, out-licensing, or other similar arrangements. There is no assurance, even if positive clinical data is achieved in the currently on-going trials, that we will be able to come to any such agreements or that we will even have the resources necessary to 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS seek such arrangements. Furthermore, even if such a strategic relationship regarding any of our products is reached, there is no assurance that development milestones, clinical data, or other such benchmarks will be achieved. Therefore, these products may never proceed toward commercialization or drive cash infusions for us, and we may ultimately not be able to monetize the patents, existing clinical data, and other intellectual property. The Success of Our Products Is Dependent on Acceptance by the Medical Community The commercial success of our products and processes will depend upon the medical community and patients accepting the therapies as safe and effective. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept the therapies as safe and effective, our ability to sell the products will be materially and adversely affected. While acceptance by the medical community may be fostered by broad evaluation via peer-reviewed literature, we may not have the resources to facilitate sufficient publication. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our future success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. We have retained a team of highly qualified officers and consultants, but cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. Our inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition of the Company. Our ability to maintain and provide additional services to our customers depends upon our ability to hire and retain business development and scientific and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in regenerative biological therapy technologies. Competition for such personnel is intense; we compete with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and healthcare companies. Our inability to hire additional qualified personnel may lead to higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. These increased costs may reduce our profit margins or make hiring new personnel impractical. Legislative and Administrative Action May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Company Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. We cannot predict what other legislation relating to our business or to the health care industry may be enacted, including legislation relating to third-party reimbursement, or what effect such legislation may have on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. We expect federal and state legislators to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and possibly adopt legislation affecting further changes in the health care delivery system. Such laws may contain provisions that may change the operating environment for hospitals and managed care organizations. Health care industry participants may react to such legislation by curtailing or deferring expenditures and initiatives, including those relating to our products. Future legislation could result in modifications to the existing public and private health care insurance systems that would have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement policies discussed above. With growing pressures on government budgets due to the current economic downturn, government efforts to contain or reduce health care spending are likely to gain increasing emphasis. Several members of the current presidential administration and Congress are espousing support for cost-containment measures that could have significant implications for healthcare therapies, including our current and future products. If enacted and implemented, such measures could result in decreased revenue from our products and decrease potential returns from our research and development initiatives. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully neutralize any lobbying efforts against any initiatives we may have with governmental agencies. We Could Be Affected by Malpractice or Product Liability Claims Providing medical care entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other claims. We do not control or direct the practice of medicine by physicians or health care providers who use the products and do not assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to physicians. There is no assurance that claims, suits or complaints relating to the use of our products and treatment administered by physicians will not be asserted against us in the future. The production, marketing and sale, and use of our products entails risks that product liability claims will be asserted against us. These risks cannot be eliminated, and we could be held liable for any damages that result from adverse reactions or 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS infectious disease transmission. Such liability could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. We currently maintain professional and product liability insurance coverage, but cannot give assurance that the coverage limits of this insurance would be adequate to protect against all potential claims. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain professional and product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our Products Have Existing Competition in the Marketplace In the market for biotechnology products, we face competition from pharmaceutical companies, biopharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, and other competitors. Other companies have developed or are developing products that may be in direct competition with our current product line. Biotechnology development projects are characterized by intense competition. Thus, we cannot assure that we will be the first to the market with any newly developed products or that we will successfully be able to market these products. If we are not able to participate and compete in the regenerative biological therapy market, our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products. Recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, may be the basis for developments that will compete with our products. If Our Sole Clinical Manufacturing Facility is Damaged or Destroyed, Our Business and Prospects Would be Negatively Affected We have a manufacturing facility located in Durham, North Carolina at which we produce product candidates for our clinical trials for our Aldagen product candidates. If this facility or the equipment in it is significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity or replace it at all. In the event of a temporary or protracted loss of this facility or equipment, we might not be able to transfer manufacturing to a third party. Even if we could transfer manufacturing to a third party, the shift would likely be expensive and time-consuming, particularly since the new facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements and we would need FDA approval before selling any products manufactured at that facility. Such an event could delay our clinical trials or, if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, reduce our product sales. Development of Our Aldagen Product Candidates is Subject to Uncertainty Because Each is Derived from Human Bone Marrow, a Source Material That is Inherently Variable The number of ALDHbr cells and the composition of the ALDHbr cell population from bone marrow vary from patient to patient. Such variability in composition could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our Aldagen product candidates derived from a patient’s bone marrow or to establish and meet acceptable specifications for release of the product candidate for treatment of a particular patient. As a consequence, the development and regulatory approval process for these product candidates could be delayed or may never be completed. We Have Only Limited Experience Manufacturing Our Aldagen Product Candidates. We May Not Be Able to Manufacture Our Aldagen Product Candidates in Compliance With Evolving Regulatory Standards or in Quantities Sufficient for Commercial Sale Components of therapeutic products approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, as required by the FDA. Manufacturers of cell-based product candidates such as our Aldagen product candidates also must comply with the FDA’s current good tissue practices, or cGTP. In addition, we may be required to modify our manufacturing process from time to time for our product candidates in response to FDA requests. Manufacture of live cellular-based products is complex and subjects us to significant regulatory burdens that may change over time. We may encounter difficulties in the production of our Aldagen product candidates due to our limited manufacturing capabilities. We have only limited manufacturing experience with our Aldagen product candidates, and we currently do not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to support commercialization of any of our Aldagen product candidates. These difficulties could reduce sales of our Aldagen products, if they are approved for marketing, increase our costs or cause production delays, any of which could damage our reputation and hurt our profitability. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we successfully obtain marketing approval for any Aldagen product candidates, we may not be able to efficiently produce sufficient quantities of these products to meet potential commercial demand. We expect that we would need to significantly expand our manufacturing capabilities to meet potential demand for these products. Such expansion would require additional regulatory approvals. We may also encounter difficulties in the commercial-scale manufacture of all of our product candidates. We are currently developing new processes and are in discussions with other companies to develop new instruments to improve our manufacturing efficiency. Improving the speed and efficiency of our manufacturing process and the cell sorters and other instruments we use is a key element of our business plan. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop process enhancements on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop these improvements, we could face significantly higher capital expenditures than we anticipate, increased facility and personnel costs and other increased operating expenses. We may need to demonstrate that our product candidates manufactured using any new processes or instruments are comparable to our product candidates used in clinical trials. Depending on the type and degree of differences, we may be required to conduct additional studies or clinical trials to demonstrate comparability. In addition, some changes in our manufacturing processes or procedures, including a change in the location where a product candidate is manufactured, generally require prior FDA or foreign regulatory authority review and approval for determining our compliance with cGMP and cGTP. We may need to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials to support approval of any such changes. Furthermore, this review process could be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the commercialization of Aldagen our product candidates. We May Use Third-party Collaborators to Help us Develop or Commercialize Our Product Candidates, and Our Ability to Commercialize Such Candidates May be Impaired or Delayed if Collaborations are Unsuccessful We may in the future selectively pursue strategic collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates and for the international development and commercialization of our product candidates. For example, we anticipate that we will need to enter into a collaboration agreement with a third party to conduct and fund a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of ALD-401 and we may enter into collaboration agreements with third parties in the case of other Aldagen product candidates. In addition, we may not be able to commercialize ALD-201 successfully without entering into an arrangement with a third party to provide an approved method of administration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable collaborators or negotiate collaboration agreements on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In any future third-party collaboration, we would be dependent upon the success of the collaborators in performing their responsibilities and their continued cooperation. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to performing their responsibilities under our agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The development and commercialization of our product candidates will be delayed if collaborators fail to conduct their responsibilities in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or if they breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us. Disputes with our collaborators could also result in product development delays, decreased revenues and litigation expenses. Ethical and Other Concerns Surrounding the Use of Stem Cell-based Therapy May Negatively Affect Public Perception of Us or Our Product Candidates, thereby Reducing Potential Demand for Our Products The commercial success of our product candidates, which are based on adult stem cells, will depend in part on general public acceptance of the use of stem cell-based therapy for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. The use of embryonic stem cells and fetal tissue for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of substantial national and international debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. We do not use embryonic stem cells or fetal tissue in any of our product candidates, but the public may not be able to, or may fail to, differentiate our use of adult stem cells from the use by others of embryonic stem cells or fetal tissue. This could result in a negative perception of our company or our product candidates. Some people have raised ethical concerns about the use of donated human tissue in a commercial setting, which could also negatively affect the perception of our product candidates and inhibit their commercialization in a successful manner. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS If Our Patent Position Does Not Adequately Protect Our Product Candidates or Any Future Products, Others Could Compete Against Us More Directly, Which Would Harm Our Business Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates. Issued patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or a third party may circumvent any such issued patents. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has been the subject of much litigation and recent court decisions introduce uncertainty in the strength of patents owned by biotechnology companies. The legal systems of some foreign countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. The claims of the issued patents that are licensed to us, and the claims of any patents which may issue in the future and be owned by or licensed to us, may not confer on us significant commercial protection against competing products. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. For instance, the two issued U.S. patents relating to our product candidates are limited to a particular chemistry in the manufacturing process. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. To the extent a competitor can develop similar products using a different chemistry, these patents will not prevent others from directly competing with us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of our product candidates, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. For instance, one of our patents relating to our technology will expire in 2019. To the extent our product candidates based on that technology are not commercialized significantly ahead of this date, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such product candidates, those product candidates would not be protected by patents beyond 2019 and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which may provide less protection of our competitive position. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we are prosecuting patents, have been issued patents, or have licensed patents or patent applications relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. If We Are Unable to Protect the Confidentiality of Our Proprietary Information and Know-how, Our Competitive Position Would be Impaired A significant amount of our technology, especially regarding manufacturing processes, is unpatented and is maintained by us as trade secrets. The background technologies used in the development of our product candidates are known in the scientific community, and it is possible to duplicate the methods we use to create our product candidates. In an effort to protect these trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. A breach of confidentiality could affect our competitive position. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS If We Infringe or Are Alleged to Infringe Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties, Our Business Could be Harmed Our research, development and commercialization activities, including any product candidates resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties and to which we do not hold licenses or other rights. There may be applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. We have not conducted an exhaustive search or analysis of third-party patent rights to determine whether our research, development or commercialization activities, including any product candidates resulting from these activities, may infringe or be alleged to infringe any third-party patent rights. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also affect our potential collaborators to the extent we have any collaborations then in place, which would also affect the success of the collaboration and therefore us. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our product candidates and technology. Uncertainties Resulting from the Initiation and Continuation of Patent Litigation or Other Proceedings Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Compete in the Marketplace If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or do not otherwise produce positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including the following: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs that we expect to be promising; • the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; • our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner or at all; 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS • we might have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate; • we may be subject to a more complex regulatory process, since stem cell-based therapies are relatively new and regulatory agencies have less experience with them than with traditional pharmaceutical products; • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; and • our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators to halt or terminate the trials. Any Product for Which We Obtain Marketing Approval Will be Subject to Extensive Ongoing Regulatory Requirements, and We May Be Subject to Penalties if We Fail to Comply with Regulatory Requirements or if We Experience Unanticipated Problems with Our Products, When and if Any of Them Are Approved Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP and cGTP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements relating to product labeling, advertising and promotion, and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to additional limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval. In addition, approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: • restrictions on such products’ manufacturing processes; • restrictions on the marketing of a product; • restrictions on product distribution; • requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials; • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • recall of products; • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizure; • injunctions; or • imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Failure to Obtain Regulatory Approval in International Jurisdictions Would Prevent Us from Marketing Products Abroad We may in the future seek to market some of our product candidates outside the United States. In order to market our product candidates in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we must submit clinical data concerning our product candidates and obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval from foreign regulators may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product candidate be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases this may include approval of the price we intend to charge for our product, if approved. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, or at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively affect the regulatory process in other countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize any products in any market and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. Our Business Involves the Use of Hazardous Materials That Could Expose Us to Environmental and Other Liability Our manufacturing facility located in Durham, North Carolina is subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various radioactive compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to our employees and third parties from hazardous materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances other than limited clean-up expense coverage for environmental contamination due to an otherwise insured peril, such as fire. The Sale of Our Common Stock to Lincoln Park May Cause Substantial Dilution to Our Existing Stockholders and the Sale of the Shares of Common Stock Acquired by Lincoln Park Could Cause the Price of Our Common Stock to Decline In February 2013, we entered into a purchase agreement with Lincoln Park Capital LLC (“LPC”) where by we could, but are not required to, sell shares of our Common stock to LPC over 30 month period up to a maximum aggregate amount of $15 million (the “Purchase Agreement”). The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by LPC is dependent upon the number of shares we elect to sell to LPC under the Purchase Agreements. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock by LPC may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. After it has acquired shares under the Purchase Agreements, LPC may sell all, some or none of those shares. Sales to LPC by us pursuant to the Purchase Agreements may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our Common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common stock by LPC, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to LPC and the Purchase Agreements may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect Current and Future Stockholders The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially include, among others: • our ability or inability to execute our business plan; • the dilutive effect or perceived dilutive effect of additional equity financings; • investor perception of our company and of the industry; • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States or overseas; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; or • general economic, political and market conditions. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility could be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. We May Likely Issue Additional Equity or Debt Securities Which May Materially and Adversely Affect the Price of Our Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used, and will likely continue to use, our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock to fund working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If additional equity and/or equity-linked securities are issued, particularly during times when our common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. There is a Limited Public Trading Market for Our Common Stock The average daily trading volume in our common stock has historically been relatively low. If low trading volume is persistent, it could be difficult to sell a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. Shareholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of common stock could lower the prevailing market price of our common stock. This would limit or perhaps prevent our ability to raise capital through the sale of securities. Additionally, we have significant numbers of outstanding warrants and options that, if exercised and sold, could put additional downward pressure on the common stock price. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and it may adversely affect the price of our common stock. These broad market fluctuations may reduce the demand for our stock and therefore adversely affect the price of our securities, regardless of operating performance. We are Subject to Anti-Takeover Provisions and Laws Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our common stock price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS 