ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Related to Our BusinessAdverse U.S. and global economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations.Our business and operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by domestic and global economic conditions. Economic recession, international financial market uncertainty, fluctuations in fuel and energy prices, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, consumer consumption and global trade flows are some of the factors which affect demand for transportation services.The transportation industry is cyclical. Our operating results are subject to changing economic conditions. Uncertain economic conditions, including those currently faced by the U.S. and global economies, can limit or delay our ability to increase rates in spite of increased rates from our transportation providers. In addition, weak economic conditions and credit and financial market disruptions could cause many of our existing and potential customers to reduce their use of, and ability to pay for, our services. A weakening of the U.S. or global economy could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and results of operations.Changes in transportation costs or revenues, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our logistics segment competes primarily against other domestic asset-based and non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our intermodal segment competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars and containerized intermodal rail services offered by railroads and other intermodal service providers. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, that provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to better withstand an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. In addition, customers are more frequently soliciting competitive bids for transportation services. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. Downward pressure on pricing could adversely affect the yields of our transportation services.Rate increases, particularly by our railroad, motor transportation and ocean carrier suppliers, may also have an adverse financial impact if we are unable to pass these costs onto our customers. There could be delays in our ability to pass on rate increases to our customers. Transportation rate increases may also slow overall demand for transportation services and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations.We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business. If we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues.We are dependent upon the availability of rail, truck and ocean transportation services and transportation equipment such as chassis and containers provided by independent third parties, including Union Pacific as described below to supplement our controlled equipment capacity. The industry has experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping seasons. Steamship lines and airfreight providers have experienced limited space and international container shortages in the past. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, we would not be able to meet our customers’ needs for transportation and logistics services, which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.13Table of ContentsNetwork changes, lane closures, carrier consolidation and other reductions or deterioration in rail services could increase costs, decrease demand for our intermodal services and adversely affect our operating results.Most of the intermodal transportation services we provide depend on the major railroads in the United States and Mexico which in many markets is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. As a result, any reduction, suspension or elimination of rail service to a particular market may limit our ability to serve some of our customers. Furthermore, reductions in service by the railroads are likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and potentially reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our intermodal product. Increases in the cost of rail service reduce some of the advantages of intermodal transportation compared to truck and other transportation modes which may reduce demand for our intermodal services. Rail consolidations in the past have caused service disruptions and would further reduce service choices and bargaining power for rail customers. Further consolidation among railroads might adversely affect intermodal transportation and our results of operations.From time to time, our railroad suppliers have experienced train resource shortages, operating inefficiencies and high demand for rail transportation that resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion and decreased equipment velocity, all of which increase our costs, decrease equipment capacity, impact customer service and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we are reliant on rail carriers that experience poor service performance, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected.Union Pacific is the primary source for the containers and chassis used in our intermodal operations and any failure by Union Pacific to provide us with containers and chassis when required would adversely affect our revenues and ability to service our customers.Union Pacific is the primary supplier and servicer of the 53-ft containers used in our business as well as of the chassis used on the Union Pacific network. We have the ability under these arrangements with Union Pacific to increase or decrease our equipment fleet periodically. The refusal or failure of Union Pacific to provide us with additional containers and chassis when required, or its failure to adequately and timely service the containers or chassis we use, would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.The cross-border agreement with Union Pacific has reduced our revenues and may adversely affect our operating income over time.In October 2012, we entered into a multi-year agreement with Union Pacific to arrange, manage and provide wholesale intermodal services for automotive parts shipments between the United States and Mexico. This agreement changed the nature of our participation in this business. Previously, we contracted for rail transportation from multiple rail carriers and combined that with our equipment and network logistics management services to intermediaries. Under this agreement, effective January 1, 2013, we no longer collect and pass through the rail transportation costs to automotive parts intermediaries servicing this US-Mexico business, but act as Union Pacific's manager for cross-border shipments and provide rail container and chassis management services for Union Pacific in Mexico. We are compensated on a fee basis for such services and the use of our equipment.The implementation of this agreement on January 1, 2013, resulted in a significant reduction in our gross revenue throughout 2013 that we historically earned from the US-Mexico wholesale intermodal automotive business and a corresponding reduction in the cost of purchased transportation and services. However, our margin contribution from this business in 2013 remained materially consistent with its historical contribution level. The margin contribution from this business in 2013 was, and in future years will be, primarily dependent on (1) the volume of US-Mexico automotive parts shipments via the network that we manage under the agreement; (2) the volume of Pacer equipment used via the network that we manage versus rail or other equipment; and (3) the amount of selling, general and administrative costs incurred to run this business. Over the remaining term of the agreement, our revenue and margin for the services and equipment provided under the agreement decline absent growth in our retail direct US-Mexico business and will also continue to be dependent on the previously mentioned factors. If there are unfavorable changes in any of the aforementioned factors, our revenues, as well as our results of operations and cash flows, could be adversely affected. 14Table of ContentsOur business may be affected by any adverse change to relationships with railroad service providers upon the expiration or renewal of such contracts.Our rail contracts, which have varied expiration dates, contain specific contract rates and other negotiated provisions that enable us to provide competitive transportation rates and services to our customers. Our loss of one or more of these rail contracts, or failure to enter into renewal or replacement contracts with comparably favorable terms upon expiration of the current contracts could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. While we expect to be able to continue to obtain competitive terms and conditions from our railroad vendors, no assurance can be given that such terms and conditions will be comparable to those in our current rail contracts.We are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines as a result of economic cycles.Across all lines of business, including US domestic retail intermodal, US-Mexico retail intermodal and US-Mexico wholesale intermodal, approximately 21% of our revenues in 2013, 40% in 2012 and 33% in 2011 were from customers in the automotive industry. If the business of North American automobile manufacturers and suppliers deteriorates, our revenues, as well as our results of operations and cash flows, would be adversely affected.Our transportation suppliers could provide preferences to their own internal competing operations and to others, which would decrease our profitability.Our operations compete in some cases with the intermodal service and equipment offerings of our rail transportation providers as well as with other transportation service providers. For example, CSX and Union Pacific, two of our primary rail transportation providers, offer transcontinental and other long-haul intermodal transportation services and equipment capacity that compete with our intermodal operations. If our rail transportation providers offer preferences and container capacity to their internal service offerings or to other customers, these preferences, such as lower rates, more access to capacity or faster terminal services, could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers.Difficulty attracting and retaining independent contractors and third-party drayage capacity could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.We rely on the services of independent contractors and third party motor carriers to provide drayage services. We also rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although we believe our relationships with our independent contractors are strong, contracts with independent contractors are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party and we may have difficulty replacing our independent contractors with equally qualified service providers. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of contractors and drivers is limited and shortages of independent trucking operators have occurred from time to time. Therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies for such services can require us to incur additional advertising and recruiting costs and to increase the rates and charges payable to contractors and drivers for their services. If we are unable to attract or retain independent contractors as needed or are required to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected.Our international operations subject us to various operational and financial risks which could adversely affect our business.The services we provide outside of the United States subject us to risks resulting from changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, tax policies, difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents, different liability standards, required compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, and intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our rights in our intellectual property, including but not limited to, our proprietary information systems, to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. As we expand our business in foreign countries, we will also be exposed to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls. 15Table of ContentsWork stoppages, weather related issues or other disruptions beyond our transportation providers’ control could adversely affect our operating results.Transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers. Hurricanes, flooding and other severe weather conditions can cause a disruption in service that can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. In addition, our business can be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees, seaport strikes and labor renegotiations, foreign labor market disruptions or by a work stoppage at railroads or local trucking companies servicing rail terminals, including work disruptions involving owner operators under contract with our local trucking operations. These network disruptions result in terminal embargoes, disruption to equipment and freight flows, depressed volumes and revenues, increased costs and other negative effects on our operations and financial results particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass. Other disruptions, such as those due to an act of terrorism or war, can adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our intermodal and logistics business.Rapid changes in fuel costs and disconnects between customer and carrier fuel cost recovery methodologies could impact our profitability.Fuel costs can be volatile and rapid changes in fuel costs and variations in fuel surcharge recovery methodologies that do not allow us to fully recover fuel-related costs from customers could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. Timing differences between fuel surcharges incurred and fuel surcharges billed to our customers as well as differences between formulas used to calculate fuel surcharges payable to carriers and contractors and receivable from customers can result in a positive or negative impact. As of December 31, 2013, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.Insurance costs and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings.Our business is exposed to various casualty and liability risks, including claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss/damage and workers’ compensation. We carry insurance to minimize this exposure. Insurance costs have varied over the past five years, reflecting the level of our operations, the insurance environment for our industry, our claim experience and our self-retained (deductible) levels.We are also responsible for claim expenses within our self-retained (deductible) levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We maintain insurance to cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels with insurance companies that we consider financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits and adversely impact our operating results. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected.Revenues and profitability could be significantly impacted by the loss of major customers.In 2013, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and prospects.We operate in a regulated industry and failure to comply or increased costs of compliance with existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Our trucking and intermodal equipment operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state, local and foreign governmental agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, handling of hazardous materials, safety ratings, insurance requirements, vehicle weight and size and emissions restrictions. Our international freight forwarding operations as well as some of our steamship line customers are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal and state authorities. We are also periodically audited by the DOT and other state and federal authorities to ensure that we are in compliance with safety, required licenses, hours-of-service, clean truck regulations and other rules and regulations.16Table of ContentsNew governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, could affect the transportation industry in general or us in particular. Any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may influence demand for our services or require us to make changes to our operating practices or services provided to our customers and may result in additional costs which, if we are unable to pass through to our customers, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Furthermore, failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Similarly, failure of our motor carrier operations to maintain a "satisfactory" safety rating and to maintain acceptable safety scores could reduce demand for our services and impair our ability to continue to service a significant percentage of our intermodal shipments through our own motor carrier operations, which we believe increases the reliability and profitability of our transportation services. Such compliance failures would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.The borrowing base formula and other terms under our 2010 Credit Agreement could limit the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder and may limit our business and financing activities and our flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions.Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated December 30, 2010, as amended by the First Amendment dated July 6, 2012 (as so amended, the "2010 Credit Agreement") provides for a $125 million revolving credit facility, subject to increase to $175 million if certain conditions are met. The amount of borrowings available to us is determined through a detailed borrowing base formula. It is based on 85% of our eligible accounts receivable, certain equipment and an availability reserve, each defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement. As a result, changes in the amount of our eligible account receivables and equipment or the value thereof could limit the amount of borrowings available to us under the facility and thus our liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, $60.0 million was available under the 2010 Credit Agreement pursuant to the borrowing base formula, net of $10.9 million of outstanding letters of credit.If outstanding borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit) exceed the available borrowing base at any time, we must immediately repay any borrowings in excess of the borrowing base (or in some cases cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit). In such event we may not have available other sources of liquidity to make such payment which would result in an event of default under the 2010 Credit Agreement.The borrowing capacity under our credit facility could also be reduced if either of the two lending banks under our 2010 Credit Agreement were to fail or otherwise fail to provide us funds as required under the 2010 Credit Agreement. In such an event, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our operations or capital needs, which may not be available on terms as favorable as those in the 2010 Credit Agreement.The 2010 Credit Agreement includes other operating and financial restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or to engage in other business activities. The 2010 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default and is secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future tangible and intangible assets, intercompany debt, stock or other equity interests owned by us, our domestic subsidiaries and a portion of the stock or other equity interests of certain of our foreign subsidiaries.A breach of any of the representations, restrictions or covenants, could result in a default. A default under the 2010 Credit Agreement (which would trigger a cross-default under some of our equipment leases) could, depending on actions taken by our lenders and lessors, have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. If we are in default under the 2010 Credit Agreement and/or our other financing arrangements and our obligations thereunder were declared immediately due and payable, we would not have sufficient cash flow from operations or other available sources of liquidity to repay such obligations.See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 2 to the notes of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the terms of the 2010 Credit Agreement.17Table of ContentsA determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and adversely affect our operating results.Governmental authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under various laws and regulations, increase exposure to liabilities and increase costs. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry and materially adversely affect our operating results.Failure to develop, protect, integrate, upgrade or replace our information technology systems or events beyond our control may negatively impact our ability to service our customers or incur costs beyond our expectations.Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the information technologies that support our current services and any new services that we may introduce. Failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, compromised systems due to cyber-attack or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems, including Internet disruptions, could significantly disrupt our operations, preventing customer orders from being placed or processed. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future freight volumes may decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers.Furthermore, we face risks in implementing new systems to meet customer requirements, reduce costs or upgrade our service offerings. If replacement systems do not operate as anticipated or contain unforeseen problems, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also experience operational difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results.Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers and vendors to access our information technology systems. This could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services.Risks Related to the Acquisition of Pacer by XPOThe pendency of the merger with XPO could materially adversely affect our future business and operations or result in a loss of our employees.In connection with the pending merger with XPO, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of the merger, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common shares, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with XPO and Pacer following completion of the merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on our business activities.The merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, and restricts us from taking certain actions until the merger is completed. These restrictions may prevent us from making desirable expenditures, including with regard to capital projects, pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. 18Table of ContentsFailure to complete the merger could negatively affect the stock price of Pacer and its future businesses and financial results.If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: •under the merger agreement, Pacer may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay XPO a termination fee of $12.4 million or XPO’s expenses of up to $5 million; •Pacer will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; •under the merger agreement, Pacer is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the merger which may prevent Pacer from making desirable expenditures, including with regard to capital projects, pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to its business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement; and •matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by Pacer management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Pacer as an independent company. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from our customers and employees and from the financial markets, causing our stock price to be adversely affected. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to attempt to force us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement.The value of the per share stock consideration payable to our shareholders in the merger is subject to changes based on fluctuations in the value of XPO common stock and shareholders may receive per share stock consideration with a value that is more or less than $3.00 per share in certain circumstances.The market value of XPO common stock will fluctuate during the period before the date of the Special Meeting, during the ten trading day period that the exchange ratio will be based upon and the time between the effective date of the merger and the time shareholders receive the merger consideration in the form of XPO common stock. XPO’s trading price on the NYSE has fluctuated in the past. In the merger, each share of Pacer issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the merger (other than shares owned by Pacer’s subsidiaries, XPO, Merger Sub or any of their subsidiaries) will be converted into the right to receive a combination of: •$6.00 in cash; and •a fraction of a share of XPO common stock equal to $3.00 divided by the XPO reference stock price, with such fraction rounded to the nearest 1/10,000; provided that, if the XPO reference stock price is less than or equal to $23.12, then the exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.1298 of a share of XPO common stock, and if the XPO reference stock price is greater than or equal to $32.94 per share, then the exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.0911 of a share of XPO common stock. The exchange ratio is subject to a collar and may fluctuate depending on the XPO reference stock price, which is measured during the ten-day period prior to the closing of the merger. If the XPO reference stock price is between $23.12 and $32.94, then the number of shares of XPO common stock exchangeable for each share of our common stock will be determined by dividing $3.00 by XPO reference stock price. Within the price range prescribed by the collar, the exchange ratio "floats" so as to ensure that the value of XPO common stock to be received as a portion of the merger consideration for each share of XPO common stock will be $3.00, resulting in total consideration of $9.00. However, if the XPO reference stock price is less than or equal to $23.12, the exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.1298 shares of XPO common stock for each share of XPO common stock. If the XPO reference stock price is greater than or equal to $32.94, the exchange ratio will be 0.0911 shares of XPO common stock for each share of our common stock. Accordingly, if the XPO reference stock price is less than the low end of the collar, then the value of the per share stock consideration may be less than $3.00, which would result in total consideration of less than $9.00. Conversely, if XPO reference stock price is greater than the high end of the collar, then per share stock consideration may be greater than $3.00, which would result in total consideration of more than $9.00. 19Table of ContentsAt the time that our shareholders cast their votes regarding approval of the merger agreement, they will not know the actual market value of the shares of XPO common stock that they will receive when the merger is finally completed. The actual market value of the shares of XPO common stock, when received by our shareholders, will depend on the market value of those shares on that date. This market value may be less than the value of the shares of XPO common stock on the date of the merger agreement and on the date that our shareholders vote on the merger agreement and may be less than the XPO reference stock price. Fluctuations in the market value of shares of XPO common stock may be caused by changes in the businesses, operations, results and prospects of both XPO and Pacer, market expectations of the likelihood that the merger will be completed and the timing of the completion, general market and economic conditions or other factors. The merger is subject to various closing conditions, and any delay in completing the merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected and delay the payment of the merger consideration to Pacer shareholders.The merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions beyond Pacer’s and XPO’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the transaction. These conditions include, among others, (1) the approval of the merger by shareholders owning a majority of Pacer common stock entitled to vote at the Special Meeting, (2) the approval of the listing of the XPO common stock on the NYSE and (3) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the consummation of the merger. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. Any delay in completing the merger could cause the combined company not to realize, or delay the realization of, some or all of the benefits that the companies expect to achieve from the transaction. In such context, the date of which our shareholders will receive the merger consideration is also uncertain. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have interests in the merger that may differ from, or be in addition to, the interests of our stockholders.Our executive officers negotiated the terms of the merger agreement with their counterparts at XPO, and our board of directors unanimously has determined that the merger is advisable, substantively and procedurally fair to and in the best interests of Pacer and our shareholders. Therefore, our board of directors has authorized, approved and adopted the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. However, Pacer’s executive officers and directors may have financial interests in the merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of Pacer shareholders. These interests include the rights to accelerated vesting and settlement of equity awards, payments in connection with the termination of employment, equity award grants and the right to indemnification and insurance coverage following the effective time of the merger. For a detailed discussion of the interests that Pacer’s directors and executive officers may have in the merger, see "Proposal 1: The Merger-Interests of Pacer’s Directors and Executive Officers in the Merger" in the Pacer Proxy Statement for the Special Meeting. The merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential acquirer of Pacer from seeking to acquire Pacer or could result in a competing proposal being offered at a lower price than it might otherwise be.The merger agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than XPO. These provisions include the general prohibition on Pacer soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction from a third party, and the requirement that we pay XPO a termination fee of $12.4 million if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances, including in the event that we terminate the merger agreement in response to an acquisition proposal from a third party that our Board of Directors determines constitutes a superior offer, or up to $5.0 million of XPO’s expenses if the merger agreement is terminated in other specified circumstances. In addition, even if our board of directors receives a superior offer, it must, prior to accepting any offer from a competing bidder, provide XPO with the opportunity to amend the merger agreement such that the third-party offer no longer constitutes a superior offer. The foregoing may discourage a third party that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Pacer from considering or proposing an acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share value than the current proposed merger consideration. Furthermore, the termination fee and the XPO expense reimbursement provisions may result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Pacer than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. 20Table of ContentsThe failure to successfully combine the businesses of XPO and Pacer in the expected time frame may adversely affect XPO’s future results, which may adversely affect the value of the shares of XPO common stock that our shareholders would receive in the merger.The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of XPO to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of XPO and Pacer. To realize these anticipated benefits, XPO’s and Pacer’s businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. XPO and Pacer, including their respective subsidiaries, have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in their standards, controls, procedures and policies. The combined company’s results of operations also could be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company’s operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. Any or all of those occurrences could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees after the merger or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of XPO and Pacer. XPO Logistics incurred substantial operating losses and net losses in its 2012 fiscal year and in the nine month period ended September 30, 2013 and it may continue to incur losses in the future.XPO incurred substantial losses in its 2012 fiscal year and in the nine month period ended September 30, 2013 and may continue to incur substantial losses in the future. The ability of XPO to generate significant revenues and operate profitably in the future will depend on many factors including, among other factors, the successful implementation of its acquisition and greenfield growth strategies, including the integration of Pacer into its business and new information technology systems. For additional information regarding the business, operations and growth strategies of XPO, see XPO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2013 and any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed by XPO with the SEC.A different set of factors and conditions affect shares of XPO common stock and could have a negative impact on the share price.Upon completion of the merger, Pacer shareholders will become stockholders in XPO. The businesses of XPO and the other companies it has acquired and may acquire in the future are different in many respects from those of Pacer. There is a risk that various factors, conditions and developments which would not affect Pacer’s business or the market price of Pacer’s common stock could negatively affect XPO’s business (both before and after the consummation of the merger) and the market price of XPO’s common stock. Some of the key factors that might affect XPO and the prices at which shares of XPO common stock may trade from time to time are set forth in XPO’s filings with the SEC. For additional information regarding the business and operations of XPO and the risks it faces, see the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in XPO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2013 and in any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed by XPO with the SEC.Pending litigation against Pacer and XPO could result in an injunction preventing completion of the merger, the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and/or may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations following the merger.In connection with the merger, purported shareholders of Pacer have filed several putative shareholders class action lawsuits against Pacer, our board of directors, XPO and Merger Sub in Tennessee. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek injunctive relief preventing the consummation of the merger. If a final settlement is not reached, or if a dismissal is not obtained, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to XPO and Pacer, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. Additional lawsuits may be filed against XPO and/or Pacer related to the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Please see the section entitled "Legal Proceedings" for more information.21Table of ContentsOur shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger and will exercise less influence over management.Our shareholders currently have the right to vote in the election of our board of directors and other matters affecting Pacer. When the merger occurs, each Pacer shareholder that receives shares of XPO common stock will become a stockholder of XPO with a percentage ownership of the combined organization that is much smaller than such shareholder’s percentage ownership of Pacer. Because of this, our shareholders will have less influence on the management and policies of XPO than they have now on the management and policies of Pacer. Shares of XPO common stock to be received by our shareholders as a result of the merger will have different rights from our common stock.Following completion of the merger, our shareholders will no longer hold Pacer shares, but will instead be stockholders of XPO. There are important differences between the rights of Pacer shareholders and the rights of XPO shareholders. See the section entitled "Comparison of Rights of Pacer Shareholders and XPO Stockholders" in the Pacer Proxy Statement for a discussion of the different rights associated with Pacer common stock and XPO common stock. If the merger agreement is terminated, under certain circumstances, Pacer may be obligated to reimburse XPO for costs incurred related to the merger or pay a termination fee to XPO. These costs could require Pacer to seek loans or use Pacer’s available cash that would have otherwise been available for operations, dividends or other general corporate purposes. In certain circumstances, we would be responsible for reimbursing XPO for up to $5 million in expenses related to the transaction or may be obligated to pay a termination fee to XPO of $12.4 million. If the merger agreement is terminated, the expense reimbursement or termination fee required to be paid, if any, by us under the merger agreement may require us to seek loans or borrow amounts to enable it to pay these amounts to XPO. In either case, payment of these amounts would reduce the cash Pacer has available for operations, dividends or other general corporate purposes. See the section entitled "The Merger Agreement-Termination Fee and XPO Expenses" in the Pacer Proxy Statement for additional details.XPO and Pacer may not realize the benefits of combining their operations because of integration difficulties and other challenges.The success of the acquisition of Pacer by XPO will depend, in part, on XPO’s ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating Pacer’s business with XPO’s businesses. The combined company’s success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the successful integration of the operations of Pacer into XPO’s business. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating our operations into XPO’s include, among others:•XPO’s limited experience managing an intermodal business, including cross-border aspects thereof, particularly in Mexico;•XPO’s failure to implement its business plan for the combined business;•unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems;•difficulty in retaining key customers and significant customer contracts, certain of which require customer consent to the acquisition;•challenges in retaining key independent contractors and key employees;•delays in consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures;•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns;•the impact on the combined company’s internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.Significant one-time costs are expected to be incurred in connection with the acquisition and the related integration of the Pacer business. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. 22Table of ContentsXPO and Pacer may not accomplish this integration smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. The diversion of the attention of management from its current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent the combined company from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition and could adversely affect the combined company’s business. To the extent that our shareholders retain the shares of XPO common stock issued in the merger, the value of these shares may be adversely affected by any difficulties or delays related to integrating Pacer and XPO. Risks Related to Our Common StockVolatility in our revenues and expenses and resultant operating results may result in stock price fluctuations.We are subject to a variety of events, such as economic conditions, customers’ business cycles, rate changes, rail network changes, severe network changes, severe weather and other rail service disruptions, strikes, interest rate and fuel cost fluctuations, over which we have little or no control. These factors may unexpectedly affect one or more periods’ operating results. Any unexpected reduction in revenues or operating income for a particular period could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price or our common stock may fall significantly.Various mechanisms are in place to discourage takeover attempts or change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable.Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:•Authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt;•A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors;•Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;•Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws;•Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders;•Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;•Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and•Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met.As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.