Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in shares of our common stock or if you otherwise receive ownership of our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including those described below. We urge you to carefully consider these risk factors together with all of the other information included in this filing, the information incorporated in this filing, and other risks and uncertainties identified in Zapata’s other public reports, filings made with the SEC, press releases and public statements made by authorized officers of Zapata before you decide to purchase or make an investment decision regarding our common stock. The market liquidity for our common stock is relatively low and may make it difficult to purchase or sell our stock. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had 19,149,556 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our stock during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2005 was approximately 22,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock could affect a stockholder’s ability to sell at a price satisfactory to that stockholder. 14 Table of Contents We may not find a buyer for our ownership interest in Omega Protein. Our Board of Directors has authorized its management to seek a buyer for our 58% interest in Omega Protein. As of the date of this report, no offers have been received and no agreements or understandings have been entered into by the Company relative to Omega Protein. There can be no assurance, that a satisfactory transaction involving Omega Protein will emerge, the timing of any such transaction, if any, or whether the transaction will ultimately enhance Zapata stockholder value or how that value will be realized. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell our interest in Omega for an amount in excess of our carrying value. Should we sell our interest in Omega for an amount less than the carrying value at that time, we would incur a transaction loss, net of tax consequences. Our portfolio of investments may cause the Company to be classified as an Investment Company. Since a significant portion of our assets consist of securities, including equity and other interests in operating companies, we could become subject to the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). The Investment Company Act requires registration of, and imposes substantial restrictions on, certain companies that engage, or propose to engage, primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities, or that fail certain statistical tests concerning a company’s asset composition and sources of income. We intend to actively participate in the management of our operating companies, consistent with applicable laws, contractual arrangements and other requirements. Accordingly, we believe that we are primarily engaged in a business other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Further, we endeavor to ensure that our holdings of investment securities constitute less than 40% of our total assets (excluding Government securities and cash) on an unconsolidated basis. We will monitor and attempt to adjust the nature of our interests in and involvement with operating companies in order to avoid subjecting the Company to the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act. There can be no assurance, however, that our business activities will not ultimately subject the Company to the Investment Company Act. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to regulations that would have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Since we already meet the ownership criteria of the personal holding company rules, we may have to pay a punitive tax if Zapata Corporate generates passive income in excess of operating expenses. Section 541 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), subjects a corporation, which is a “personal holding company” as defined in the IRC, to a 15% penalty tax on “undistributed personal holding company income” in addition to the corporation’s normal income tax. Generally, undistributed personal holding company income is based on taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, most notably a reduction for Federal incomes taxes. Personal holding company income is comprised primarily of passive investment income plus, under certain circumstances, personal service income. The Company’s income tax group could become subject to the penalty tax if (i) 60% or more of our adjusted ordinary gross income is personal holding company income and (ii) 50% or more of our outstanding common stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of the taxable year. We believe that five or fewer of our stockholders hold 50% or more of our outstanding common stock for purposes of IRC Section 541. However, as of December 31, 2005, we had no undistributed personal holding company income and therefore have not recorded a personal holding company tax liability. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to this tax in the future that in turn may materially and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A change of ownership could reduce the benefits associated with the Company’s tax assets. A change of ownership pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code could significantly or possibly eliminate our utilization of our net operating losses and/or alternative minimum tax credits. An 15 Table of Contents ownership change for this purpose is generally a change in the majority ownership of a company over a three year period. Our company is majority-owned by the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership. As a result of this ownership, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Our majority stockholder, the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership, will have the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. In addition, any action requiring a simple-majority stockholder vote can be determined solely by our majority stockholder. This includes the ability to elect all members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, such as merger and acquisition decisions, and the election of directors, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This level of ownership may also have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Zapata and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, as applicable, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. Though we have utilized exemptions (1) and (2) above and the written charter requirement of (3), the Company currently has a Compensation Committee comprised entirely of independent directors. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have a compensation committee comprised entirely of independent directors, nor that we will continue to utilize the other exemptions while we are a controlled company. The exercise of our subsidiaries’ outstanding stock options could significantly dilute our ownership in these subsidiaries. Subsidiary stock option exercises could significantly dilute our ownership in our subsidiaries. Such dilution would cause us to consolidate proportionately less net income (or loss) recognized by our subsidiaries and would increase minority interest. Such dilution could also cause a loss of control (typically when ownership falls below 50%) which could lead to deconsolidation. Such investments would be subsequently accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The carrying value of our prepaid pension asset could be significantly reduced if we terminate our pension plan. In the event that we decide to terminate our pension plan (the “Plan”), at the time of this decision, we would be required to incur a non-cash charge through earnings in an amount equal to the remaining balance of the Plan’s unrecognized net losses component of the Plan’s prepaid pension asset. If not terminated, the Plan will continue to be subject to the additional minimum liability requirements of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions”. Such requirements require the recognition of an additional pension liability in the amount of the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation in excess of accrued pension with an equal amount to be recognized net of the associated tax benefits in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. Accordingly, depending on market conditions, we may have to reverse our prepaid pension balance and record a pension liability through a non-cash charge to equity. As we have not determined if we will terminate the Plan, and due to the uncertainty of market conditions, we can provide no assurances as to the ultimate financial statement impact that Plan modifications or changes in market conditions may have. 16 Table of Contents Litigation defense and settlement costs may be material. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any pending litigation in which we are involved. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not presently reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. Indemnification agreements with former subsidiaries or related parties may cause us to spend our capital resources to meet obligations related to the agreements. Throughout our history, we have entered into numerous transactions relating to the sale, disposal or spin-off of partially and wholly owned subsidiaries. Pursuant to certain of these transactions, we may be obligated to indemnify other parties to these agreements. These obligations include indemnifications for losses incurred by such parties arising out of the operations of such businesses prior to these transactions or the inaccuracy of representations of information supplied by the Company in connection with such transactions. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, we were notified by Weatherford International Inc. (“Weatherford”) of a claim for reimbursement of in connection with the investigation and cleanup of purported environmental contamination at two properties formerly owned by a non-operating Zapata subsidiary. The claim was made under an indemnification provision given by Zapata to Weatherford in a 1995 asset purchase agreement and relates to alleged environmental contamination that purportedly existed on the properties prior to the date of the sale. Future acquisitions may not require a shareholder vote and may be material to the Company. Any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and since we have not yet identified any additional assets, property or business that we may acquire or develop, potential investors will have virtually no substantive information about any such new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in the company. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any future acquisitions, stockholders may not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, or access to any information about any new business until such time as a transaction is completed and we file a report with the SEC disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. For example, during September and October 2003, stockholders were informed through press releases and SEC filings that we had acquired a significant stake in Safety Components. Such transactions materially affected our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the Safety Components acquisition, we utilized approximately $47.8 million of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments to complete the acquisition. The acquisition of Safety Components contributed an additional $63.5 million to our consolidated revenues for the fourth quarter of 2003. We may not be successful in identifying any suitable future acquisition opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any suitable future acquisitions, and, if an acquisition does occur, there is no assurance that it will be successful in enhancing our business or will increase our earnings or not materially adversely affect our financial condition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete suitable transactions or increase the cost that must be paid. Future acquisitions could also divert a substantial amount of our time, result in short term reductions in earnings or special transactions or other charges and may be difficult to integrate with existing operations or assets. We may, in the future, issue additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our stockholders. Depending upon the size and number of any future acquisitions, we may also borrow money to fund our acquisitions. In that event, our stockholders would be subject to the risks normally associated with leveraged transactions, including the inability to service the debt or the dedication of a significant amount of cash flow to service the debt, limitations on our ability to secure future financing and the imposition of certain operating restrictions. 17 Table of Contents Risks associated with Omega Protein that may impact Zapata include the following, any of which could have a material adverse impact on Omega’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows: Omega is dependent on a single natural resource and may not be able to catch the amount of menhaden that it requires to operate profitably. Omega’s primary raw material is menhaden. Omega’s business is totally dependent on its annual menhaden harvest in ocean waters along the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Omega’s ability to meet its raw material requirements through its annual menhaden harvest fluctuates from year to year, and even at times month to month, due to natural conditions over which Omega has no control. These natural conditions, which include varying fish population, adverse weather conditions and disease, may prevent Omega from catching the amount of menhaden required to operate profitability. Omega’s operations are geographically concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico where they are susceptible to regional adverse weather patterns such as hurricanes. Three of Omega’s four operating plants are located in the Gulf of Mexico (two in Louisiana and one in Mississippi), a region which has historically been subject to a late summer/early fall hurricane season. Omega’s Virginia facility has in the past also at times been adversely affected by hurricanes. All three of Omega’s Gulf of Mexico plants were severely damaged within a one-month span by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in August and September 2005. Immediately after the second hurricane, approximately 70% of Omega’s 2004 production capacity was impaired and Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition were materially adversely affected. Additional future weather related disruptions could, if they occur, also have a material adverse effect on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Omega’s costs of insurance for property damage will likely increase materially in future years as insurers recoup losses paid and to be paid out in connection with the Katrina and Rita hurricanes by charging higher premiums. It is possible that Hurricanes Katrina and Rita may have adversely affected Gulf Coast waters by causing increased pollution or debris in shallow waters where Omega historically has operated and these adverse effects if they occur could adversely affect Omega’s ability to catch menhaden. The costs of energy may materially impact Omega’s business. Omega has experienced substantially higher costs for energy in recent years, particularly in 2005 and expects these higher costs to continue into 2006. Omega’s business is materially dependent on diesel fuel for its vessels and natural gas for its operating facilities. The costs of these commodities, which are beyond Omega’s control, may have an adverse impact on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuation in “oil yields” derived from Omega’s fish catch could impact Omega’s ability to operate profitably. The “oil yield,” or the percentage of oil derived from the menhaden fish, while it is relatively high compared to many species of fish, has fluctuated over the years and from month to month due to natural conditions relating to fish biology over which Omega has no control. The oil yield has at times materially impacted the amount of fish oil that Omega has been able to produce from its available fish catch and it is possible that oil yields in the future could also adversely impact Omega’s ability to operate profitably. Laws or regulations that restrict or prohibit menhaden or purse seine fishing operations could adversely affect Omega’s ability to operate. The adoption of new laws or regulations at federal, regional, state or local levels that restrict or prohibit menhaden or purse seine fishing operations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could materially adversely affect Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the impact of a violation by Omega of federal, regional, state or local law or regulation relating to its fishing 18 Table of Contents operations, the protection of the environment or the health and safety of its employees could have a material adverse affect on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. One example of potentially restrictive regulation involves an addendum to a fisheries management plan recommended by a regional regulatory board in August 2005 which, if it were to be adopted by the Commonwealth of Virginia, could limit for a five-year period the annual amount commercial menhaden catch in the Chesapeake Bay to Omega’s 5-year average Bay catch. There is also the possibility, which Omega does not believe is likely, that if the U.S. Secretary of Commerce were to find the Commonwealth of Virginia out of compliance with the management plan, that he could declare a moratorium on all commercial harvesting of menhaden in Virginia waters unless Virginia were to comply with the restriction. Omega’s fish catch may be impacted by restrictions on its spotter aircraft. If Omega’s spotter aircraft are prohibited or restricted from operating in their normal manner during Omega’s fishing season, Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, as a direct result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Secretary of Transportation issued a federal ground stop order that grounded certain aircraft (including Omega’s fish-spotting aircraft) for approximately nine days. This loss of spotter aircraft coverage severely hampered Omega’s ability to locate menhaden fish during this nine-day period and thereby reduced its amount of saleable product. Worldwide supply and demand relationships, which are beyond Omega’s control, influence the prices that Omega receives for many of its products and may from time to time result in low prices for many of Omega’s products. Prices for many of Omega’s products are subject to, or influenced by, worldwide supply and demand relationships over which Omega has no control and which tend to fluctuate to a significant extent over the course of a year and from year to year. The factors that influence these supply and demand relationships are world supplies of fish meal made from other fish species, animal proteins and fats, palm oil, soy meal and oil, and other edible oils. New laws or regulation regarding contaminants in fish oil or fish meal may increase Omega’s cost of production or cause Omega to lose business. It is possible that future enactment of increasingly stringent regulations regarding contaminants in fish meal or fish oil by foreign countries or the United States may adversely affect Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. More stringent regulations could result in: (i) Omega’s incurrence of additional capital expenditures on contaminant reduction technology in order to meet the requirements of those jurisdictions, and possibly higher production costs for Company’s products, or (ii) Omega’s withdrawal from marketing its products in those jurisdictions. Three of Omega’s four operating plants were severely damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and Omega has had to undertake substantial rebuilding efforts. As an immediate result of the two hurricanes, approximately 70% of Omega’s operating capacity was impaired. Operations at the Moss Point and Abbeville fish processing facilities and the shipyard were re-established in mid-October 2005, but at reduced processing capabilities. Omega expects that these two facilities will return to full operational status prior to the beginning of the Gulf fishing season in April 2006. Omega is currently rebuilding is Cameron, Louisiana facility and expects it to be fully operational by mid 2006. The costs of the rebuilding efforts will be substantial and not all costs will be covered by insurance due to deductibles, exclusions and other policy limitations. In addition, there could be some initial loss of productivity as Company personnel become familiar with new equipment and associated new operating procedures. Omega’s failure to successfully rebuild its operations by effectively managing rebuilding costs, as well as any 19 Table of Contents initial loss of productivity from the rebuilding efforts, could have a material adverse effect on Omega’s financial condition and results of operations. Omega’s plan to operate 31 vessels out of two Gulf of Mexico plants in 2006 rather than three may be unsuccessful. Because of the damages to Omega’s Cameron, Louisiana facility caused by Hurricane Rita, Omega intends to begin its 2006 fishing season by operating its full contingent of 31 Gulf of Mexico fishing vessels out of its two operating facilities in Abbeville, Louisiana and Moss Point, Mississippi. Later in the 2006 fishing season when Omega expects that the Cameron, Louisiana plant will be operational, up to 11 vessels will be shifted to Cameron. This plan will substantially increase the number of vessels at Abbeville and Moss Point to a level that Omega has not operated at previously. Although these two facilities have adequate processing capacity, Omega believes that fishing efforts may be diminished because increased unloading time due to additional vessels will keep some vessels off the fishing grounds during the most optimal fishing times. It is possible that other logistical, mechanical or other manpower constraints arising out of this increased vessel load could also reduce the efficiency of these two plants. Omega’s strategy to expand into the food grade oils market may be unsuccessful. Omega’s attempts to expand its fish oil sales into the market for refined, food grade fish oils for human consumption may not be successful. Omega’s expectations regarding future demand for Omega-3 fatty acids may prove to be incorrect or, if future demand does meet Omega’s expectations, it is possible that purchasers could utilize Omega-3 sources other than Omega’s products. Omega’s quarterly operating results will fluctuate. Fluctuations in Omega’s quarterly operating results will occur due to the seasonality of Omega’s business, the unpredictability of Omega’s fish catch and oil yields, and Omega’s deferral of sales of inventory based on worldwide prices for competing products. Omega’s business is subject to significant competition, and some competitors have significantly greater financial resources and more extensive and diversified operations than Omega. The marine protein and oil business is subject to significant competition from producers of vegetable and other animal protein products and oil products such as Archer Daniels Midland and Cargill. In addition, but to a lesser extent, Omega competes with small domestic privately-owned menhaden fishing companies and international marine protein and oil producers, including Scandinavian herring processors and South American anchovy and sardine processors. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and more extensive and diversified operations than Omega. Omega’s foreign customers are subject to disruption typical to foreign countries. Omega’s sales of its products in foreign countries are subject to risks associated with foreign countries such as changes in social, political and economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, including: • Changes in the law and policies that govern foreign investment and international trade in foreign countries; • Changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign investment and trade; • Changes in tax or other laws; • Partial or total expropriation; • Current exchange rate fluctuations; • Restrictions on current repatriation; or • Political disturbances, insurrection or war. 20 Table of Contents In addition, it is possible that Omega, at any one time, could have a significant amount of its revenues generated by sales in a particular country which would concentrate Omega’s susceptibility to adverse events in that country. Omega may undertake acquisitions that are unsuccessful and Omega’s inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring businesses could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition operations. In the future Omega may undertake acquisitions of other businesses, located either in the United States or in other countries, although there can be no assurances that this will occur. There can be no assurance that Omega will be able (i) to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on favorable terms, (ii) to profitably manage future businesses it may acquire, or (iii) to successfully integrate future businesses it may acquire without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Omega’s failure to comply with federal U.S. citizenship ownership requirements may prevent it from harvesting menhaden in the U.S. jurisdictional waters. Omega’s harvesting operations are subject to the Shipping Act of 1916 and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration which require, among other things, that Omega be incorporated under the laws of the U.S. or a state, Omega’s chief executive officer be a U.S. citizen, no more of Omega’s directors be non-citizens than a minority of a number necessary to constitute a quorum and at least 75% of Omega’s outstanding capital stock (including a majority of its voting capital stock) be owned by U.S. citizens. If Omega fails to observe any of these requirements, Omega will not be eligible to conduct its harvesting activities in U.S. jurisdictional waters. Such a lost of eligibility would have a material adverse effect on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Omega may not be able to recruit, train and retain qualified marine personnel in sufficient numbers. Omega’s business is dependent on its ability to recruit, train and retain qualified marine personnel in sufficient numbers such as vessel captains, vessel engineers and other crewmembers. To the extent that Omega is not successful in recruiting, training and retaining these employees in sufficient numbers, its productivity may suffer. If Omega were unable to secure a sufficient number of workers during periods of peak employment, the lack of personnel could have an adverse effect on Omega’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have exacerbated the difficulties of recruiting and retaining qualified marine personnel in the Gulf Coast area. Omega participates in the United States H2B Visa Program whereby foreign nationals are permitted to enter the United States temporarily and engage in seasonal, non-agricultural employment. Omega utilizes its H2B Visa workers for a portion of its fishing vessel crews and plant personnel. Changes in the H2B Visa Program, the termination of that program, or caps on the number of workers available under that program, could have a material adverse effect upon Omega’s ability to secure a sufficient number of workers during periods of peak employment. Omega’s Credit Facility and other Fisheries Finance Program loan agreements contain covenants and restrictions that may limit Omega’s financial flexibility. Omega’s Credit Facility with Bank of America, N.A. and Omega’s loan agreements under the Title XI Fisheries Finance Program contain various covenants and restrictions such as prohibitions on dividends and stock repurchases without the lender’s consent. The Credit Facility also contains various financial covenants that provide, for example, that Omega may not report two quarters of consecutive net losses, and that Omega must maintain a certain ratio of earnings to fixed charges. Because Omega did experience net losses in quarters three and four in 2005 and did not maintain the required fixed charge coverage ratio for the fourth quarter of 2005, it requested (and received) a waiver of these two covenants from the bank lender. If Omega were to experience an additional two quarters of consecutive net losses or fail to maintain the fixed charge 21 Table of Contents coverage ratio covenant again, it would require an additional waiver from the bank lender or Omega would be in default under the Credit Facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 