ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. During the recent economic recession, global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction. The volatility and disruption to the capital markets significantly adversely affected global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and perceived wealth. Although there have been some recent improvements, continuing or worsened adverse economic conditions, including higher unemployment, energy and health care costs, interest rates and taxes and tighter credit, could continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding requirements. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. In addition to our U.S. businesses, we operate stores in Canada and Europe and plan to continue to expand our international operations. Sales made by our stores outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Because of this, movements in exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our net sales and earnings. Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our international segments that is denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of an accounting period. These adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases by our businesses that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business. When these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. A significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in China and accordingly, a revaluation of the Chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the U.S. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located could be particularly significant. Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. Failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could adversely affect our business. We purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. To drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience is enhanced by rapid inventory turns and continued replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores. While opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the appropriate pricing, quantity, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. In addition, we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we 9 may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our pricing model requires that we purchase inventory sufficiently below conventional retail to maintain our pricing differential and margin, which we may not achieve at times. We must also properly execute our inventory management strategies through appropriately allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns. Our vendors and others in our supply chain are also subject to risks of labor issues, financial liquidity, weather and other natural disasters, economic, political and regulatory conditions and other matters that could affect our ability to receive and provide to our stores acceptable merchandise in adequate quantities on a timely basis. Failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. Failure to continue to expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results. Our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through successful new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. Successful store growth requires acquisition and development of appropriate real estate including selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable sites, increases in real estate, construction and development costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future or adversely affect the economics of new stores. We may encounter difficulties in attracting customers in new markets for various reasons including decisions to open new banners, expansion into new geographies, customers’ lack of familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and cultural differences. New stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and new and existing stores in a market area may adversely affect each other’s sales and profitability. Further, expansion places significant demands on the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. As a result, we may need to reduce our rate of expansion or we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, and it may adversely affect our results. Failure to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we take various steps to keep up with customer trends and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping. Our flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing tastes. However, identifying consumer trends and preferences in the various geographies in which we do business and successfully meeting customer demand is challenging, and we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. Our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors’ expectations. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates we plan and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors’ expectations. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. Factors that could cause us not to meet our securities analysts’ or investors’ earnings expectations include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer confidence, seasonality, and cost increases due, among other things, to government regulation and increased healthcare costs. In addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. If we do not correctly forecast sales and control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 10 Our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. Our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets, to expand to new markets and geographies and to attract new customers in existing and new markets across demographics. This growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different categories of merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, development and opening of new chains or potential expansion of e-commerce, all of which entail significant risk. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our business in these ways. If any of our expansion vehicles does not achieve the success we expect in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment or close stores or operations. Unsuccessful extension of our model could adversely affect growth and financial performance. If we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. We use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores. We use various media for these programs, including print, television, social media, database marketing and direct marketing. Some of our competitors may have substantially larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Information posted about us and our merchandise on social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, social media websites, and other forums for Internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, may be inaccurate or may harm our brand, which could have a material effect on our revenue and results of operations. Compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. We suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the “Computer Intrusion”) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007 in which we believe customer data were stolen. We have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the Federal Trade Commission. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. This is also true for check information and approval. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential Company business information. In addition, a Company associate, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. Any such compromise of our data security and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers’ willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. Our business is subject to seasonal influences; a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. We operate multiple retail chains in the U.S., Canada and Europe. Some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted with relative autonomy. The large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy 11 afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different chains and countries. Unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. Adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers’ willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores. Severe weather could also affect our ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers. As a result, frequent, unusually heavy, unseasonable or untimely weather in our markets, such as snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures, could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. Increased governmental regulations focused on climate change could increase compliance costs. Our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. Day to day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution center. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. We compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, whether in stores, through catalogues or media or over the internet. We compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service, reputation and store location. Other competitive factors that influence the demand for our merchandise include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. If we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. In addition, any failure of third-parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. Recently enacted health care reform legislation could increase our costs. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. In addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do significant internal training and development for a substantial number of our associates. The market for retail management is highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. If we do not continue to attract, train and retain quality associates and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. If we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. We have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest, close or consolidate current businesses. Acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses. We may do a less-than-optimal job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits, and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and time-consuming. Acquisitions may not meet our performance and other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected liabilities and risks. Divestitures, closings and 12 consolidations also involve risks, such as the risks of exposure on lease and other contractual, employment and severance obligations, obligations undertaken in the process and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of the acquirer. Failure to execute on mergers or divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. We rely extensively on various information systems, data centers and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, and to generate performance and financial reports. We are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our associates or contractors. The efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. We depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayments, stock repurchases and dividends. Our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed could adversely affect our financial performance including our earnings per share. General economic and other factors may adversely affect consumer spending, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic, political and other factors beyond our control have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. Consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which may include TJX. Although we benefit from being an off-price retailer, these factors could adversely affect our sales and performance if we are not able to implement strategies to mitigate them promptly and successfully. Issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. Various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell in our stores. Regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, change from time to time. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their contractual obligations to do so. Issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children’s products, or issues with the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries. Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many foreign countries, particularly southeastern Asia. Where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. We are subject to the various risks of 13 doing business in foreign markets, importing merchandise from abroad and purchasing product made in foreign countries, such as: — potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; — changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; — strikes and other events affecting delivery; — consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; — product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; — product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; — concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is produced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in these countries; — compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; — potentially greater exposure for product warranty and safety problems; and — economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that our associates, contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. Our expanding international operations increasingly expose us to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. We have a significant retail presence in Canada and Europe, as well as buying offices around the world, and our goal as a global retailer is to continue to expand into other international markets in the future. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Our results may be adversely affected by increases in the price of oil and other commodities. Prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have recently risen significantly. Increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. Although we have implemented a hedging strategy to manage a portion of our transportation costs, increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. Similarly, other commodity prices have also fluctuated dramatically in the past. Cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics have recently risen significantly. Such increases are expected to increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. Failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. We are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations in the United States and abroad, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. If we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. We must also comply with new and changing laws. Further, Generally 14 Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the U.S. may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. In addition, there have been a large number of new legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms introduced in the U.S., and the initiatives and reforms that have been and may be enacted may increase our costs. Our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation and other legal proceedings. We are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which may involve local, state and federal government inquiries and investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer litigation and intellectual property litigation; or other disputes. There have been a growing number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions, and we have been subject to these types of suits. In addition, we may be subject to investigations and other proceedings by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, escheat and employment and wage and hour regulations. Results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys’ fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to various financial risks. We lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate, which can have a material adverse effect on our results as reflected in our reserve for former operations. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When we assign or sublease leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. In addition, when leases for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores. Our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. In addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. Tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in U.S. tax legislation and regulation, foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by federal, state and local tax authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries, such authorities may challenge positions we take, and we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, and the results of these examinations, judicial proceedings or as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations in specific jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. However, it is possible that the actual results of proceedings with tax authorities and in courts, 15 changes in facts, expiration of statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions will differ from the amounts we have accrued in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 