Item 1A. Risk Factors. A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: Our success depends in part on the popularity of our brand and the reputation and popularity of our founder, Martha Stewart. The value of our brand may diminish if the popularity of Ms. Stewart were to suffer. Adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart, or the loss of her services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base. While we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products as a stand-alone brand, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart remain important factors. Ms. Stewart’s efforts, personality and leadership have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While the Company has managed its business without her daily participation, the repeated diminution or loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2004, Ms. Stewart was found guilty of conspiracy, obstruction of an agency proceeding, and making false statements to federal investigators concerning her personal sale of non-Company stock. Ms. Stewart was sentenced to five months in prison and two years of supervised release, including five months of home confinement. Ms. Stewart has completed her prison term and home confinement. In connection with those same events, the SEC filed a civil complaint against Ms. Stewart in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging violations of federal securities law. The Company is not a party to this case. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the impending SEC action may have on Ms. Stewart’s personal reputation and the Company’s business or prospects. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming and products, which strongly appeal to a large number of homemakers and other consumers. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts and products. The strength of our brand name and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence these tastes through broadcasting, publishing, merchandising and the Internet. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of homemakers and other consumers. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing ideas and content will continue to appeal to the public. Martha Stewart controls our company through her stock ownership, enabling her to elect who sits on our board of directors, and potentially to block matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential changes of control. Ms. Stewart controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing approximately 92% of our voting power. The Class B common stock has ten votes per share, while Class A common stock, which is the stock available to the public, has one vote per share. Because of this dual-class structure, Ms. Stewart has a disproportionately influential vote. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to control unilaterally the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and the ability to control our management and affairs. This concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our business and result in very expensive litigation. Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity and resulting intellectual property. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are materially dependent. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. If we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly, affecting our finances and our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our business. Termination of our licensing agreement with Kmart relating to Martha Stewart Everyday products could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In 2005, we received approximately 89% of our merchandising revenues from our licensing agreement with Kmart. This agreement provides Kmart with the right in the United States and its territories during the term to use the trademark Martha Stewart Everyday in connection with a variety of products designed by us and sold by Kmart. On April 22, 2004, we reached an agreement with Kmart to amend the terms of our contract and executed certain releases with respect to a legal action Kmart filed against us on February 11, 2004. The amendment, among other things, extended the Kmart contract for an additional two years and expanded the scope of the contract to cover several new product categories. At the same time, the amendment eliminated provisions of the contract providing for payment of guaranteed minimum royalties by individual product category and reduced the amount Kmart is obligated under the contract to spend with us on advertising in our various media properties. The amendment also reduced the aggregate minimum royalty payments. The aggregate minimum royalty payment for the period February 1, 2004 to January 31, 2005 was reduced to $49.0 million from $53.4 million previously. Due principally to store closures (since the signing of the agreement in June 2001, Kmart has closed approximately 30% of its stores) and lower same-store sales, we expect the minimum guarantees will significantly exceed the royalties that otherwise would be earned from actual retail sales through 2007. For the contract years ending January 31, 2009 and 2010 (the extension years), the minimum guarantees will be substantially lower than in prior years. If Kmart was unable to honor its obligations to us our business would be disrupted and our revenues and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We are expanding our merchandising and licensing programs into new areas and products, the failure of any of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing retail merchandising programs. We have entered into new merchandising and licensing agreements. Some of these agreements are exclusive and have a duration of many years. While we require that our licensees maintain the quality of our brands through specific contractual provisions, we cannot be certain that our licensees, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brand name. There is also a risk that the extension of our brand into new business areas will meet with disapproval from consumers. We have limited experience in merchandising in some of these business areas. We cannot guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or if they will be successful when they are in place. If the licensing or merchandising programs do not succeed, we may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusive nature and multi-year terms of these agreements. If these and other programs are not successful, our brand recognition, business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If the MARTHA daily television show fails to maintain a sufficient audience, if adverse trends develop in the television production business generally, or if Martha Stewart were to cease to be able to devote substantial time to our television business, that business would be adversely affected. Our television production business is subject to a number of uncertainties. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by: Failure of our television programming to maintain a sufficient audience Television production is a speculative business because revenues and income derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming depends upon, among other things, the quality of that programming, the strength of stations on which that programming is broadcast, promotion of that programming, the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. While the MARTHA television program has met with some initial success, if ratings were to decline, it would adversely affect the advertising revenues we derive from television and may result in the television program being broadcast on fewer stations. A ratings decline could make it economically inefficient to continue production of the program in the daily one-hour format or otherwise. If production of the television program were to cease, it could result in a writedown of our capitalized programming costs. The amount of any writedown would vary depending on a number of factors, including when production ceased and the extent to which we continued to generate revenues from the use of our existing program library. Adverse trends in the television production business generally Television revenues and income may also be affected by a number of other factors, most of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in broadcast television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is broadcast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. All of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. While we currently benefit from our ability to sell advertising on our television programs, if these changes occur, we can make no assurance that we will continue to be able to sell this advertising or that our advertising rates can be maintained. Our future licensing fees may also be adversely affected by these changes. Accordingly, if any of these changes were to occur, the revenues and income we generate from television programming could decline. We have placed emphasis on building our internet community. Failure to fulfill these undertakings would adversely affect our brand and business prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon the development of our Internet business. We have had failures with direct commerce in the past, and only limited experience in building an internet-based community. In order for our Internet business to succeed, we must, among other things: 11 Table of Contents • make significant investments in our Internet business, including upgrading our technology and adding a significant number of new employees; • significantly increase our online traffic and revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our website; • expand the content and products we offer over our website; • respond to competitive developments and maintain a distinct brand identity; • form and maintain relationships with strategic partners; and • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies. We cannot assure that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives or that our Internet business will be profitable. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are undertaking many new business ventures and expanding our business into new areas. We cannot assure that these new businesses will be successful or that the relationships through which we have entered these businesses will be successful. If we fail in any of these new businesses, or if our relationships fail, our image and business may be adversely affected. We have developed relationships with a several new strategic partners in new areas of business, including home building and crafts. We are seeking new business relationships on an on-going basis. We hope to grow our business through these relationships as we expand our product offerings. We could be materially adversely affected if these businesses do not succeed or if these business relationships were to fail before we have similar arrangements in place with other partners. Any such failure could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is largely dependent on advertising revenues in our publications, online operations and broadcasts. Failure to attract or retain these advertisers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on advertising revenue in our publishing, broadcasting and Internet businesses. We cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. If advertisers decide to spend less money, or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our publications or broadcasts, our revenues and business would be materially adversely affected. A loss of the services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success depends upon the retention of our key management executives, as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff, who have been instrumental in our success, and upon our ability to attract and retain other highly capable and creative individuals. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Continued growth and success in our business depends, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We operate in four highly competitive businesses: Publishing, Broadcasting, Merchandising and Internet, each of which subjects us to competitive pressures. We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our four businesses: Publishing, Broadcasting, Merchandising and Internet. We have described these competitive pressures in each of the pertinent business descriptions. Please see “Business—Publishing–Competition,” “Business—Broadcasting–Competition,” “Business—Merchandising–Competition,” and “Business—Internet–Competition” for a description of our competitive risks in the applicable business line. 12 Table of Contents We have been named as a defendant in a class action lawsuit, the effects of which cannot be known. We (together with Ms. Stewart and seven of our present or former officers) have been named as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging violations of various securities laws. While we have insurance against such claims, and, we believe, substantial defenses, we cannot predict what effect, if any, this lawsuit may have on our balance sheet, business or prospects if there is an adverse result. For more information, please see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 