Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Significant Indebtedness of Us and Our Subsidiaries We and our subsidiaries have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. We and our subsidiaries have a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $19.9 billion, our shareholders' deficit was approximately $7.9 billion and the deficiency of earnings to cover fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1.4 billion. 20 Because of our significant indebtedness and adverse changes in the capital markets, our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all, is uncertain, and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or payments to their parent companies is subject to availability of funds and restrictions under our subsidiaries' applicable debt instruments and under applicable law. If we need to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or find it necessary to engage in a recapitalization or other similar transaction, our shareholders could suffer significant dilution, including potential loss of the entire value of their investment, and in the case of a recapitalization or other similar transaction, our noteholders might not receive principal and interest payments to which they are contractually entitled. Our significant amount of debt could have other important consequences. For example, the debt will or could: · require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; · make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because net of hedging transactions approximately 15% of our borrowings are, and will continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest; · expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt; · adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our notes and for our subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations to the lenders under their credit facilities and to their noteholders; and · limit future increases in the value, or cause a decline in the value of our equity, which could limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing equity. A default by one of our subsidiaries under its debt obligations could result in the acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities, the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes, the secured lenders under the CCO Holdings credit facility, and the holders of the CCH I notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interest in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities or the indentures governing our convertible senior notes or our subsidiaries’ debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, the value of our equity and our ability to make payments on our convertible senior notes, Charter Operating’s credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional debt in the future. If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that we now face will intensify. The agreements and instruments governing our debt and the debt of our subsidiaries contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity. Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our and our subsidiaries' debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to: · incur additional debt; · repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; · issue equity; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · pay dividends or make other distributions; · dispose of assets or merge; · enter into related party transactions; and · grant liens and pledge assets. 21 The breach of any covenants or obligations in the foregoing indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the Charter Operating credit facilities, the holders of the Charter Operating senior second-lien notes, the secured lenders under the CCO Holdings credit facility, and the holders of the CCH I notes could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities or the indentures governing our convertible notes or our subsidiaries' debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our convertible senior notes, our credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. We may not be able to access funds under the Charter Operating revolving credit facilities if we fail to satisfy the covenant restrictions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business. Our subsidiaries have historically relied on access to credit facilities to fund operations, capital expenditures, and to service parent company debt, and we expect such reliance to continue in the future. Our total potential borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility was approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2007, none of which was limited by covenant restrictions. There can be no assurance that actual availability under our credit facility will not be limited by covenant restrictions in the future. One of the conditions to the availability of funding under the Charter Operating revolving credit facility is the absence of a default under such facility, including as a result of any failure to comply with the covenants under the facilities. Among other covenants, the Charter Operating revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified leverage ratios. The Charter Operating revolving credit facility also provides that Charter Operating obtain an unqualified audit opinion from its independent accountants for each fiscal year, which, among other things, requires Charter to demonstrate its ability to fund its projected liquidity needs for a reasonable period of time following the balance sheet date of the financial statements being audited. There can be no assurance that Charter Operating will be able to continue to comply with these or any other of the covenants under the credit facilities. See “—We and our subsidiaries have a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business” for a discussion of the consequences of a default under our debt obligations. We depend on generating sufficient cash flow and having access to additional liquidity sources to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on both our ability to generate and grow cash flow and our access to additional liquidity sources. Our ability to generate and grow cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: · the impact of competition from other distributors, including incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite operators, wireless broadband providers and DSL providers; · difficulties in growing, further introducing, and operating our telephone services, while adequately meeting customer expectations for the reliability of voice services; · our ability to adequately meet demand for installations and customer service; · our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flows from operating activities by offering video, high-speed Internet, telephone and other services, and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition; · our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to adequately raise prices to offset the effects of higher programming costs; · general business conditions, economic uncertainty or slowdown, including the recent significant slowdown in the new housing sector and overall economy; and · the effects of governmental regulation on our business. Some of these factors are beyond our control. It is also difficult to assess the impact that the general economic downturn and recent turmoil in the credit markets will have on future operations and financial results. However, we believe there is risk that the economic slowdown could result in reduced spending by customers and advertisers, which could reduce our revenues and our cash flows from operating activities from those that otherwise would have been generated. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or access additional liquidity sources, we may not 22 be able to service and repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. We expect that cash on hand, cash flows from operating activities, and the amounts available under Charter Operating’s credit facilities will be adequate to meet our projected cash needs through the second or third quarter of 2009 and thereafter will not be sufficient to fund such needs. Our projected cash needs and projected sources of liquidity depend upon, among other things, our actual results, the timing and amount of our capital expenditures, and ongoing compliance with the Charter Operating credit facilities, including Charter Operating’s obtaining an unqualified audit opinion from our independent accountants. Charter will therefore need to obtain additional sources of liquidity by early 2009. Although we and our subsidiaries have been able to raise funds through issuances of debt in the past, we may not be able to access additional sources of liquidity on similar terms or pricing as those that are currently in place, or at all. An inability to access additional sources of liquidity could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our ability to make payments on our convertible senior notes, our credit facilities, and other debt of our subsidiaries, and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, which could materially adversely impact our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments, and would reduce or eliminate the value of our equity shares. See “Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Because of our holding company structure, our outstanding notes are structurally subordinated in right of payment to all liabilities of our subsidiaries. Restrictions in our subsidiaries' debt instruments and under applicable law limit their ability to provide funds to us or our various debt issuers. Charter’s primary assets are our equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and are not obligated to make funds available to us for payments on our notes or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions, or otherwise. Our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us or the applicable debt issuers to service debt obligations is subject to their compliance with the terms of their credit facilities and indentures, and restrictions under applicable law. See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Limitations on Distributions” and “— Summary of Restrictive Covenants of Our High Yield Notes – Restrictions on Distributions.” Under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, our subsidiaries may only make distributions if they have “surplus” as defined in the act. Under fraudulent transfer laws, our subsidiaries may not pay dividends if they are insolvent or are rendered insolvent thereby. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; · the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they became due. While we believe that our relevant subsidiaries currently have surplus and are not insolvent, there can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will not become insolvent or will be permitted to make distributions in the future in compliance with these restrictions in amounts needed to service our indebtedness. Our direct or indirect subsidiaries include the borrowers and guarantors under the Charter Operating and CCO Holdings credit facilities. Several of our subsidiaries are also obligors and guarantors under senior high yield notes. Our convertible senior notes are structurally subordinated in right of payment to all of the debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $19.9 billion, of which approximately $19.5 billion was structurally senior to our convertible senior notes. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation, or dissolution of one or more of our subsidiaries, that subsidiary's assets would first be applied to satisfy its own obligations, and following such payments, such subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to its parent company as an equity holder or otherwise. In that event: · the lenders under Charter Operating's credit facilities, whose interests are secured by substantially all of our operating assets, and all holders of other debt of our subsidiaries, will have the right to be paid in full before us from any of our subsidiaries' assets; and · the holders of preferred membership interests in our subsidiary, CC VIII, would have a claim on a portion of its assets that may reduce the amounts available for repayment to holders of our outstanding notes. 23 All of our and our subsidiaries' outstanding debt is subject to change of control provisions. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness following a change of control, which would place us in default under the applicable debt instruments. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to fulfill our obligations under our and our subsidiaries' notes and credit facilities following a change of control. Under the indentures governing our and our subsidiaries' notes, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, we are required to offer to repurchase all of these notes. However, Charter and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control event to make the required repurchase of these notes, and our subsidiaries are limited in their ability to make distributions or other payments to fund any required repurchase. In addition, a change of control under our credit facilities would result in a default under those credit facilities. Because such credit facilities and our subsidiaries' notes are obligations of our subsidiaries, the credit facilities and our subsidiaries' notes would have to be repaid by our subsidiaries before their assets could be available to us to repurchase our convertible senior notes. Our failure to make or complete a change of control offer would place us in default under our convertible senior notes. The failure of our subsidiaries to make a change of control offer or repay the amounts accelerated under their notes and credit facilities would place them in default. Paul G. Allen and his affiliates are not obligated to purchase equity from, contribute to, or loan funds to us or any of our subsidiaries. Paul G. Allen and his affiliates are not obligated to purchase equity from, contribute to, or loan funds to us or any of our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business and operations. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, easier access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale. Our principal competitors for video services throughout our territory are DBS providers. The two largest DBS providers are DirecTV and Echostar. Competition from DBS, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased high definition broadcasting has had an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers. DBS has grown rapidly over the last several years. The cable industry, including us, has lost a significant number of video customers to DBS competition, and we face serious challenges in this area in the future. Telephone companies, including two major telephone companies, AT&T and Verizon, and utilities can offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future. AT&T and Verizon are both upgrading their networks. Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video services comparable to ours, in the case of Verizon, high-speed data services that operate at speeds as high as or higher than ours, and digital voice services that are similar to ours. These services are offered at prices similar to those for comparable Charter services. Based on our internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering these services in areas serving approximately 5% to 6% of our estimated homes passed as of December 31, 2007. Additional upgrades and product launches, primarily by AT&T, are expected in markets in which we operate. With respect to our Internet access services, we face competition, including intensive marketing efforts and aggressive pricing, from telephone companies and other providers of DSL. DSL service is competitive with high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we offer. In addition, in many of our markets, these companies have entered into co-marketing arrangements with DBS providers to offer service bundles combining video services provided by a DBS provider with DSL and traditional telephone and wireless services offered by the telephone companies and their affiliates. These service bundles substantially resemble our bundles. Moreover, as we expand our telephone offerings, we will face considerable competition from established telephone companies and other carriers. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an overbuild. Overbuilds could adversely affect our growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or 24 increasing competition. Based on internal estimates and excluding telephone companies, as of December 31, 2007, we are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 7% to 8% of our estimated homes passed, and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing approximately an additional 2% of our estimated homes passed. Additional overbuild situations may occur in other systems. In order to attract new customers, from time to time we make promotional offers, including offers of temporarily reduced price or free service. These promotional programs result in significant advertising, programming and operating expenses, and also require us to make capital expenditures to acquire and install customer premise equipment. Customers who subscribe to our services as a result of these offerings may not remain customers following the end of the promotional period. A failure to retain customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers, joint ventures, and alliances among franchised, wireless, or private cable operators, DBS providers, local exchange carriers, and others, may provide additional benefits to some of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale, or the ability to provide multiple services in direct competition with us. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media, and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video-on-demand, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers, and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could also negatively impact advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us, as well as the price they are willing to pay for advertising. If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer. We cannot assure you that the services we provide and the services we can provide with our cable systems will allow us to compete effectively. Additionally, as we expand our offerings to include other telecommunications services, and to introduce new and enhanced services, we will be subject to competition from other providers of the services we offer. Competition may reduce our expected growth of future cash flows and increase our projected capital expenditures. We cannot predict the extent to which competition may affect our business and results of operations. We have a history of net losses and expect to continue to experience net losses. Consequently, we may not have the ability to finance future operations. We have had a history of net losses and expect to continue to report net losses for the foreseeable future. Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses and interest expenses we incur because of our high level of debt and the depreciation expenses that we incur resulting from the capital investments we have made in our cable properties. These expenses will remain significant. We reported net losses applicable to common stock of $1.6 billion, $1.4 billion, and $970 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Continued losses would reduce our cash available from operations to service our indebtedness, as well as limit our ability to finance our operations. We may not have the ability to reduce the high growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. We expect programming costs to continue to increase because of a variety of factors, including annual increases imposed by programmers and additional programming, including high definition and OnDemand programming, being provided to customers. The inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our customers has had an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins. We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2008. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms. To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable we may be forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which could result in a further loss of customers. 25 Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase our programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. If our required capital expenditures exceed our projections, we may not have sufficient funding, which could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we spent approximately $1.2 billion on capital expenditures. During 2008, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $1.2 billion. The actual amount of our capital expenditures depends on the level of growth in high-speed Internet and telephone customers, and in the delivery of other advanced broadband services such as additional high-definition channels, faster high-speed Internet services, DVRs and other customer premise equipment, as well as the cost of introducing any new services. We may need additional capital if there is accelerated growth in high-speed Internet customers, telephone customers or increased need to respond to competitive pressures by expanding the delivery of other advanced services. If we cannot obtain such capital from increases in our cash flow from operating activities, additional borrowings, proceeds from asset sales or other sources, our growth, competitiveness, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer materially. We face risks inherent in our telephone business. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we continue to introduce our telephone service in new operating areas and as we increase the scale of our telephone service offerings in areas in which they have already been launched. First, we face heightened customer expectations for the reliability of telephone services as compared with our video and high-speed data services. We have undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and we will continue to need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, we may need to increase our expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or we otherwise fail to meet customer expectations, our telephone business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for telephone services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet telephone services, as well as incumbent telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, and others, which may limit our ability to grow the service. Third, we depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, our ability to implement changes as the service grows may be limited. Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our telephone business and operations. Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and the introduction of new products and services, some of which are bandwidth-intensive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fund the capital expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, or that we will successfully anticipate the demand of our customers for products and services requiring new technology or bandwidth beyond our expectations. Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Consequently, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. 26 We depend on third party suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history or which may not be able to continue to supply the equipment and services we desire. Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment we need in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay our ability to serve our customers. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition. A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. For these reasons, we generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms. For example, each of our systems currently purchases set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors, because each of our cable systems uses one or two proprietary conditional access security schemes, which allow us to regulate subscriber access to some services, such as premium channels. We believe that the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant to produce set-top boxes. Future innovation in set-top boxes may be restricted until these issues are resolved. In addition, we believe that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has slowed the industry’s development and deployment of digital set-top box applications. Malicious and abusive Internet practices could impair our high-speed Internet services. Our high-speed Internet customers utilize our network to access the Internet and, as a consequence, we or they may become victim to common malicious and abusive Internet activities, such as peer-to-peer file sharing, unsolicited mass advertising (i.e., “spam”) and dissemination of viruses, worms, and other destructive or disruptive software. These activities could have adverse consequences on our network and our customers, including degradation of service, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers' equipment and data. Significant incidents could lead to customer dissatisfaction and, ultimately, loss of customers or revenue, in addition to increased costs to service our customers and protect our network. Any significant loss of high-speed Internet customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. We could be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This would impose significant restrictions on us and would be likely to have a material adverse impact on our growth, financial condition and results of operation. Our principal assets are our equity interests in Charter Holdco and certain indebtedness of Charter Holdco. If our membership interest in Charter Holdco were to constitute less than 50% of the voting securities issued by Charter Holdco, then our interest in Charter Holdco could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. This may occur, for example, if a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights and, in accordance with the terms of the Charter Holdco limited liability company agreement, our membership units in Charter Holdco were to lose their special voting privileges. A determination that such interest was an investment security could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless an exemption from registration were available or we were to obtain an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission excluding or exempting us from registration under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed an investment company, the Investment Company Act would impose significant restrictions on us, including severe limitations on our ability to borrow money, to issue additional capital stock, and to transact business with affiliates. In addition, because our operations are very different from those of the typical registered investment company, regulation under the Investment Company Act could affect us in other ways that are extremely difficult to predict. In sum, if we were deemed to be an investment 27 company it could become impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and our growth, our financial condition and our results of operations could suffer materially. If a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights, we would lose our rights to manage Charter Holdco. In addition to the investment company risks discussed above, this could materially impact the value of the Class A common stock. If a court determines that the Class B common stock is no longer entitled to special voting rights, Charter would no longer have a controlling voting interest in, and would lose its right to manage, Charter Holdco. If this were to occur: · we would retain our proportional equity interest in Charter Holdco but would lose all of our powers to direct the management and affairs of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries; and · we would become strictly a passive investment vehicle and would be treated under the Investment Company Act as an investment company. This result, as well as the impact of being treated under the Investment Company Act as an investment company, could materially adversely impact: · the liquidity of the Class A common stock; · how the Class A common stock trades in the marketplace; · the price that purchasers would be willing to pay for the Class A common stock in a change of control transaction or otherwise; and · the market price of the Class A common stock. Uncertainties that may arise with respect to the nature of our management role and voting power and organizational documents as a result of any challenge to the special voting rights of the Class B common stock, including legal actions or proceedings relating thereto, may also materially adversely impact the value of the Class A common stock. For tax purposes, there is a risk that we will experience a deemed ownership change resulting in a material limitation on our future ability to use a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards, and future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause a deemed ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we have approximately $7.9 billion of federal tax net operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.8 billion, expiring in the years 2008 through 2027. In addition, we also have state tax net operating losses, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $358 million, generally expiring in years 2008 through 2027. Due to uncertainties in projected future taxable income, valuation allowances have been established against the gross deferred tax assets for book accounting purposes, except for deferred benefits available to offset certain deferred tax liabilities. Currently, such tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset most of our future taxable income. However, an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, would place significant annual limitations on the use of such net operating losses to offset future taxable income we may generate. Although we have instituted a Rights Plan designed with the goal of attempting to prevent an ownership change, we cannot provide any assurance that the Rights Plan will actually prevent an ownership change from occurring. A limitation on our ability to use our net operating losses, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. Future transactions and the timing of such transactions could cause an ownership change for income tax purposes. Such transactions may include additional issuances of common stock by us (including but not limited to issuances upon future conversion of our 5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes), the return to us of the borrowed shares loaned by us in connection with the issuance of the 5.875% and 6.50% convertible senior notes, or acquisitions or sales of shares by certain holders of our shares, including persons who have held, currently hold, or may accumulate in the future five percent or more of our outstanding stock (including upon an exchange by Mr. Allen or his affiliates, directly or indirectly, of membership units of Charter Holdco into Charter’s Class B common stock). Many of the foregoing transactions, including whether Mr. Allen exchanges his Charter Holdco units, are beyond our control. 28 The failure to maintain a minimum share price of $1.00 per share of Class A common stock could result in delisting of our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which would harm the market price of Charter’s Class A common stock. In order to retain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market we are required to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Although, as of February 25, 2008, the trading price of Charter’s Class A common stock was $1.06 per share, our stock has traded near or below this $1.00 minimum in the recent past. If the bid price falls below the $1.00 minimum for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will have 180 days to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price for a period of at least 10 trading days. If we are unable to take action to increase the bid price per share (either by reverse stock split or otherwise), we could be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The failure to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market would harm the liquidity of Charter’s Class A common stock and would have adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If the stock were to trade it would likely trade on the OTC “pink sheets,” which provide significantly less liquidity than does NASDAQ. As a result, the liquidity of our common stock would be impaired, not only in the number of shares which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in security analysts’ and news media’s coverage, and lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be attained. In addition, our common stock would become subject to the low-priced security or so-called “penny stock” rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities. Risks Related to Mr. Allen's Controlling Position The failure by Mr. Allen to maintain a minimum voting and economic interest in us could trigger a change of control default under our subsidiary's credit facilities. The Charter Operating credit facilities provide that the failure by (a) Mr. Allen, (b) his estate, spouse, immediate family members and heirs and (c) any trust, corporation, partnership or other entity, the beneficiaries, stockholders, partners or other owners of which consist exclusively of Mr. Allen or such other persons referred to in (b) above or a combination thereof to maintain a 35% direct or indirect voting interest in the applicable borrower would result in a change of control default. Such a default could result in the acceleration of repayment of our and our subsidiaries' indebtedness, including borrowings under the Charter Operating credit facilities. Mr. Allen controls the majority of our stockholder votes and may have interests that conflict with the interests of the other holders of Charter’s Class A common stock. Mr. Allen has the ability to control us. Through his control, as of December 31, 2007, of approximately 91% of the voting power of our capital stock, Mr. Allen is entitled to elect all but one of Charter’s board members and has the voting power to elect the remaining board member as well. Mr. Allen thus has the ability to control fundamental corporate transactions requiring equity holder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of all of our directors, approval of merger transactions involving us and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Allen is not restricted from investing in, and has invested in, and engaged in, other businesses involving or related to the operation of cable television systems, video programming, high-speed Internet service, telephone or business and financial transactions conducted through broadband interactivity and Internet services. Mr. Allen may also engage in other businesses that compete or may in the future compete with us. Mr. Allen's control over our management and affairs could create conflicts of interest if he is faced with decisions that could have different implications for him, us and the other holders of Charter’s Class A common stock. For example, if Mr. Allen were to elect to exchange his Charter Holdco membership units for Charter’s Class B common stock pursuant to our existing exchange agreement with him, such a transaction would result in an ownership change for income tax purposes, as discussed above. See “— For tax purposes, there is significant risk that we will experience a deemed ownership change resulting in a material limitation on the use of a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards.” Further, Mr. Allen could effectively cause us to enter into contracts with another entity in which he owns an interest, or to decline a transaction into which he (or another entity in which he owns an interest) ultimately enters. Current and future agreements between us and either Mr. Allen or his affiliates may not be the result of arm's-length negotiations. Consequently, such agreements may be less favorable to us than agreements that we could otherwise have entered into with unaffiliated third parties. 29 We are not permitted to engage in any business activity other than the cable transmission of video, audio and data unless Mr. Allen authorizes us to pursue that particular business activity, which could adversely affect our ability to offer new products and services outside of the cable transmission business and to enter into new businesses, and could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation and Charter Holdco's limited liability company agreement provide that Charter and Charter Holdco and our subsidiaries, cannot engage in any business activity outside the cable transmission business except for specified businesses. This will be the case unless Mr. Allen consents to our engaging in the business activity. The cable transmission business means the business of transmitting video, audio (including telephone services), and data over cable television systems owned, operated, or managed by us from time to time. These provisions may limit our ability to take advantage of attractive business opportunities. The loss of Mr. Allen's services could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Mr. Allen is Chairman of Charter’s board of directors and provides strategic guidance and other services to us. If we were to lose his services, our growth, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The special tax allocation provisions of the Charter Holdco limited liability company agreement may cause us in some circumstances to pay more taxes than if the special tax allocation provisions were not in effect. Charter Holdco's limited liability company agreement provided that through the end of 2003, net tax losses (such net tax losses being determined under the federal income tax rules for determining capital accounts) of Charter Holdco that would otherwise have been allocated to us based generally on our percentage ownership of outstanding common membership units of Charter Holdco, would instead be allocated to the membership units held by Vulcan Cable III Inc. (“Vulcan Cable”) and CII. The purpose of these special tax allocation provisions was to allow Mr. Allen to take advantage, for tax purposes, of the losses generated by Charter Holdco during such period. In some situations, these special tax allocation provisions could result in our having to pay taxes in an amount that is more or less than if Charter Holdco had allocated net tax losses to its members based generally on the percentage of outstanding common membership units owned by such members. For further discussion on the details of the tax allocation provisions see “Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Income Taxes.” Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business. Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues. Cable operators are subject to, among other things: · rules governing the provision of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies; · rules and regulations relating to subscriber privacy; · limited rate regulation; · rules governing the copyright royalties that must be paid for retransmitting broadcast signals; · requirements governing when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain consent to carry a broadcast station; · requirements governing the provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers; · rules limiting our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring; · rules and regulations relating to provision of voice communications; · rules for franchise renewals and transfers; and · other requirements covering a variety of operational areas such as equal employment opportunity, technical standards, and customer service requirements. Additionally, many aspects of these regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. There are also ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of 30 some of our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face. Certain states and localities are considering new cable and telecommunications taxes that could increase operating expenses. Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination. The failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business. Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal. In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities. Approximately 15% of our franchises, covering approximately 20% of our video customers, were expired as of December 31, 2007. Approximately 7% of additional franchises, covering approximately an additional 8% of our video customers, will expire on or before December 31, 2008, if not renewed prior to expiration. The traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change as a result of various federal and state actions. Some of the state franchising laws do not allow us to immediately opt into statewide franchising until (i) we have completed the term of the local franchise, in good standing, (ii) a competitor has entered the market, or (iii) in limited instances, where the local franchise allows the state franchise license to apply. In many cases, state franchising laws, and their varying application to us and new video providers, will result in less franchise imposed requirements for our competitors who are new entrants than for us until we are able to opt into the applicable state franchise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisors have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements. Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future. A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area. Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Accordingly, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and create competition in market areas where none existed previously, resulting in overbuilds, which could adversely affect results of operations. Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems. In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us without obtaining a franchise from the local franchising authority. In addition, certain telephone companies are seeking authority to operate in communities without first obtaining a local franchise. As a result, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises. In a series of recent rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce franchising burdens for these new entrants. At the same time, a substantial number of states recently have adopted new franchising laws. Again, these new laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing operators. As a result of these new franchising laws and regulations, we have seen an increase in the number of competitive cable franchises or operating certificates being issued, and we anticipate that trend to continue. Local franchise authorities have the ability to impose additional regulatory constraints on our business, which could further increase our expenses. In addition to the franchise agreement, cable authorities in some jurisdictions have adopted cable regulatory ordinances that further regulate the operation of cable systems. This additional regulation increases the cost of operating our business. We cannot assure you that the local franchising authorities will not impose new and more 31 restrictive requirements. Local franchising authorities who are certified to regulate rates in the communities where they operate generally have the power to reduce rates and order refunds on the rates charged for basic service and equipment. Further regulation of the cable industry could cause us to delay or cancel service or programming enhancements, or impair our ability to raise rates to cover our increasing costs, resulting in increased losses. Currently, rate regulation is strictly limited to the basic service tier and associated equipment and installation activities. However, the FCC and Congress continue to be concerned that cable rate increases are exceeding inflation. It is possible that either the FCC or Congress will further restrict the ability of cable system operators to implement rate increases. Should this occur, it would impede our ability to raise our rates. If we are unable to raise our rates in response to increasing costs, our losses would increase. There has been considerable legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an á la carte basis, or to at least offer a separately available child-friendly “family tier.” It is possible that new marketing restrictions could be adopted in the future. Such restrictions could adversely affect our operations. Actions by pole owners might subject us to significantly increased pole attachment costs. Pole attachments are cable wires that are attached to utility poles. Cable system attachments to public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in favorable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service. The FCC previously determined that the lower cable rate was applicable to the mixed use of a pole attachment for the provision of both cable and Internet access services. However, in late 2007, the FCC issued an NPRM, in which it “tentatively concludes” that this approach should be modified. The change could affect the pole attachment rates we pay when we offer either data or voice services over our broadband facility. Any changes in the FCC approach could result in a substantial increase in our pole attachment costs. We may be required to provide access to our network to other Internet service providers which could significantly increase our competition and adversely affect our ability to provide new products and services. A number of companies, including independent Internet service providers, have requested local authorities and the FCC to require cable operators to provide non-discriminatory access to cable's broadband infrastructure, so that these companies may deliver Internet services directly to customers over cable facilities. In a 2005 ruling, commonly referred to as Brand X, the Supreme Court upheld an FCC decision making it less likely that any nondiscriminatory “open access” requirements (which are generally associated with common carrier regulation of “telecommunications services”) will be imposed on the cable industry by local, state or federal authorities. Notwithstanding Brand X, there has been continued advocacy by certain internet content providers and consumer groups for new federal laws or regulations to adopt so-called “net neutrality” principles limiting the ability of broadband network owners (like us) to manage and control their own networks. The proposals might prevent network owners, for example, from charging bandwidth intensive content providers, such as certain online gaming, music, and video service providers, an additional fee to ensure quality delivery of the services to consumers. If we were not allowed to manage our network as we believe best serves our customers, or were prohibited from charging heavy bandwidth intensive services a fee for expanding our network capacity or for use of our networks, we believe that it could impair our ability to provide high quality service to our customers or use our bandwidth in ways that would generate maximum revenues. In April 2007, the FCC issued a notice of inquiry regarding the marketing practices of broadband providers as a precursor to considering the need for any FCC regulation of internet service providers. In addition, legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress to mandate how providers manage their networks or to direct the FCC to conduct a study in that regard. Changes in channel carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us. Cable operators also face significant regulation of their channel carriage. We can be required to devote substantial capacity to the carriage of programming that we might not carry voluntarily, including certain local broadcast signals; local PEG programming; and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming (required channel capacity for use by persons unaffiliated with the cable operator who desire to distribute programming over a cable system). Under two recently released FCC orders, it appears that our carriage obligations regarding local broadcast programming and commercial leased access programming will increase substantially if these orders are not reversed in administrative reconsiderations or judicial appeals. The FCC recently adopted a new transition plan addressing the cable industry’s broadcast carriage obligations once the broadcast industry migration from analog to digital 32 transmission is completed in February 2009. Under the FCC’s transition plan, most cable systems will be required to offer both an analog and digital version of local broadcast signals for three years after the digital transition date. This burden could increase further if we are required to carry multiple programming streams included within a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage) or if our broadcast carriage obligations are otherwise expanded. The FCC also adopted new commercial leased access rules which dramatically reduce the rate we can charge for leasing this capacity and dramatically increase our associated administrative burdens. These regulatory changes could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that would maximize our revenue potential. It is possible that other legal restraints will be adopted limiting our discretion over programming decisions. Offering voice communications service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens, causing us to incur additional costs. We offer voice communications services over our broadband network and continue to develop and deploy VoIP services. The FCC has declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear. Expanding our offering of these services may require us to obtain certain authorizations, including federal and state licenses. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or authorizations that may not be favorable to us. The FCC has extended certain traditional telecommunications requirements, such as E911 and Universal Service requirements to many VoIP providers such as us. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 