Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in shares of our common stock or if you otherwise receive ownership of our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including those described below. We urge you to carefully consider these risk factors together with all of the other information included in this filing, the information incorporated in this filing, and other risks and uncertainties identified in Zapata’s other public reports, filings made with the SEC, press releases and public statements made by authorized officers of Zapata before you decide to purchase or make an investment decision regarding our common stock. The market liquidity for our common stock is relatively low and may make it difficult to purchase or sell our stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 19,184,456 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our stock during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2006 was approximately 12,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock could affect a stockholder’s ability to sell at a price satisfactory to that stockholder. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed an investment company and we may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. The composition of our remaining assets, which presently consists primarily of government securities, and our lack of an operating business, may cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. Since our November 28, 2006 sale of Omega shares, we have been relying on the one year transient investment company exemption under Rule 3s-2 of the 1940 Act. This exemption provides that a company will not be deemed an investment company for a one-year period, provided that such company has a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible (and in all events within one year), in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. A company demonstrates such intent via (1) its business activities, and (2) an appropriate resolution of the company’s board of directors recorded in its minute books. Our Board of Directors, in order to attempt to qualify for the safe harbor available under Rule 3a-2, adopted such a resolution, stating that we intend to be engaged primarily in a non-investment company activity as soon as is reasonably possible. We are actively engaged in carrying out the intent of our Board. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Rule 3a-2, or for any other reason are deemed an investment company, we would be in violation of the 1940 Act and would be prohibited from engaging in business or selling our securities and could be subject to civil and criminal actions for doing so. In addition, our contracts would be voidable and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Therefore, our failure to comply with Rule 3a-2 and our classification as an investment company for this or any other reasons would have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not complete an acquisition of an operating company within one year and another exemption from the 1940 Act is not available, we will need to seek an exemptive order from the SEC. If the SEC does not grant such an exemption, then we will need to either register under the 1940 Act or liquidate. If we are required to register under 5 Table of Contents the 1940 Act, we would become subject to a number of severe substantive restrictions on our operations, capital structure and management. Such restrictions would have a material adverse impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and would likely inhibit our ability to complete an acquisition. Since we already meet the ownership criteria of the personal holding company rules, we may have to pay a punitive tax if Zapata Corporate generates passive income in excess of operating expenses. Section 541 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), subjects a corporation, which is a “personal holding company” as defined in the IRC, to a 15% penalty tax on “undistributed personal holding company income” in addition to the corporation’s normal income tax. Generally, undistributed personal holding company income is based on taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, most notably a reduction for Federal incomes taxes. Personal holding company income is comprised primarily of passive investment income plus, under certain circumstances, personal service income. Zapata and its domestic subsidiaries could become subject to the penalty tax if (1) 60% or more of its adjusted ordinary gross income is personal holding company income and (2) 50% or more of its outstanding common stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of the taxable year. The Company believes that five or fewer of Zapata’s stockholders hold 50% or more of its outstanding common stock for purposes of IRC Section 541. However, as of December 31, 2006, Zapata and its domestic subsidiaries had no undistributed personal holding company income due to losses (other than capital gain on disposition of stock of a subsidiary) generated by the consolidated tax filing group and therefore has not recorded a personal holding company tax liability. There can be no assurance that Zapata will not be subject to this tax in the future that in turn may materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A change of ownership could reduce the benefits associated with the Company’s tax assets. A change of ownership pursuant to Section 382 of the IRC could significantly or possibly eliminate our ability to utilize our net operating losses and/or alternative minimum tax credits. An ownership change for this purpose is generally a change in the majority ownership of a company over a three year period. Our company is majority-owned by the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership. As a result of this ownership, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Our majority stockholder, the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership, has the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. In addition, any action requiring a simple-majority stockholder vote can be determined solely by our majority stockholder. This includes the ability to elect all members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, such as merger and acquisition decisions, and the election of directors, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This level of ownership may also have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Zapata and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that a nominating/corporate governance committee be in place that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that a compensation committee be in place that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. Though we have utilized exemptions (1) and (2) above, the Company currently has a Compensation Committee comprised entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have a compensation committee comprised entirely of independent directors, nor that we will continue to utilize the other exemptions while we are a controlled company. 6 Table of Contents Litigation defense and settlement costs may be material. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any pending litigation in which we are involved, or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not presently reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. Agreements and transactions involving former subsidiaries or related parties may give rise to future claims that could materially adversely impact our capital resources Throughout our history, we have entered into numerous transactions relating to the sale, disposal or spin-off of partially and wholly owned subsidiaries, including the recent sale of shares of Safety Components and Omega Protein. We may have continuing obligations pursuant to certain of these transactions, including obligations to indemnify other parties to agreements or be subject to risks resulting from these transactions. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, we were notified by Weatherford International Inc. (“Weatherford”) of a claim for reimbursement in connection with the investigation and cleanup of purported environmental contamination at two properties formerly owned by a non-operating Zapata subsidiary. The claim was made under an indemnification provision given by Zapata to Weatherford in a 1995 asset purchase agreement and relates to alleged environmental contamination that purportedly existed on the properties prior to the date of the sale. See Item 8, “Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies” for further description of the Weatherford claim. Additionally if Omega Protein experiences financial difficulties in the future, creditors of Omega Protein could bring claims against us alleging that Omega Protein did not receive fair value or reasonably equivalent value for the shares it repurchased from us and seek to have us return the purchase price we received for the shares plus interest. If any of these claims involving our former subsidiaries are brought, it could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, results of operation or cash flows. Additionally, in connection with our recent sale to private institutional investors of a portion of our Omega Protein shares, we agreed to reimburse Omega for liquidated damages that they may be required to pay to the purchasers if Omega Protein fails to continuously maintain such a registration statement as effective throughout a specified term and certain other conditions are met. See Item 1 “Business — Omega Protein” for further description of the liquidated damages provision of the letter agreement between Omega Protein and Zapata. If we are required reimburse Omega Protein under these circumstances, it could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, results of operation or cash flows. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a shareholder vote and may be material to the Company. Any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and since we have not yet identified any additional assets, property or business that we may acquire or develop, potential investors will have virtually no substantive information about any such new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in the company. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any future acquisitions, stockholders may not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, or access to any information about any new business until such time as a transaction is completed and we file a report with the SEC disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. For example, during September and October 2003, stockholders were informed through press releases and SEC filings that we had acquired a significant stake in Safety Components. Such transactions materially affected our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the Safety Components acquisition, we utilized approximately $47.8 million of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments to complete the acquisition. We may not be successful in identifying any suitable future acquisition opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any suitable future acquisitions, and, if an acquisition does occur, there is no assurance that it will be successful in enhancing our business or will increase our earnings or not materially adversely affect our financial condition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete suitable transactions or increase the cost that must be paid. Future acquisitions could also divert a substantial amount of our time, result in 7 Table of Contents reductions in earnings or may be difficult to integrate with existing operations or assets. We may, in the future, issue additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our stockholders. Depending upon the size and number of any future acquisitions, we may also borrow money to fund our acquisitions. In that event, our stockholders would be subject to the risks normally associated with leveraged transactions, including the inability to service the debt or the dedication of a significant amount of cash flow to service the debt, limitations on our ability to secure future financing and the imposition of certain operating restrictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 