ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Adverse economic conditions may harm our business and results of operations. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, the U.S. and global economies slowed dramatically as a result of a variety of serious problems, including turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions and the Big Three U.S. automakers, the state of the housing markets and volatility in fuel prices and worldwide stock markets. Given the magnitude and widespread nature of these nearly unprecedented circumstances, the U.S. and global 18 Table of Contents economies could remain significantly challenged in a recessionary state for an indeterminate period of time. While we are closely watching and evaluating the development of these conditions and taking steps to mitigate their effect on our operations, these economic conditions, which are beyond our control, could cause many of our existing and potential customers to reduce or discontinue their use of our products and services for some time and possibly be unable to meet contractual terms or payment obligations with us, which in turn would harm our business by adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the duration of these economic conditions, the extent to which they may worsen or the impact they will have on our customers, vendors or business. The economic recession negatively impacted our freight volumes in 2008 and 2009 and thus our income from operations and is expected to continue to adversely affect our results in 2010. Continuation or further worsening of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Changes in freight rates, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our logistics segment competes primarily against other domestic asset-based and non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our intermodal segment competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars, and containerized intermodal rail services offered by railroads and other intermodal service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to withstand better an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily than we can or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. There are a number of large companies competing in one or more segments of our industry, although the number of companies with a North American network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers are increasingly soliciting competitive bids for transportation services from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than we are. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, that provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. In the past and in the current economic recession, we have experienced downward pressure in the pricing of our intermodal and logistics services that has affected our revenues and operating results. In particular, our intermodal segment has offered lower rates to our customers to match lower rates offered by our railroad competitors in the intermodal business. Rate reductions by truckload carriers may also exert downward pressures on intermodal rates. Such rate reductions have in the past and could continue to adversely affect the yields of our intermodal product. Rate increases, particularly when taken by our railroad and motor transportation suppliers, may also have an adverse impact if our brokerage operations are unable to obtain commensurate price increases from our customers, on a timely basis or at all. Because transportation costs represent such a significant portion of our costs, even a relatively small increase in transportation costs, if we are unable to pass them through to customers, is likely to have a significant effect on our margins and operating income. Even variances between the time that the supplier assesses higher charges and the time we are able to begin collecting higher charges from our customers can deteriorate margins and operating income. Transportation rate increases may also have the impact of slowing overall demand for intermodal and other transportation services and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. Our new arrangements with Union Pacific which replaced significant portions of our Union Pacific legacy agreement are expected to adversely affect our revenues and may compress margins and reduce our results of operation. As discussed in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements and the MD&A, on November 3, 2009, we entered into agreements with Union Pacific under which, among other things, the rates, terms and 19 Table of Contents conditions of the legacy contract between Pacer and Union Pacific will no longer apply to our domestic big box shipments and rates payable by Pacer to Union Pacific for domestic big box shipments will gradually adjust over a two-year period to “market” rates. As anticipated, under these new arrangements with Union Pacific, the domestic big box business that we have historically handled for IMC customers on the Union Pacific network is transitioning away from us. Such business accounted for $248.8 million and $391.3 million of our total revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition to the loss of revenues from IMC big box traffic, the transition of these IMC volumes will change our historical equipment flows, requiring us to intensify efforts to match freight between origins and destinations and undertake further efforts to maintain equipment balance. Any failure or delay in managing our equipment flows would negatively affect our operating costs and our results of operations. Lower pricing to maintain equipment flows, higher empty repositioning charges and similar activities related to equipment balance may also compress margins. While the rates we will pay for domestic big box transportation on Union Pacific adjust to “market” levels over the next two years, to the extent that such rate adjustments cannot be passed through to our customers or competitive pressures and excess capacity continue to depress transportation rates, our margins and profitability would decrease. Similarly, to the extent that we are not able to reduce our employment levels and other costs to match the reduced revenues resulting from the transition out of the IMC domestic big box business, our business and results of operation will be further adversely affected. We will face additional adverse operational and financial consequences if we are unable to increase our market share among shippers, increase volumes and gain efficiencies in our local drayage operation, or achieve other strategic objectives to improve our performance and operating results. The transition of our east-west IMC big box container business volumes and the fleet sharing arrangements with Union Pacific will require changes to our systems and operations. While we maintain a daily focus on delivering seamless transportation services to our customers, these systems and operational changes could adversely impact orderly transportation processing, equipment location data integrity and operating efficiency, and, consequently, may have an adverse effect on customer relationships and resultant freight volumes. Our business and results of operations could be further adversely affected when the remaining portions of our legacy contract with Union Pacific expire in October 2011. In October 2011, the rates we pay under the legacy Union Pacific agreement for specified international customer (i.e., ocean carrier) shipments (20-, 40- and 45-foot containers) expire. Although the new arrangements with Union Pacific establish terms and conditions that will apply after October 11, 2011 to provide Pacer with a continued exclusive position on the Union Pacific network with regard to offering services to meet ocean carrier customers’ needs in conjunction with and in addition to the Union Pacific rail transportation service, our revenues and margins from the international line of business may decline. Revenues from this line of business accounted for 8.4%, 10.6% and 9.8% of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, we will continue to service our north/south Mexico automotive business under the terms of our legacy agreement with Union Pacific through its October 11, 2011 expiration date. While we are continuing to discuss with Union Pacific the terms and conditions, including rates, upon which we will be able to continue to provide our north/south automotive products and services beyond the term of the legacy agreement, no assurance can be given as to whether we will be able to agree with Union Pacific on any such new terms and conditions or whether any such new terms and conditions agreed upon will be as favorable as the terms and conditions provided to us under the legacy contract. As approximately 19% of our revenues in 2009 and 20% of our revenues in 2008 and 2007 were from customers in the automotive industry, our failure to enter into new arrangements with Union Pacific with respect to the continued provision of our north/south Mexico automotive business beyond the term of the legacy contract would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, any such new arrangements that we may enter into with Union Pacific with respect to this business, including with respect to rates, may be less favorable to us than the terms of our current arrangements under the legacy contract which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines as a result of the current economic downturn. Approximately 19% of our revenues in 2009 and 20% of our revenues in 2008 and 2007 were to customers in the automotive industry. Our automotive industry volumes declined significantly through the first half of 2009 reflecting the significant declines in sales of vehicles that automotive manufacturers globally have experienced because of the current economic downturn, deteriorating credit conditions, and volatile fuel costs. In particular, there has been significant concern regarding the long-term viability of the Big Three U.S. auto manufacturers, whose sales of vehicles have also shown significant erosion. Chrysler and General Motors each received emergency funding from the U.S. government in late 2008 and on April 30, 2009 and June 1, 2009, respectively, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. General Motors, which emerged from bankruptcy on July 10, 2009, has closed dozens of factories, dropped U.S. brands and shut down up to 40% of its network of 6,000 dealerships. Chrysler, which emerged from bankruptcy on June 10, 2009, idled most of its manufacturing operations during May 2009 pending completion of its alliance with Fiat. Notwithstanding any further federal support provided to the domestic automotive industry, the financial prospects of certain of our significant direct and indirect customers in the automotive industry remain highly uncertain. These extended automotive plant shutdowns and significant production cuts that occurred during the first half of 2009, greatly reduced shipments to and from affected plants. While our automotive volumes have increased since August 2009 from earlier lows due, in part, to the “cash for clunkers” program which ended in 2009, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue in the future. Besides the traffic reductions from the Big Three U.S. auto manufacturers, a large number of our customers are also suppliers of automotive products whose own viability and operating results are tied to the long-term viability and operating results of automotive manufacturers. Continued deterioration in the business of North American automobile manufacturers and suppliers would adversely affect our revenues, both from the automobile manufacturers and suppliers of automotive products, as well as our results of operations and cash flows. The borrowing base formula under our A&R Credit Agreement could limit the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder and may limit our flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions. On August 28, 2009, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “A&R Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender, the letter of credit issuers parties thereto, the lenders parties thereto, and Banc of America Securities, LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Book Manager. The A&R Credit Agreement provides for a $125 million revolving credit facility subject to increase to $175 million if certain conditions are met. While the A&R Credit Agreement is expected to adequately provide for our capital needs, the amount of borrowings available to us thereunder is subject to a daily determination which is based upon a detailed borrowing base formula which is calculated on a monthly basis by reference to the amount of our outstanding borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit), 85% of our eligible accounts receivable and certain equipment, an availability reserve and an availability block, each as defined in the A&R Credit Agreement. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of the borrowing base formula. As a result of the borrowing base formula in the A&R Credit Agreement, changes in the amount of our eligible account receivables and equipment or the value thereof could limit the amount of borrowings available to us under the facility and thus our liquidity. In addition, the amount of the availability reserve is subject to increase at the reasonable discretion of the administrative agent of the A&R Credit Agreement which could further limit the amount of our available borrowings and our liquidity. If outstanding borrowings (including outstanding letters of credit) exceed the available borrowing base at any time, we must immediately repay any borrowings in excess of the borrowing base (or in some cases cash collateralize outstanding letters of credit). In such event we may not have available other sources of liquidity to make such payment which would result in an event of default under the A&R Credit Agreement, allowing the lenders thereunder to declare all borrowings under the facility to be immediately 21 Table of Contents due and payable. Due to these terms, from time to time we may experience liquidity and capital constraints which could limit our flexibility to react to industry or economic conditions or changes in our business and operating results. Under the borrowing base calculation determined as of December 31, 2009, $45.2 million was available under the A&R Credit Agreement, net of $23.0 million in outstanding loans and $22.7 million of outstanding letters of credit and a $2.0 million availability block. Our debt agreements require us to maintain lockbox accounts and contain other operating and financial restrictions which may limit our business and financing activities. As required by the A&R Credit Agreement, our cash collections are deposited into lockbox accounts managed by our lenders. The deposited cash receipts are automatically swept to reduce our outstanding loan balance. Consequently, our ability to direct our funds to parties other than our lenders is compromised, and all of our operating working capital needs are financed through borrowings under the A&R Credit Agreement. If the lenders do not provide funding under the A&R Credit Agreement to the maximum extent permitted under the borrowing base formula due to the occurrence of an event of default or otherwise, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Along with the lockbox requirements, the A&R Credit Agreement includes other operating and financial restrictions and covenants that adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. For instance, the A&R Credit Agreement limits our annual capital expenditures to $6.5 million for 2010 and thereafter plus 50% of any prior years’ under-usage. Accordingly, maximum annual permitted capital expenditures for 2010 are $8.1 million. The A&R Credit Agreement also restricts or limits our ability to: (1) pay dividends and redeem or repurchase capital stock; (2) prepay, redeem or purchase debt; (3) incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (4) make loans and investments; (5) incur additional indebtedness; (6) amend or otherwise change debt and other material agreements; (7) engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; (8) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (9) change our primary business. Our credit facility also requires us to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio as more specifically described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The A&R Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and is secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future tangible and intangible assets, intercompany debt, stock or other equity interests owned by us, our domestic subsidiaries, and a portion of the stock or other equity interests of certain of our foreign subsidiaries. A breach of any of the representations, restrictions, covenants, or ratios in the A&R Credit Agreement could result in a default under that agreement. Other events of default include our failure to pay certain debt, the occurrence of a default with respect to any indebtedness of the company and its subsidiaries resulting in, or which permits, the acceleration, repurchase, repayment or redemption of such indebtedness, certain insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings, certain ERISA events, unpaid judgments over a specified amount, or a change in control as defined in the A&R Credit Agreement. A default under the A&R Credit Agreement (which would trigger a cross-default under some of our equipment leases) could, depending on actions taken by our lenders and lessors, have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. If we are in default under the A&R Credit Agreement and/or our other financing arrangements and our obligations thereunder were declared immediately due and payable, we would not have sufficient cash flow from operations or other available sources of liquidity to repay such obligations. Since our relationships with the major North American railroads are critical to our ability to provide intermodal transportation services, our business may be adversely affected by any adverse change to those relationships. We have important relationships with most of the major U.S. railroads supported by multi-year contracts and other operating arrangements. To date, the railroads have chosen to allow us, other intermodal marketing companies and other intermodal competitors to market their intermodal services and supply intermodal equipment to many beneficial cargo owners rather than marketing their services directly to all beneficial cargo owners. Under the new Union Pacific arrangements, we have agreed to reduce the 22 Table of Contents amount of IMC business handled by our Stacktrain operation in 48- and 53-foot domestic east-west equipment and to focus on offering our services directly to beneficial cargo owners. While we believe our new Union Pacific arrangements demonstrate Union Pacific’s commitment to us and other intermediaries, if one or more of the major railroads were to decide to change their strategy regarding our business and other intermodal intermediaries, the margins and volume of intermodal shipments we arrange would likely decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our multi-year rail contracts, which have varied expiration dates, contain favorable provisions that we believe enable us to provide competitive transportation rates and services to our customers. In particular, our new multi-year arrangements with Union Pacific automatically renew for one-year periods subject to certain conditions, our legacy contract with Union Pacific expires in October 2011, and our current CSX Intermodal contract expires in December 2014. Our loss of one or more of these contracts or failure to enter into renewal or replacement contracts with comparably favorable terms upon expiration of the current contract or contracts could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. While we expect to be able to continue to obtain competitive terms and conditions from our railroad vendors, no assurance can be given that such terms and conditions will be comparable to those in our current rail contracts. See “Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected when the remaining portions of our legacy agreement with Union Pacific expire in October 2011.” We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues. We are dependent upon rail, truck and ocean transportation services and transportation equipment such as chassis and containers provided by independent third parties, and, after transition to the new Union Pacific arrangement, our chassis and containers will be provided through Union Pacific, rather than directly procured and managed by us. Under the November 3, 2009 equipment arrangement, Union Pacific is responsible for the costs and management of the portion of the 53-foot chassis and containers leased by us estimated to be necessary to support the domestic east-west big-box traffic from third party intermodal marketing companies that are transitioning to Union Pacific. We retain operating control over the portion of our equipment fleet necessary to support our business consistent with our historical control over that equipment. We expect that our expanded access to Union Pacific’s equipment fleet will help accommodate short-term surges in demand for intermodal equipment. The new equipment arrangement also contains mechanisms that allow us to adjust the size of our fleet up or down in the future to address estimated changes in our equipment needs. Historically, procuring new chassis and containers, which are manufactured overseas, has required several months lead time, and we expect the schedule for obtaining additional equipment under the new Union Pacific arrangement to be similar to our historical experience. Although the new Union Pacific equipment arrangement is not intended to, and we do not expect that it will, affect our access to or control over the intermodal equipment necessary to support our business, we are still in the transition period under the new Union Pacific equipment arrangements and cannot predict its full impact. We, along with competitors in our industry, have experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping season in October and November. We also depend upon the rail carriers to provide sufficient rail slots on the train to transport our containers and access to the rail terminal for the delivery of our containers for shipment. From time to time, as with other users of Union Pacific’s rail service, we have not been able to obtain sufficient gate reservations for all containers to be shipped on a particular day and have had to wait for the gate reservation necessary to allow the container to enter the rail terminal and to be loaded on the train. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other providers on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the intermodal industry from time to time faces excess demand for the current rail network size, which causes network congestion and service delays and allows rail carriers to implement rate increases and to limit volumes. In addition, the trucking industry, including the local drayage community, has difficulty from time to time maintaining a consistent supply of qualified drivers. Shortages 23 Table of Contents such as this may cause our motor transportation suppliers to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing motor transportation, including the local cartage portion of an intermodal move, to our customers. Driver shortages and tight rail capacity could adversely impact our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal and highway service offerings. Network changes, lane closures, rail congestion, carrier consolidation and other reductions or deterioration in rail services could increase costs, decrease demand for our intermodal services and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for substantially all of the intermodal transportation services that we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. As a result, any reduction or elimination of service to a particular market may limit our ability to serve some of our customers. Furthermore, reductions in service by the railroads are likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our intermodal product. Increases in the cost of rail service reduce some of the advantages of intermodal transportation compared to truck and other transportation modes, and may reduce demand for our intermodal services. From 2003 to 2007, train resource shortages, severe weather, operating inefficiencies and high demand for rail transportation resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion and decreased equipment velocity. With slowing volumes in 2008 and 2009 combined with the railroad’s recent capital investments and operating improvements, rail transit times have improved. While we believe that our customer service capabilities, access to an extensive equipment fleet and network of personnel on-site at many terminals enables us to lessen the impact to our intermodal customers of these service disruptions, rail service issues increase our costs and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we operate on rail carriers that experience poor service performance, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected, and customers may switch to alternate providers to avoid intermodal transportation delays. In addition to reducing or eliminating routes and experiencing service disruptions, rail carriers may engage in further consolidations. Rail consolidations have caused service disruptions in the past and would further reduce service choices and bargaining power for rail customers. As a result, further consolidation among railroads might adversely affect intermodal transportation and our results of operations. Congestion, work stoppages, capacity shortages, weather related issues or other disruptions affecting the transportation network could adversely affect our operating results. As transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers, a disruption in one area or in one sector can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees. Negotiations that began in November 2004 between the railroads and rail unions for new collective bargaining agreements were concluded with the remaining unions (yardmasters, United Transportation Union and International Association of Machinists) in 2008. These union agreements resolve all wages, work rule and benefit issues through December 31, 2009 and continue until amended. In late 2009, negotiations began between the railroads and rail unions for new collective bargaining agreements. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage at one or more railroads. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage affecting providers of local trucking services to and from rail terminals. For example, during 2004, independent owner-operators providing local drayage services in parts of California refused to transport shipments to and from the rail facilities, leading to terminal congestion and a Union Pacific embargo on shipments to Northern California destinations which adversely affected our consolidated results of operations in the second quarter of 2004. In 2008, independent owner-operators in Northern California again refused to transport shipments to protest high fuel prices which negatively impacted our second quarter results. We have also experienced service disruptions due to other conditions, such as hurricanes, flooding and other adverse weather conditions, that hinder the railroads’ and local trucking companies’ ability to provide transportation services and negatively impact our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Work stoppages affecting seaports may also adversely impact our operations as we experienced in the second half of 2002 when West Coast ports were shut down as a result of a labor dispute with the longshoremen who offload freight that we subsequently transport. Third party international loadings, container repositioning revenue and railcar utilization revenues from our intermodal segment were adversely impacted during the port shutdown. The shutdown also impacted our local cartage and harbor drayage on the West Coast with lower volumes and our international freight forwarding operations with reduced ship sailings. Other work stoppages, slowdowns or other disruptions, such as those that could result from an act of terrorism or war, are beyond our control and could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our intermodal and logistics segments, particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass, such as the Los Angeles and Chicago gateways. Continued disruption in credit markets may adversely affect our customers and as a result our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Disruptions and constraints in the financial and credit markets, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, may adversely affect our business and our financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to purchase our services for an unknown, and perhaps lengthy, period. It may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. Furthermore, as we are moving products and services for other businesses, the tight credit markets may reduce funds available to consumers and businesses purchasing from our shipping customers and thereby reduce demand for our shipper’s products and services and their consequent need for our transportation services. Likewise, general concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause consumers and others to reduce the amount of products and services they purchase from our shipping customers, which would translate into reduced shipping volumes, even if consumers, businesses and shippers have cash or if credit is available to them. Our revenues could be reduced by the loss of major customers. We have derived, and believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from our largest customers. In 2009, Union Pacific affiliate(s) accounted for approximately 10% of our revenues and our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and prospects. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. We are exposed to claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss and damage and workers’ compensation. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has varied over the past five years, reflecting the level of our operations, the insurance environment for our industry, our claim experience and our self-retained (deductible) level. We have maintained self-retained (deductible) levels for our public liability exposures to optimize cost efficiency, reflecting our claims experience and the insurance environment for our industry. Our current deductible per occurrence for commercial automobile liability is $25,000. Our current deductible level for truckers’ commercial automobile liability is $500,000 for our Pacer Cartage operations and $100,000 for our PDS Trucking operations. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial general liability is $100,000. Our current workers compensation and employers liability deductible is $150,000 per incident. Our current deductible per occurrence for freight damage as an authorized motor carrier or warehouseman is $250,000, except for our cartage operations which carry a $10,000 deductible. We are also responsible for legal expenses within our deductible levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We currently accrue the estimated probable loss for incurred and reported but not yet paid claim amounts and expenses, and regularly evaluate and adjust our claim accruals to reflect actual experience. If the ultimate results differ from our estimates, we could incur costs in excess of accrued amounts. To cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels, we maintain insurance with insurance companies that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover 25 Table of Contents reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Clean truck requirements in California could adversely affect our business and profitability. The CARB has issued regulations that impact drayage trucks that operate within 80 miles of California’s ports and rail yards. As of January 1, 2010, trucks with model year 1994-2003 engines must be equipped with certified devices (e.g. particulate filters) to meet California and Federal emission standards. Trucks with engine model years 1993 and older are banned from entering California ports and intermodal rail yards commencing January 1, 2010. CARB plans to collect fines against the motor carrier and the owner-operator for entering a port or ramp with a non-compliant truck. On October 9, 2009, the Port of Oakland adopted a strict dirty truck ban effective January 1, 2010. Drayage trucks with engine year models earlier than 1994 will be banned at the Port of Oakland and trucks with engine year models between 1994 and 2003 will have to be retrofitted with particulate filters to enter the port. This truck ban goes beyond the requirements of the CARB regulations by establishing a turn-away requirement for non-compliant trucks at the port. On October 1, 2008, the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach began implementing clean truck plans that ban the use of pre-1989 trucks in the ports, require trucks accessing the ports to comply with phased-in emission standards and require trucking companies accessing the ports to sign concession agreements that impose a number of conditions. In February 2009, the ports began charging shippers a $70 per container fee for each 40-foot or longer container ($35 per 20-foot container) moving in and out of the ports by trucks that do not meet 2007 emissions standards. We have initiated programs that have transitioned our California owner-operator fleets to trucks that comply with the emission standards in order to allow continued access to the ports and ramps. Among other increased costs, we have been and will continue to be required to pay the owner-operators higher fees for their services due to expected demand for the limited supply of emission compliant tractors and the owner-operators’ need and desire to recover the increased lease or acquisition costs of such tractors. Our ability to meet our customers’ requirements, maintain our competitive position and preserve our profitability would be adversely impacted if we are unable to bring a sufficient number of emission-compliant trucks into our contractor fleet. Furthermore, our profitability will also be adversely affected if we are unable to collect higher charges from our customers to cover our increased costs. New Port of Los Angeles employee driver requirements could adversely affect our business and operations by requiring us to significantly change how we provide our services at the port or cause us to cease doing business at the port. In addition to the requirements described in the preceding risk factor, the port of Los Angeles clean truck plan has a requirement that would require trucking companies to increase the percentage of employee drivers servicing the port of Los Angeles from 20% by December 31, 2009 to 100% by December 31, 2013. While a federal court has ordered the port of Los Angeles to suspend enforcement of this and other provisions of the port of Los Angeles plan until litigation about these provisions is resolved, should this element of the port plan become effective, we would either have to change from our current owner-operator structure to an employee driver structure to service the port of Los Angeles or cease business at this location. Operating an employee fleet to service the port of Los Angeles and an independent owner-operator fleet for the rest of our local transportation network could result in operational inefficiencies, increased costs, and reduced profitability. In addition, no assurance can be given that other California ports will not impose similar employee driver requirements. 26 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things: · Our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; and · The future availability of borrowings under our credit facility or any successor facility, the availability of which may depend on, among other things, our complying with certain covenants. If our operating results and borrowings under our credit facility are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying investments, strategic alliances or capital expenditures, and may be required to sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or seek additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. There is no assurance that we can affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our customers who are also competitors could transfer their business to their non-competitors and our suppliers who are also competitors could provide preferences to others, including their own competing operations, which in both cases would decrease our profitability. As a result of our company operating in two distinct but related channels, we buy and sell transportation services from and to many companies with which we compete. For example, the Hub Group, NYK Logistics and Alliance Shippers, who together accounted for 6.4% of the 2009 revenues of our intermodal segment operations, are also competitors. As expected under the new arrangement with Union Pacific, most of these IMC customers that are also competitors are transitioning their domestic east-west big box traffic away from us, but we continue to offer our 20-foot, 40-foot and 48-foot container services and Mexico cross border services to these IMC customers. The loss of one or more of these customers will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our intermodal operations. In addition, rather than outsourcing their transportation logistics requirements to us, some of our customers could decide to provide these services internally, which could further adversely affect our business volumes and revenues. Similarly, our Stacktrain business competes in some cases with the intermodal service offerings of our rail transportation providers and their affiliated equipment provider operations. For example, CSX Intermodal and Union Pacific, two of our primary rail transportation providers, offer transcontinental and other long-haul intermodal transportation services that compete with our Stacktrain services. Our rail transportation providers may provide preferences to their internal service offerings or to other customers that are not competitors. These preferences could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our intermodal operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers. If we fail to develop, integrate, upgrade or replace our information technology systems, we may lose orders and customers or incur costs beyond our expectations. Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the information technologies that support our current services or any new services that we may introduce. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent our customers from placing orders, or cause us to lose orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future freight volumes will decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers. If we fail to hire qualified personnel to implement and maintain our information technology systems or fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes, meet the demands of our customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose orders and customers which could adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents As discussed above under “Item 1. Business—Information Technology,” after successfully implementing the finance and accounting modules licensed from SAP at all business units during 2008 and early 2009, in June 2009, we entered into an amendment to the software license agreement with SAP, under which the software licensed was limited to the financial and accounting applications. We are currently working to develop internally new transportation management and operations solutions to replace and enhance the systems annually provided by APL. The new solutions are expected to include equipment management, pricing, billing and tracking and tracing applications. We expect to complete the development and implementation efforts in 2010 and have notified APL that we intend to cease using its information technology services during the second quarter of 2010. If replacement systems do not operate as anticipated or contain unforeseen problems, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also experience operational difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. If we have difficulty attracting and retaining independent contractors and agents, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on the services of independent contractors and, to a lesser extent, agents to provide our local and port drayage services. We rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors as well as agents representing groups of trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although we believe our relationships with our independent contractors and agents are good, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them. Contracts with independent contractors and agents are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party. If an agent terminates its relationship with us, some customers and independent contractors with which such agent has a direct relationship may also terminate their relationship with us. We may have difficulty replacing our independent contractors and agents with equally qualified persons. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of agents and with trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of contractors, drivers and agents is limited, and therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies can increase the price we must pay to obtain services from contractors, drivers and agents. From time to time the trucking industry experiences a shortage of independent contractors resulting in increased compensation expenses to us and our competitors who also rely on them. In addition, because independent contractors are not employees, they may not be as loyal to our company, requiring us to pay more to retain their services and to implement aggressive recruitment efforts to offset turnover. If we are unable to attract or retain independent contractors and agents or need to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected and we could experience difficulty increasing our business volume. This adverse effect was seen in 2005 and 2006 as the cost of qualified driver acquisition and retention increased and negatively impacted our consolidated results of operations. Driver acquisition and retention issues remain a focus of our drayage operations, and we continue to implement programs to manage driver turnover. We, our suppliers and our customers are subject to changes in government regulation which could result in additional costs and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Although we primarily operate in the intermodal segment of the transportation industry, which has been essentially deregulated, changes in the levels of regulatory activity in the intermodal segment could potentially affect us and our suppliers and customers. Our trucking operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state and local agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and insurance requirements. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for our transportation services or require the outlay of significant additional costs. 28 Table of Contents Additional expenditures incurred by us, or by our suppliers and passed on to us, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. For instance, as discussed above under the heading “Regulation of Our Trucking and Intermodal Operations,” our Stacktrain operation is subject to DOT issued final regulations, which became partially effective in December 2009, regulating intermodal equipment providers like our Stacktrain unit by requiring them to establish a systematic inspection, repair and maintenance program for chassis and to provide a means to effectively respond to driver and motor carrier reports about chassis defects and deficiencies. Our annual incremental additional cost of the chassis maintenance and repair program required under the new regulations will be between $0.5 million and $1.0 million. Under the new equipment agreement with Union Pacific, compliance with these federal regulations for our 53-foot equipment being operated in the Union Pacific network will be the responsibility of Union Pacific. Similarly, a January 2007 ruling by the Surface Transportation Board found that the railroad’s practice of assessing fuel surcharges based on a percentage calculation of the base rate charged to the shipper was unreasonable. Although the ruling expressly does not apply to intermodal shipments, if the railroads change their methodology for assessing fuel surcharges on intermodal traffic to a per mile or other calculation, our Pacer Stacktrain and rail brokerage units may also be required to change their fuel surcharge methodology. Such a change may adversely affect our revenues. Other potential effects are more difficult to quantify as we generally pass through fuel surcharges to our customers but we may experience timing issues where we are unable to adjust charges to our customers to match fuel adjustments from our suppliers. Similar to the “clean truck” regulations adopted by CARB and the Ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland affecting our California drayage operations that are described above, we may be subject to climate change regulation, including restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases, including diesel exhaust. Such regulation could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including automakers and other manufacturers, and thereby affect demand for our transportation services. In addition, we have a substantial number of wholesale customers who provide ocean carriage of intermodal shipments. These wholesale customers and our own international freight forwarding operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal and state authorities. Regulatory changes in the ocean shipping or international freight forwarding industries could adversely affect our freight forwarding operations or have a material impact on the competitiveness or efficiency of operations of our various ocean carrier customers, which could adversely affect our business. As a publicly-traded company, we are also affected by new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rules and regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. Our efforts to comply with these continually evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities as well as the risks of noncompliance, including damage to our reputation with investors and our stock price. We are not able to accurately predict how new governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, will affect the transportation industry generally, or us in particular. Although government regulation that affects us and our competitors may simply result in higher costs that can be passed to customers, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our operating practices or services provided to our customers and may result in additional costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on us. A determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider 29 Table of Contents these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, worker’s compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry and materially adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to comply with or lose any required licenses, governmental regulators could assess penalties against us or issue a cease and desist order against our operations which are not in compliance. Our rail and highway brokerage and Stacktrain operations are licensed by the DOT as a broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT has established requirements for acting in this capacity, including insurance and surety bond requirements. Our local cartage operations are regulated as motor carriers by the DOT and various state agencies, subjecting these operations to insurance, surety bond, safety and other regulatory requirements. Our international NVOCC and freight forwarding operation is licensed as an ocean transportation intermediary by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission regulates ocean freight forwarders and non-vessel operating common carriers like us that contract for space with the actual vessel operator and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel operating common carriers must publish and maintain tariffs for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission may enforce these regulations by instituting proceedings seeking the assessment of penalties for violations of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. Our international freight forwarding operation is also licensed, regulated and subject to periodic audit as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. In other jurisdictions where we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators, and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Access to the funds available under our amended and restated asset-based credit facility and to the public capital markets could be adversely affected by the turmoil and uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. In addition, during 2008 and 2009 several large financial institutions have recently failed or became dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate. Although we believe that the banks under the A&R Credit Agreement have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of these banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail or otherwise fail to provide us funds as required under the A&R Credit Agreement, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under the A&R Credit Agreement was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our operations or capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) seeking to obtain commitments from the remaining banks in our lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, (ii) accessing the public capital markets, or (iii) delaying or reducing our capital expenditures or certain of our projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital, it is possible that any such alternatives in the current market would be on terms less favorable than under our amended and restated credit facility, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The public capital markets are also currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in both the equity and debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the 30 Table of Contents financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. These events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. Such conditions may exist for the foreseeable future. If we were required to access the public equity or debt capital markets to fund our operations and capital expenditures or any acquisitions that we may decide to make, given the current economic environment, no assurance can be given that we would be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. In addition, in view of the steep, sustained decline in the price of our common stock that began in 2008 and continued in 2009, our shareholders could suffer substantial dilution if we were required to access the equity capital markets given the current depressed price of our common stock. Changes in shipping patterns that reduce container volumes into West Coast ports could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. A significant portion of the intermodal shipments we handle are transcontinental moves originating from West Coast ports. For example, approximately 29% of our Stacktrain unit’s total volumes in 2009 (33% in 2008) were from the West Coast ports. Furthermore, our warehouse and distribution operation is concentrated in Southern California, and a significant portion of our local cartage revenues derive from our Southern California terminals. Reductions in West Coast shipping volume can therefore have a material adverse effect on our operations. The development of a Suez Canal route from China, the planned expansion of the Panama Canal that would allow an all-water route from China to East Coast ports, and/or onerous port and other West Coast regulations may result in the diversion of volumes from West Coast ports. Developments such as these and others that would reduce shipments into the West Coast ports could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If the markets in which we operate do not grow, our business could be adversely affected. The failure of the transportation and logistics industries and their segments, including the third-party logistics market, to continue to grow may have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding debt was $23.3 million. We have the ability to incur new debt, subject to borrowing base restrictions and other limitations in our credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: · Payments on our indebtedness will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; · A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could inhibit our ability to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; · We may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · Our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; · Our debt level reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; · Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; and · All of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations. 31 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel and qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be weakened which could adversely affect our operating results and ability to grow our business. We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition or cash flows. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. Because our senior management team has unique experience with our company and within the transportation industry, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operations. In addition to their unique experience, our management team has fostered key relationships with our suppliers and customers. Such relationships are especially important for an asset-light company such as ours. Loss of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We have an extensive relationship with APL Limited, and we depend on APL Limited for essential services. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if APL Limited failed or refused to provide such services or terminated the relationship. Pursuant to long-term contracts that expire in May 2019, APL Limited, the former owner of our Stacktrain services business, supplies us with chassis from its equipment fleet for the transport of international freight on behalf of other international shippers. In addition, we transport APL Limited’s international cargo on our Stacktrain network to locations in the United States using chassis and equipment supplied by APL Limited. The additional volume attributable to the transport of APL Limited’s international cargo contributes to our ability to obtain favorable provisions in our rail contracts. APL Limited pays us a fee for repositioning its empty containers within North America so that the containers can be reused in trans-Pacific shipping operations. In addition, APL Limited is currently providing us with computers, software and other information technology services necessary for the operation of our Stacktrain business under a long-term contract that expires in May 2019. We have replaced the finance and accounting modules of the APL Limited information technology services with SAP software and we are in the process of developing internally new transportation operations modules that are expected to replace the transportation operations modules of the information technology services currently provided by APL Limited. We expect to complete the development and implementation efforts in 2010 and have notified APL that we intend to cease using its information technology services during the second quarter of 2010. If any of our contracts with APL Limited were terminated or if APL Limited were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these contracts, or if the replacement systems to be implemented do not operate as anticipated or contain unforeseen problems, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Volatility in our revenue stream and resultant operational results may result in stock price declines. As discussed in this report, we are subject to a variety of events, such as economic conditions, customers’ business cycles, rate changes, rail network changes, severe weather and other rail service disruptions, strikes, interest rate and fuel cost fluctuations, and claims, over which we have little or no control. These factors may unexpectedly affect one or more quarters’ results. Any unexpected reduction in revenues or operating income for a particular quarter could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall significantly. If we make future acquisitions, they may be financed in a way that reduces our reported earnings or imposes additional restrictions on our business. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of 32 Table of Contents which might reduce our reported earnings or reduce earnings per share and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, any financing that we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business. If we are unable to identify, make and successfully integrate acquisitions, our profitability could be adversely affected. Identifying, acquiring and integrating businesses require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to customer service and market share. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. These risks include: · unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; · difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations and technologies; · the need to manage a significantly larger and more geographically dispersed business; · impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; · the cost of integrating and documenting the internal controls of the acquired business and potential material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · diversion of management’s attention from ongoing development of our business or other business concerns; · potential loss of customers; · failure to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; and · the use of substantial amounts of our available cash. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past and we may consider acquiring businesses in the future that provide complementary services to those we currently provide or that expand our geographic presence. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire them on reasonable terms or at all, and a failure to do so could limit our ability to expand our business. While we believe that we have sufficient financial and management resources and experience to successfully conduct our acquisition activities and integrate the acquired businesses into our operations, our acquisition activities involve more difficult integration issues than those of many other companies because the value of the companies we acquire comes mostly from their business relationships, rather than their tangible assets. The integration of business relationships poses more of a risk than the integration of tangible assets because relationships may suddenly weaken or terminate, or key personnel responsible for those relationships may depart. Further, logistics businesses that we have acquired and that we may acquire in the future compete with many customers of our Stacktrain operations, and these customers may shift their business elsewhere if they believe our logistics operations receive favorable treatment from our Stacktrain operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate any business that we may acquire in the future, we could experience difficulties with customers, personnel or others, and our acquisitions might not enhance our competitive position, business or financial prospects. As we expand our services internationally, we may become subject to international economic and political risks. A portion of our business is providing services internationally. International revenues account for approximately 10% to 15% of our revenues on an annual basis. Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and 33 Table of Contents foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Significant expansion of our services in foreign countries will expose us to the increased effect of foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because we have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable could be prevented. Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: · Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt; · A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors; · Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws; · Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; · Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and · Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We have suspended payment of the dividend on our common stock. Should we not declare and pay cash dividends in the future, our stock price could be negatively impacted. We paid quarterly dividends of $0.15 per common share from October 2005 through January 2009. However, in view of the challenges we face in the current economic environment and in order to conserve cash, in February 2009 our Board of Directors decided to discontinue the payment of dividends. The declaration of future dividends by the company and the amount thereof is in the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, compliance with financial ratios and other limitations in the A&R Credit Agreement, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors including prevailing and forecasted economic conditions. We cannot predict when we might resume paying dividends in the future, if ever, or whether any such dividends will be at the same level as in the past. The suspension of our 34 Table of Contents dividend and the failure to pay dividends in the future may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our A&R Credit Agreement prohibits our payment of dividends prior to August 28, 2010 and thereafter imposes significant conditions which we may not be able to satisfy on our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, we may not be able to begin paying dividends again for the foreseeable future. A determination that we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting or that our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner which could negatively impact our stock price and damage our reputation with stakeholders. As discussed in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2009, our management team under the supervision and direction of our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as a result of certain material weakness described in such reports in our internal controls over financial reporting. While in connection with the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures at December 31, 2009, we determined that such material weaknesses had been fully remediated and that our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures at December 31, 2009 were effective, the failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting may cause our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to be ineffective and any determination that a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting exists would cause our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to be ineffective. Any such a conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner and could negatively impact our stock price and our reputation with investors, customers and vendors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 