Item 1A. Risk Factors Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the information contained elsewhere in this report, before you make a decision to invest in our company. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Risk Related to our Historical Stock Option Granting Practices We cannot predict the outcome of the SEC's formal investigation of our past stock option granting practices. The investigation has required, and may continue to require, significant management time and attention, as well as additional accounting and legal expense, and could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctive and monetary relief from us. The SEC's formal investigation of our past stock option practices is ongoing. We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and have provided the staff with extensive documentation relating to the Special Committee's investigation and our internal review of our historical financial statements. The SEC investigation and requests for information have required significant management attention and resources. The period of time necessary to resolve the SEC investigation is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. We have incurred substantial expenses with third parties for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with these matters and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. While we will continue to cooperate with the SEC regarding this matter, there can be no assurance that our efforts to resolve the SEC's investigation will be successful and we cannot predict whether we will be able to reach any type of resolution with the SEC. Further, there is no assurance that other regulatory inquiries will not be commenced by other U.S. federal, state or foreign regulatory agencies and as a result, we are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the Special Committee investigation and the related restatement, which would also lead to substantial expenses that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Following the Special Committee investigation, two derivative civil action lawsuits were brought, purportedly on our behalf, which have required and may continue to require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome against our management, which could require us to pay substantial judgments or settlements pursuant to any indemnification obligations that we may have with them, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the Special Committee investigation, two derivative civil claims were filed, purportedly on our behalf, against certain of our current and former officers and directors. See Item 3 (Legal Proceedings), "Actions Pursuant to Options Investigation" below. The suits were consolidated into a single suit on June 15, 2007, alleging violations of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 304 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) and raisingd state law claims including unjust enrichment, breaches of fiduciary trust and waste of corporate assets. The court dismissed the case in December 2007, holding that the plaintiffs failed to assert viable federal claims under either Section 14(a) or SOX Section 304. The court also dismissed the remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds. Plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration in late December 2007 and we filed an opposition to this motion in January 2008 and we are currently awaiting the court's decision. If the motion for reconsideration is denied, plaintiffs could still re-file the state law claims in state court or in federal court asserting diversity jurisdiction. 15 The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and in defending themselves, our management's attention may be diverted from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an unfavorable outcome of such litigation could require us to incur significant legal expenses and substantial judgments or settlements pursuant to any indemnification obligations that we may have with our officers and directors, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our total liabilities in either of these actions if we are obligated to indemnify (and advance legal expenses to) former or current directors or officers in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements, and Delaware law. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in either of these matters. Furthermore, the underwriters of our directors and officers insurance policy may seek to rescind or otherwise deny coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund the indemnification amounts owed to such directors and officers. We have incurred and our option holders have incurred tax liabilities which has caused us to, and may continue to cause us to, pay taxes, penalties and interest for the late payment of our withholding tax obligations and payments to our affected option holders to offset against their additional tax liabilities. As a result of determining revised measurement dates for certain of our stock options, we have recorded payroll withholding tax related adjustments for certain options previously classified as ISO grants under the Internal Revenue Code. Such stock options were determined to have been granted with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the revised measurement date. As a result, such stock options do not qualify for ISO tax treatment. The disqualification of ISO classification and the resulting conversion to non-qualified stock option status results in withholding taxes on the exercise of such stock options. We may have to pay taxes, penalties and interest for the late payment of withholding tax obligations on past exercises of these non-qualified stock options and make payments to our affected employees to offset their additional tax liabilities. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations may fluctuate and the market price of our common stock may fall. Our revenue and results of operations have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including, among others: •the amount of traffic we are able to sell to our customers, and their decisions on whether to route traffic over our network; •increased competitive pricing pressure in the international long distance market from emerging and established integrated carriers some of which are much larger and have greater financial resources than we do; •the percentage of traffic that we are able to carry over the Internet rather than over the more costly traditional public-switched telephone network; •the loss of arbitrage opportunities resulting from declines in international settlement rates or tariffs; •our ability to negotiate lower termination fees charged by our local providers; •our continuing ability to negotiate competitive costs to connect our network with those of other carriers and Internet backbone providers; 16 •fraudulently sent or received traffic which is unbillable, for which we may be liable; •credit card fraud in connection with our web-based prepaid offering; •capital expenditures required to expand or upgrade our network; •changes in call volume among the countries to which we complete calls; •the portion of our total traffic that we carry over more lucrative routes could decline, independent of route-specific price, cost or volume changes; •technical difficulties or failures of our network systems or third party delays in expansion or provisioning system components; •our ability to manage distribution arrangements and provision of retail offerings, including card printing, marketing, usage tracking, web-based offerings and customer service requirements, and resolution of associated disputes; •our ability to manage our traffic on a constant basis so that routes are profitable; •our ability to collect from our customers; and •currency fluctuations and restrictions in countries where we operate. Because of these factors and others, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be significantly lower than the estimates of public market analysts, investors or our own estimates. Such a discrepancy could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and adversely affect our profitability. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and gross profit to achieve our revenue and profitability goals in the long term if telecommunications carriers and other communications service providers are reluctant to use our services in sufficient volume. If the market for international wholesale VoIP telephony and new services does not develop as we expect, or develops more slowly than expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our customers may be reluctant to use our VoIP services for a number of reasons, including: •perceptions that the quality of voice transmitted over the Internet is low; •perceptions that VoIP is unreliable; •our inability to deliver traffic over the Internet with significant cost advantages; •development of their own capacity on routes served by us; •an increase in termination costs of international calls; •uncertainty regarding the regulatory status of VoIP services; and •uncertainty regarding potential patent infringement related to certain VoIP services. The growth of our core wholesale Trading business depends on carriers and other communications service providers generating an increased volume of international voice and fax traffic and selecting our network to carry at least some of this traffic. Similarly, the growth of Retail services we offer depends on these factors as well as acceptance in the market of the brands that we service, including their respective rates, terms and conditions. 17 We may not be able to collect amounts due to us from our customers and we may have to disgorge amounts already paid. Some of our customers have closed their businesses or filed for bankruptcy while owing us significant amounts for services we have provided to them in the past. Despite our efforts to collect these overdue funds, we may never be paid. The bankruptcy court may require us to continue to provide services to these companies during their reorganizations. Other customers may discontinue their use of our services at any time and without notice, or delay payments that are owed to us. Additionally, we may have difficulty in collecting amounts from them. Although we have internal credit risk policies to identify companies with poor credit histories, we may not effectively manage these policies and may provide services to companies that refuse to pay. The risk is even greater in foreign countries, where the legal and collection systems available may not be adequate or impartial for us to enforce the payment provisions of our contracts. Our cash reserves will be reduced and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to collect amounts from our customers. We have received claims including lawsuits from estates of bankrupt companies alleging that we received preferential payments prior to such companies' bankruptcy filing. We may be required to return amounts received from entities that subsequently become bankrupt. We intend to employ all available defenses in contesting such claims or, in the alternative settle such claims. The results of any suit or settlement may have a material adverse affect on results of operations. We may increase costs and risks in our business to the extent we rely on third parties. Vendors. We rely upon third-party vendors to provide us with the equipment, software, circuits, and other facilities that we use to provide our services. For example, we purchase a substantial portion of our VoIP equipment from Cisco Systems. We may be forced to try to renegotiate terms with vendors for products or services that have become obsolete. Some vendors may be unwilling to renegotiate such contracts, which could affect our ability to continue to provide services and consequently render us unable to generate sufficient revenues for our business. Parties that Maintain Phone and Data Lines and Other Telecommunications Services. Our business model depends on the availability of the public Internet and traditional telephone networks to transmit voice and fax calls. Third parties maintain and own these networks, other components that comprise the public Internet, and business relationships that allow telephone calls to be terminated over the public switched telephone network. Some of these third parties are telephone companies. They may increase their charges for using these lines at any time and thereby increase our expenses. They may also fail to maintain their lines properly, fail to maintain the ability to terminate calls, or otherwise disrupt our ability to provide service to our customers. Any such failure that leads to a material disruption of our ability to complete calls or provide other services could discourage our customers from using our network, which could adversely effect our results of operations. Local Communications Service Providers. We maintain relationships with local communications service providers in many countries, some of whom own the equipment that translates calls from traditional voice networks to the Internet, and vice versa. We rely upon these third parties both to provide lines over which we complete calls and to increase their capacity when necessary as the volume of our traffic increases. There is a risk that these third parties may be slow, or may fail, to provide lines, which would affect our ability to complete calls to certain destinations. We may not be able to continue our relationships with these local service providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Because we rely upon entering into relationships with local service providers to expand into additional countries, we may not be able to increase the number of countries to which we provide service. Finally, any technical difficulties that these providers suffer, or difficulties in their relationships with companies that manage the public switched telephone network, could affect our ability to transmit calls to the countries that those providers help serve. 18 Strategic Relationships. We depend in part on our strategic relationships to expand our distribution channels and develop and market our services. Strategic relationship partners may choose not to renew existing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In general, if we lose these key strategic relationships, or if we fail to maintain or develop new relationships in the future, our ability to expand the scope and capacity of our network and services provided, and to maintain state-of-the-art technology, would be materially adversely affected. Distributors of prepaid calling cards to retail outlets. We make arrangements with distributors to market and sell prepaid calling cards to retail outlets. In some cases, we rely on these distributors to print cards, prepare marketing material, activate accounts, track usage and other data, and remit payments collected from retailers. There is a risk that distributors will not properly perform these responsibilities, comply with legal requirements, or pay us monies when due. We may not have adequate contractual or credit protections against these risks. There is also a risk that we will be ineffective in our efforts to implement new systems, policies covering customer care, disclosure, privacy, and certain technical and business processes. The result of any attendant difficulties may have a material impact on our business. We may not be able to succeed in the intensely competitive market for our wholesale Trading services or for prepaid calling services. We compete in our wholesale Trading business principally on quality of service and price. In recent years, prices for international long distance telephone services have been declining as a result of deregulation and increased competition. We face competition from the wholesale service operations of major telecommunications carriers, including AT&T, British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Verizon/MCI and Qwest, as well as new emerging carriers. We also compete with Internet protocol and other VoIP service providers who route traffic to destinations worldwide. VoIP service providers that presently focus on retail customers may in the future enter the wholesale market and compete with us. If we can not offer competitive prices and quality of service our business could be materially adversely affected. The market for prepaid calling services is extremely competitive. Hundreds of providers offer calling card products and services. We have relatively recently begun offering prepaid calling card and related web-based services and have little prior experience in these businesses. Advertising and pricing practices by some providers in the prepaid calling card industry are aggressive and can be misleading which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Many of our prepaid calling services are marketed primarily to immigrant communities. If changes in immigration policy or other factors, including general economic conditions cause a reduction in the foreign born population living in the U.S. our business may suffer. If we do not successfully maintain and expand our distribution channel and enter geographic markets in which our rates, fees, surcharges, country services, and our other products and service characteristics can successfully compete, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to downward pricing pressures and a continuing need to renegotiate overseas rates. As a result of numerous factors, including increased competition and global deregulation of telecommunications services, prices for international long distance calls have been decreasing. This downward trend of prices to end-users has caused us to lower the prices we charge communications service providers and calling card distributors for call completion on our network. If this downward pricing pressure continues, we may not be able to offer our VoIP services at costs lower than, or competitive with, the traditional voice network and VoIP services with which we compete. Moreover, in order for us to lower our prices, we have to renegotiate rates with our overseas local service providers who complete calls for us. We may not be able to renegotiate these terms favorably enough, or fast enough, to allow us to continue to offer services in a particular country on a cost-effective basis. The continued downward pressure on prices and our failure to renegotiate favorable terms in a particular 19 country could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our network and business profitably. A variety of risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. Because we provide many of our services internationally, we are subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries. In particular, in order to provide services and operate facilities in some countries, we have established subsidiaries or other legal entities or may have forged relationships with service partners or entities set up by our employees. We also rely on our own employees to maintain certain functions of our Internet central offices and, in some cases, to deploy and operate our smaller points of presence installations. Associated risks include: •uncertainty regarding or unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements relating to Internet access or VoIP; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; •difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •compliance with varying tax, consumer protection, telecommunications, and other laws; •compliance with tax, employment, securities, immigration, labor and other laws for employees living and traveling, or conducting business, abroad, which may subject them or us to criminal or civil penalties; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; •unreliable government power to protect our rights and those of our employees; •exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws in foreign countries; •other obligations or restrictions, including, but not limited to, criminal penalties against us or our employees incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary or other entity in another country; •individual criminal exposure of our employees, some of whom have been sought by law enforcement agencies abroad to answer for the activities of the Company; •the personal safety of our employees and their families who at times have received threats of, or who may in any case be subject to, violence, and who may not be adequately protected by legal authorities or other means; and •inadequate insurance coverage to address these risks. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to maintain profitable operations. We may undertake strategic acquisitions or dispositions, or may be the target of similar strategic initiatives, that could be difficult to integrate or could damage our business. In addition to the KPN Transaction and the proposed transaction with TDC, the leading telecommunications company in Denmark, that we announced on January 14, 2008, we may acquire businesses and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, services and technologies. We may also be subject to, or participate in, strategic activities by others that result in a transfer of control of our assets or control of our outstanding shares of stock. We may need to raise 20 additional funds through public or private debt, equity financing or issue more shares to affect such activities, which may result in dilution for shareholders and the incurrence of indebtedness. We may have difficulty integrating any additional businesses into our existing business and the process of any acquisitions or subsequent integration could divert management's attention and expend our resources. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. If we are unable to effectively integrate any new business into our overall business operations, our costs may increase and our business results may suffer significantly. We may need to sell existing assets or businesses in the future to generate cash or focus our efforts on making our core Wholesale Trading business profitable. As with many companies in our sector that have experienced rapid growth in recent years, we may need to reach profitability in one market before entering another. In the future, we may need to sell assets to cut costs or generate liquidity. If we are not able to keep up with rapid technological change in a cost-effective way, the relative quality of our services could suffer. The technology upon which our services depend is changing rapidly. Significant technological changes could render the hardware and software that we use obsolete, and competitors may begin to offer new services that we are unable to offer. If we are unable to respond successfully to these developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, we may not be able to offer competitive services and our business results may suffer. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our network adequately and cost-effectively to accommodate any future growth. Our business requires that we handle a large number of international calls simultaneously. As we expand our operations, we expect to handle significantly more calls. If we do not expand and upgrade our hardware and software quickly enough, we would not have sufficient capacity to handle the increased traffic and growth in our operating performance would suffer as a result. Even with such expansion, we may be unable to manage new deployments or utilize them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to lost growth opportunities, any such failure could adversely affect customer confidence in The iBasis Network and could result in us losing business. We may not be able to maintain our routing, reporting, and billing systems and related databases adequately and cost-effectively to accommodate our continuing needs. Our business requires that we track enormous volumes of data so that we can manage traffic, margin, revenue, and customer accounts. We constantly measure and upgrade our technical capabilities, and develop new tools to address our needs. If we do not maintain these systems or modify them in an appropriate manner, or bill our customers properly, our business will be negatively affected. Single points of failure on our network may make our business vulnerable. We operate three Network Operations Centers as well as numerous Internet central offices and other points of presence throughout the world. In some cases, we have designed redundant systems, provided for excess capacity, and taken other precautions against platform and network failures as well as facility failures relating to power, air conditioning, destruction, or theft. Nonetheless, some of our infrastructure and functionality, including those associated with certain components of our Retail business, operate as a single point of failure, meaning, failures of the type described may prohibit us from offering services at all at any given time. The potential of such a failure may discourage others from using our network, which may adversely impact our business. 21 We depend on our current personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining the skilled employees we need to execute our business plan. Our future success will depend, in large part, on the continued service of our key management and technical personnel. If any of these individuals or others we employ are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business, financial positon, results of operations or cash flows could suffer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our personnel. We will need to retain skilled personnel to execute our plans. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel. Past reductions in our workforce or restrictions on salary increases or payment of bonuses may make it difficult to motivate and retain employees and contractors, which could affect our ability to deliver our services in a timely fashion and otherwise negatively affect our business. We can not ensure that our existing capital will be sufficient to meet our requirements for the future and a failure to obtain necessary additional capital could jeopardize our operations. We may need additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and corporate infrastructure, expand our network, increase the range of services we offer and respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative equity ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to grow or maintain our operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters The telecommunications industry is subject to domestic governmental regulation and legal uncertainties and other laws that could materially increase our costs and prevent us from executing our business plan. Under FCC rules, services classified as telecommunications services have been subject to regulation, whereas services classified as information or enhanced services have been largely exempt from regulation, including the requirement to pay access charges. We have taken the position that our wholesale Trading services are enhanced services that are exempt from traditional regulation that applies to telecommunications services. While the FCC has traditionally maintained that information service providers, including VoIP providers, do not provide telecommunications services for regulatory purposes, various entities have challenged this policy at the state and federal levels and the FCC has begun to regulate certain aspects of various types of VoIP services. For example, in 2004, the FCC concluded that long distance calls that begin and end as regular calls but use IP to transport some portion of the call are telecommunications services. As indicated above, the FCC also concluded that prepaid calling cards that utilize IP-transport are telecommunications services, not information services. Additionally, the FCC has issued a variety of orders that have imposed additional regulatory obligations on certain VoIP providers. For example, the FCC found that certain VoIP services that interconnect with the traditional public telephone network ("Interconnected VoIP Services") must begin making Universal Service Fund, or USF, contributions, provide 911 and Telecommunications Relay Services, comply with certain law enforcement intercept obligations, and also comply with other regulatory reporting requirements. To date, however, the agency has declined to determine whether Interconnected VoIP Service is a telecommunications service or an information service. As a result of these and other rulings, aspects of our operations may currently be, or may become, subject to state or federal regulations governing licensing, USF funding, interstate or intrastate access 22 charges, advertising, disclosure of confidential communications or other information, excise and other fees, taxes and surcharges, U.S. embargos and other reporting or compliance requirements. We hold a license to provide interstate and international telecommunications services from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining appropriate regulatory authority, and filing appropriate tariffs, regarding the Retail business in certain states. Additional aspects of our operations may currently be, or become, subject to state or federal regulations governing licensing, universal service funding, advertising, disclosure of confidential communications or other information, excise taxes, U.S. embargos and other reporting or compliance requirements. In the event of an audit from the federal Universal Service Administrator or complaint from a local access provider, we could be subject to arrearages for USF contributions or access charges. Although we believe that our interstate wholesale Trading products qualify as information services that are exempt from federal USF contributions, we have, as of January 1, 2005, reported our Wholesale Trading revenues to the FCC as telecommunications revenues, while reserving our rights. We have offered our prepaid international calling card services on a wholesale basis to international carrier customers, and others, some of which provide these services to end-user customers, enabling them to call internationally over The iBasis Network. We participate in selling and marketing of calling cards through a network of distributors on a retail basis. We also offer a web-based retail prepaid calling card offering. Although the calling cards are primarily used for international calling, we have not blocked the ability of users to place interstate and intrastate calls and we have not in every instance required our wholesale customers or distributors to provide evidence of their compliance with U.S. and state regulations. The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires that payphone service providers be compensated for all completed calls originating from payphones in the United States. The FCC's rules require the last switched-based carrier to compensate payphone providers, and further require that all carriers in the call chain implement a call-tracking system, utilize it to identify such calls, provide an independent audit of the adequacy of such system, and provide a report on these matters to the FCC and others in the call chain, unless alternative contractual arrangements have been made. We have indirectly paid, and intend to continue paying, payphone service providers as part of our prepaid calling card business. We have contracted with a clearinghouse to remit funds directly to payphone service providers for calls originating from payphones utilizing our prepaid calling cards. For all other types of traffic related to our wholesale Trading business, we believe that we are not responsible for payphone compensation, but rather that the carrier that precedes us bears that responsibility. In accordance therewith, for traffic related to our wholesale Trading business, we have in most cases sought to apportion such responsibility by contract. We have also been questioned by regulators about our offerings. Under current standards and recent FCC decisions, the FCC and state regulatory authorities may not agree with our positions. If they do not, we could be penalized, become subject to regulation at the federal and state level for both our wholesale Trading business, in addition to our Retail business, and could become subject to licensing and bonding requirements, federal and state fees and taxes, and other laws, all of which could materially affect our business. We are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations regarding consumer protection, advertising, and disclosure regulations. These rules could substantially increase the cost of doing business domestically and in any particular state. Law enforcement authorities may utilize their powers under consumer protection laws against us in the event we do not meet legal requirements in a given jurisdiction which could either increase costs or prevent us from doing business there. 23 We are subject to other laws related to our business dealings that are not specifically related to telecommunications regulation. As an example, the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or OFAC, administers the United States' sanctions against certain countries. OFAC rules restrict many business transactions with such countries and, in some cases, require that licenses be obtained for such transactions. We may currently, or in the future, transmit telephone calls between the U.S. and countries subject to U.S. sanctions regulations and undertake other transactions related to those services. We have undertaken such activities via our network or through various reciprocal traffic exchange agreements to which we are a party. We have received licenses from OFAC to send traffic to some countries and, if necessary, will remain in contact with OFAC with regard to other transactions. Failure to obtain proper authority could expose us to legal and criminal liability. Foreign government telecommunications regulation could also affect our costs. Our Retail and wholesale Trading services are offered in foreign jurisdictions. The regulation of VoIP differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We cannot be certain that we or our partners and distributors are in compliance with all of the relevant regulations and laws in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate at any given point in time. As a result, changes in regulation in foreign jurisdictions or failure to comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations can subject us to enforcement action and penalties that could negatively affect our business and ability to continue to provide services in these foreign jurisdictions. In addition, in numerous countries where we operate or plan to operate, we may be subject to many local laws and regulations that, among other things, may restrict or limit the ability of telecommunications companies to provide telecommunications services in competition with state-owned or state-sanctioned dominant carriers. Other international governmental regulation and legal uncertainties and other laws could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive, or subject us or our employees to legal or criminal liability. Many countries currently prohibit or limit competition in the provision of traditional voice telephony services. In some of those countries, licensed telephony carriers as well as government regulators and law enforcement authorities have questioned our legal authority and/or the legal authority of our service partners or affiliated entities and employees to offer our services. We may face similar questions in additional countries. Our failure to qualify as a properly licensed service provider, or to comply with other foreign laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including subjecting us or our employees to taxes and criminal or other penalties and/or by precluding us from, or limiting us in, enforcing contracts in such jurisdictions. It is also possible that countries may apply to our activities laws relating to services provided over the Internet, including laws governing: •sales and other taxes, including payroll-withholding applications; •user privacy; •pricing controls and termination costs; •characteristics and quality of products and services; •qualification to do business; •consumer protection; •cross-border commerce, including laws that would impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions; 24 •copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and •claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials, including defamation, negligence and the failure to meet necessary obligations. If foreign governments or other bodies begin to impose related restrictions on our services or otherwise enforce criminal or other laws against us, our affiliates or our employees, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The termination cost for the termination of calls to mobile networks in Germany are subject to regulatory control. A decision by the German regulatory authority to reduce the mobile termination rates, or MTRs, effective in November 2006 has been challenged by the affected mobile network operators, or MNOs, in the German courts. Although we are not a party to these proceedings, under our contracts with these MNOs, a decision by the German court to repeal the reduction of the MTR on a retroactive basis would permit the MNOs to retroactively increase the MTR charged to us for the termination of calls to their networks. Although we have taken steps to allow us to pass these potential cost increase on to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so in all cases. We can not at this time assess the likelihood that German court will retroactively repeal the reduction in the MTRs or the amount of any potential loss that we might suffer as a result. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitive position would be adversely affected. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. Unauthorized third parties may copy our services or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. End-user license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of any licensed program may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. We may seek to patent certain processes or equipment in the future. We do not know if any of our pending patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Our services might be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We believe that we do not infringe upon the valid proprietary rights of any third party. Nonetheless, we have received claims that our products or brands, or those of our retail prepaid calling card distributors, infringe valid patents or trademarks. Such claims, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation could divert management efforts. It is also possible that such claims might be asserted successfully against us in the future. Our ability to provide services depends on our freedom to operate. That is, we must ensure that we do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others or have licensed all such rights. A party making an infringement claim could secure a substantial monetary award or obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block our ability to provide services in the United States or abroad. In addition, the assertion of infringement claims by others against our customers, including those providing consumer VoIP services, could adversely affect our business. 25 We rely on a variety of technologies, primarily software, which is licensed from third parties or is freely available. Continued use of certain technology by us requires that we purchase new or additional licenses from third parties or, in some cases, avail ourselves of "shareware" or otherwise available open source code. We may not be able to obtain those third-party licenses needed for our business or the technology and software that we do have may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss or inability to maintain or obtain upgrades to any such technology or software could result in delays or breakdowns in our ability to continue developing and providing our services or to enhance and upgrade our services. Risks Related to the Internet and Internet Telephony Industry If the public Internet infrastructure is not adequately maintained, we may be unable to maintain the quality of our services and provide them in a timely and consistent manner. Our future success will depend upon the maintenance of the public Internet infrastructure, including a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliability and timely Internet access and services. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it and its performance or reliability may decline thereby impairing our ability to complete calls and provide other services using the Internet at consistently high quality. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of failures of portions of its infrastructure or otherwise. Future outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to complete calls and provide other services. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, including security, cost, ease of use and access, intellectual property ownership and other legal liability issues, remain unresolved and could materially and adversely affect both the growth of Internet usage generally and our business in particular. Finally, important opportunities to increase traffic on The iBasis Network will not be realized if the underlying infrastructure of the Internet does not continue to be expanded to more locations worldwide. Network security breaches could adversely affect our operations. We currently have practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and security of our network. Nevertheless, from time to time we have experienced fraudulent activities whereby perpetrators have disguised themselves as our customers and transmitted traffic to us, or have disguised themselves as us and transmitted traffic to our communications service providers and other service providers for termination. While we have undertaken steps to thwart such fraud, including revamping our securities procedures and capabilities and alerting other members of the industry as well as law enforcement personnel, such actions may not be sufficient and financial exposure and reputational damage from fraudulent activities could materially adversely affect us. Undetected defects in our technology could adversely affect our operations. Our technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called "bugs". Although we regularly test our software and systems extensively, we can not ensure that our testing will detect every potential bug. Any such bug could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to provide our services using the Internet may be adversely affected by computer vandalism. If the overall performance of the Internet is seriously downgraded by website attacks, failure of service attacks, or other acts of computer vandalism or virus infection, our ability to deliver our 26 communication services over the Internet could be adversely impacted, which could cause us to have to increase the amount of traffic we have to carry over alternative networks, including the more costly public switched telephone network. In addition, traditional business interruption insurance may not cover losses we could incur because of any such disruption of the Internet. While some insurers are beginning to offer products purporting to cover these losses, we do not have any of this insurance at this time. Risks Related to the KPN Transaction We may not be able to timely and successfully integrate KPN's international wholesale voice business with our operations, and thus we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the KPN Transaction. Integration of KPN's international wholesale voice business into our business is a complex, time consuming and costly process. Difficulties we may encounter include: •operational interruptions or the loss of key employees, customers or suppliers; •the risks related to operating a significantly larger company with operations in geographic areas in which we have not previously operated; and •risks related to consolidating our corporate and administrative functions. We are also exposed to other risks that are commonly associated with similar transactions, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may be material, and diversion of management's attention. As a result, the anticipated benefits of the KPN Transaction, including anticipated synergies, may not be fully realized and our busness may be materially and adversely affected. KPN owns a majority of the shares of our common stock, and we are a controlled company within the meaning of Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. Because KPN is deemed to beneficially own, in the aggregate, more than 50% of our common stock, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(5). As a result, the Company is exempt from Nasdaq rules that require listed companies to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the Board of Directors, (ii) the compensation of executive officers determined by a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors, and (iii) a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors elect or recommend director nominees for selection by the Board of Directors. Furthermore, as part of the transaction, our by-laws were amended to provide KPN certain board representation rights and certain veto rights. As a result of these changes, and KPN's majority holdings, KPN has the ability to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. We cannot make assurances that the interests of KPN will be consistent with the interests of other holders of our common stock, or that KPN will vote its shares of common stock, or exercise its veto rights, in a manner that benefits other holders of our common stock. Finally, KPN's ownership of 51% of the shares of our common stock could discourage the acquisition of our common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of our common stock. KPN may sell all or a substantial portion of its shares at any time in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have not entered into any lock-up agreement with KPN. As a result, the sale, or the possibility of a sale, by KPN of all or a substantial number of its shares in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares or the 27 possibility of such a sale also could make it more difficult for us to sell our common stock or other equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could also discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if that change in control would be beneficial to stockholders: •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock, without stockholder approval; •our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; •a supermajority of votes of our stockholders is required to amend key provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; •our by-laws contain provisions limiting who can call special meetings of stockholders; •our stockholders may not take action by written consent; and •our stockholders must provide specified advance notice to nominate Directors or submit stockholder proposals. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. 28 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: •expectations regarding our ability to expand our market share in our wholesale Trading business; •our expectations regarding the number of customers that will use our wholesale Trading and Retail services; •our expectations regarding the future market demand for our wholesale Trading and Retail services; •the size of our market; •our business strategy; •the focus of our marketing efforts; •the establishment, development and maintenance of relationships with strategic partners; •our estimates regarding obligations associated with our leased facilities; •our expectations regarding the outcome of the legal proceedings that we are currently a party to, including our defense strategies, the results of negotiations and settlements in such legal proceedings and our estimates regarding the amount of fees and losses to be paid in connection with such legal proceedings; •our expectations that the VoIP market offers significant growth potential for us; •our plan to absorb or pass along future regulatory fees; •our estimates regarding the retroactive Universal Service Fund and other fees we will be charged; and •our liquidity. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the Risk Factors set forth under Item 1A. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we 29 specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 