Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, which we believe include all the material risks to our business, together with the information contained elsewhere in this report, before you make a decision to invest in our company. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Risks Related to Our Operations Our results of operations may fluctuate and the market price of our common stock may fall. Our revenue and results of operations have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, some of which are not in our control, including, among others: · the amount of traffic we are able to sell to our customers, and their decisions on whether to route traffic over our network; · increased competitive pricing pressure in the international long distance market; · the percentage of traffic that we are able to carry over the Internet rather than over the more costly traditional public-switched telephone network; · loss of arbitrage opportunities resulting from declines in international settlement rates or tariffs; 13 · our ability to negotiate lower termination fees charged by our local providers; · our continuing ability to negotiate competitive costs to connect our network with those of other carriers and Internet backbone providers; · fraudulently sent or received traffic which is unbillable, for which we may be liable; · credit card fraud in connection with our web-based prepaid offering; · capital expenditures required to expand or upgrade our network; · changes in call volume among the countries to which we complete calls; · the portion of our total traffic that we carry over more lucrative routes could decline, independent of route-specific price, cost or volume changes; · technical difficulties or failures of our network systems or third party delays in expansion or provisioning system components; · our ability to manage distribution arrangements and provision of retail offerings, including card printing, marketing, usage tracking, web-based offerings and customer service requirements, and resolution of associated disputes; · our ability to manage our traffic on a constant basis so that routes are profitable; · our ability to collect from our customers; and · currency fluctuations and restrictions in countries where we operate. Because of these factors and others, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be significantly lower than the estimates of public market analysts, investors or our own estimates. Such a discrepancy could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and adversely affect profitability. We may never generate sufficient revenue and gross margin to become profitable if telecommunications carriers and other communications service providers or others are reluctant to use our services or do not use our services, including any new services, in sufficient volume. If the market for VoIP telephony and new services does not develop as we expect, or develops more slowly than expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our customers may be reluctant to use our VoIP services for a number of reasons, including: · perceptions that the quality of voice transmitted over the Internet is low; · perceptions that VoIP is unreliable; · our inability to deliver traffic over the Internet with significant cost advantages; · development of their own capacity on routes served by us; and · an increase in termination costs of international calls. The growth of our core Trading business depends on carriers and other communications service providers generating an increased volume of international voice and fax traffic and selecting our network to carry at least some of this traffic. Similarly, the growth of Retail services we offer depends on these factors as well as acceptance in the market of the brands that we service, including their respective rates, terms and 14 conditions. If the volume of international voice and fax traffic and associated or other retail services fail to increase or decrease and these parties or other customers do not employ our network or otherwise use our services, our profitability will be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to collect amounts due to us from our customers and we may have to disgorge amounts already paid. Some of our customers have closed their businesses or filed for bankruptcy owing us significant amounts for services we have provided to them in the past. Despite our efforts to collect these overdue funds, we may never be paid. The bankruptcy court may require us to continue to provide services to these companies during their reorganizations. Other customers may discontinue their use of our services at any time and without notice, or delay payments that are owed to us. Additionally, we may have difficulty in collecting amounts from them. Although we have internal credit risk policies to identify companies with poor credit histories, we may not effectively manage these policies and may provide services to companies that refuse to pay. The risk is even greater in foreign countries, where the legal and collection systems available may not be adequate or impartial for us to enforce the payment provisions of our contracts. Our cash reserves will be reduced and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to collect amounts from our customers. We have received claims including lawsuits from estates of bankrupt companies alleging that we received preferential payments prior to such companies’ bankruptcy filing. We may be required to return amounts received from subsequent bankrupt entities. We intend to employ all available defenses in contesting such claims or, in the alternative settle such claims. The results of any suit or settlement may have a material adverse affect on our business. We may increase costs and risks in our business to the extent we rely on third parties. Vendors. We rely upon third-party vendors to provide us with the equipment, software, circuits, and other facilities that we use to provide our services. For example, we purchase a substantial portion of our VoIP equipment from Cisco Systems. We may be forced to try to renegotiate terms with vendors for products or services that have become obsolete. Some vendors may be unwilling to renegotiate such contracts, which could affect our ability to continue to provide services and consequently render us unable to generate sufficient revenues for our business. Parties that Maintain Phone and Data Lines and Other Telecommunications Services. Our business model depends on the availability of the Internet and traditional telephone networks to transmit voice and fax calls. Third parties maintain and own these networks, other components that comprise the Internet, and business relationships that allow telephone calls to be terminated over the public switched telephone network. Some of these third parties are telephone companies. They may increase their charges for using these lines at any time and thereby increase our expenses. They may also fail to maintain their lines properly, fail to maintain the ability to terminate calls, or otherwise disrupt our ability to provide service to our customers. Any such failure that leads to a material disruption of our ability to complete calls or provide other services could discourage our customers from using our network, which could adversely effect our revenues. Local Communications Service Providers. We maintain relationships with local communications service providers in many countries, some of whom own the equipment that translates calls from traditional voice networks to the Internet, and vice versa. We rely upon these third parties both to provide lines over which we complete calls and to increase their capacity when necessary as the volume of our traffic increases. There is a risk that these third parties may be slow, or may fail, to provide lines, which would affect our ability to complete calls to certain destinations. We may not be able to continue our relationships with these local service providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Because we rely upon entering into relationships 15 with local service providers to expand into additional countries, we may not be able to increase the number of countries to which we provide service. Finally, any technical difficulties that these providers suffer, or difficulties in their relationships with companies that manage the public switched telephone network, could affect our ability to transmit calls to the countries that those providers help serve. Strategic Relationships. We depend in part on our strategic relationships to expand our distribution channels and develop and market our services. Strategic relationship partners may choose not to renew existing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In general, if we lose these key strategic relationships, or if we fail to maintain or develop new relationships in the future, our ability to expand the scope and capacity of our network and services provided, and to maintain state-of-the-art technology, would be materially adversely affected. Distributors of prepaid calling cards to retail outlets. We make arrangements with distributors to market and sell prepaid calling cards to retail outlets. In some cases, we rely on these distributors to print cards, prepare marketing material, activate accounts, track usage and other data, and remit payments collected from retailers. There is a risk that distributors will not properly perform these responsibilities, comply with legal requirements, or pay us monies when due. We may not have adequate contractual or credit protections against these risks. There is also a risk that we will be ineffective in our efforts to implement new systems, policies covering customer care, disclosure, and privacy, and certain technical and business processes. The result of any attendant difficulties may have a material impact on our business. We may not be able to succeed in the intensely competitive market for our Trading services. We compete in our Trading business principally on quality of service and price. In recent years, prices for long distance telephone services have been declining as a result of deregulation and increased competition. We face competition from major telecommunications carriers, including AT&T, British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Verizon/MCI and Qwest, as well as new emerging carriers. We also compete with Internet protocol and other VoIP service providers who route traffic to destinations worldwide. VoIP service providers that presently focus on retail customers may in the future enter the wholesale market and compete with us. If we can not offer competitive prices and quality of service our business could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to succeed in the intensely competitive market for prepaid calling services. The market for prepaid calling services is extremely competitive. Hundreds of providers offer calling card products and services. We have relatively recently begun offering prepaid calling card and related web-based services and have little prior experience in these businesses. If we do not successfully maintain and expand our distribution channel and enter geographic markets in which our rates, fees, surcharges, country services, and our other products and service characteristics can successfully compete, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to downward pricing pressures and a continuing need to renegotiate overseas rates. As a result of numerous factors, including increased competition and global deregulation of telecommunications services, prices for international long distance calls have been decreasing. This downward trend of prices to end-users has caused us to lower the prices we charge communications service providers and calling card distributors for call completion on our network. If this downward pricing pressure continues, we may not be able to offer VoIP services at costs lower than, or competitive with, the traditional voice network services with which we compete. Moreover, in order for us to lower our prices, we have to renegotiate rates with our overseas local service providers who complete calls for us. We may not be able to renegotiate these terms favorably enough, or fast enough, to allow us to continue to offer services in a particular country on a cost-effective basis. The continued downward pressure on prices and 16 our failure to renegotiate favorable terms in a particular country could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our network and VoIP business profitably. A variety of risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. Because we provide many of our services internationally, we are subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries. In particular, in order to provide services and operate facilities in some countries, we have established subsidiaries or other legal entities or may have forged relationships with service partners or entities set up by our employees. We also rely on our own employees to maintain certain functions of our Internet Central Offices and, in some cases, to deploy and operate our smaller Points of Presence installations. Associated risks include: · unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements relating to Internet access or VoIP; · economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; · difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · tax, consumer protection, telecommunications, and other laws; · compliance with tax, employment, securities, immigration, labor and other laws for employees living and traveling, or conducting business, abroad, which may subject them or us to criminal or civil penalties; · foreign taxes including withholding of payroll taxes; · foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; · unreliable government power to protect our rights and those of our employees; · exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws in foreign countries; · other obligations or restrictions, including, but not limited to, criminal penalties against us or our employees incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary or other entity in another country; · individual criminal exposure of our employees, some of whom have been sought by law enforcement agencies abroad to answer for the activities of the Company; · the personal safety of our employees and their families who at times have received threats of, or who may in any case be subject to, violence, and who may not be adequately protected by legal authorities or other means; and · inadequate insurance coverage to address these risks. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. International governmental regulation and legal uncertainties and other laws could limit our ability to provide our services, make them more expensive, or subject us or our employees to legal or criminal liability. Many countries currently prohibit or limit competition in the provision of traditional voice telephony services. In some of those countries, licensed telephony carriers as well as government regulators and law enforcement authorities have questioned our legal authority and/or the legal authority of our service 17 partners or affiliated entities and employees to offer our services. We may face similar questions in additional countries. Our failure to qualify as a properly licensed service provider, or to comply with other foreign laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including subjecting us or our employees to taxes and criminal or other penalties and/or by precluding us from, or limiting us in, enforcing contracts in such jurisdictions. It is also possible that countries may apply to our activities laws relating to services provided over the Internet, including laws governing: · sales and other taxes, including payroll-withholding applications; · user privacy; · pricing controls and termination costs; · characteristics and quality of products and services; · qualification to do business; · consumer protection; · cross-border commerce, including laws that would impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions; · copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and · claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials, including defamation, negligence and the failure to meet necessary obligations. If foreign governments or other bodies begin to impose related restrictions on VoIP or our other services or otherwise enforce criminal or other laws against us, our affiliates or our employees, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The telecommunications industry is subject to domestic governmental regulation and legal uncertainties and other laws that could materially increase our costs and prevent us from executing our business plan. We are not licensed to offer traditional telecommunications services in any U.S. state and we have not filed tariffs for any service at the FCC or at any state regulatory commission. Aspects of our operations may currently be, or may become, subject to state or federal regulations governing licensing, universal service funding, access charges, advertising, disclosure of confidential communications or other information, excise taxes, U.S. embargos and other reporting or compliance requirements. While the FCC to date has maintained an informal policy that information service providers, including VoIP providers, are not telecommunications carriers for regulatory purposes, various entities have challenged this idea before the FCC and at various state government agencies. In 2004, the FCC ruled that certain traffic AT&T carried in part utilizing an Internet protocol format was nonetheless regulated telecommunications for which terminating access charges were due. The FCC subsequently found that AT&T’s prepaid calling cards, which AT&T had claimed as an enhanced, non-regulated offering, constituted traditional telecommunications for which universal service subsidies are due. In so doing, the FCC imposed such liability retroactively, and ruled that similarly situated carriers must also fulfill reporting and contribution requirements for universal service funding. The FCC is proceeding over several related topics, including regulation of prepaid calling cards and the extent that Internet protocol capabilities insulate such offerings from traditional regulation, the extent to which wholesale and other VoIP offerings may be subject to access charges or eligible for interconnection with incumbent networks, 18 and proceedings covering IP-enabled services and Universal Service subsidies more generally. Adverse rulings or rulemakings could subject us to licensing requirements and additional fees and subsidies. We believe that iBasis qualifies for the enhanced service provider (“ESP”) exemption for federal universal service fund contributions because it provides a VoIP information service. Nevertheless, while reserving rights to claim the ESP exemption, we have decided to contribute to the federal universal service fund as of January 1, 2005 on our interstate VoIP transport revenues. The IRS and the U.S. Department of Treasury have issued a notice of proposed rulemaking suggesting that VoIP calls may be subject to a 3% federal excise tax which could affect our competitiveness. We have offered our prepaid international calling card services on a wholesale basis to international carrier customers, and others, some of which provide these services to end-user customers, enabling them to call internationally over The iBasis Network from the U.S. We participate in selling and marketing such cards through a network of distributors on a retail basis. Further, we also offer a web-based prepaid card offering. Although the calling cards are not primarily used for domestic interstate or intrastate use, we have not blocked the ability to place such calls or required our wholesale customers or distributors to show evidence of their compliance with U.S. and state regulations. As a result, there may be domestic use of the cards. Because we provide services that are primarily wholesale and/or international and utilize an enhanced technology, we do not believe that we are subject to federal or state telecommunications regulation for the possible uses of these services described here and, accordingly, we have not obtained state licenses, filed state or federal tariffs, posted bonds, or undertaken other possible compliance steps. We have also been questioned by regulators about our offerings. Under current standards or as-yet undetermined rules, the FCC and state regulatory authorities may not agree with our position. If they do not, we could become subject to regulation at the federal and state level for these services, and could become subject to licensing and bonding requirements, and federal and state fees and taxes, and other laws, all of which could materially affect our business. We are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations regarding consumer protection, advertising, and disclosure regulations. These rules could substantially increase the cost of doing business domestically and in any particular state. Law enforcement authorities may utilize their powers under consumer protection laws against us in the event we do not meet legal requirements in a given jurisdiction which could either increase costs or prevent us from doing business there. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires that payphone service providers be compensated for all completed calls originating from payphones in the United States. When calling cards are used, the FCC’s prior rules required the first switch-based carrier to compensate the payphone service provider, but subsequently adopted rules require the last switched-based carrier to do so, and further require that all carriers in the call chain implement a call-tracking system, utilize it to identify such calls, provide an independent audit of the adequacy of such system, and provide a report on these matters to the FCC and others in the call chain. We maintain that as an international VoIP provider, we sell an information service. We therefore claim that we are not a “carrier” for regulatory purposes and, in any case, our Internet-based systems do not rely on traditional long distance switches. Nonetheless, we have indirectly paid, and intend to continue paying, payphone service providers as part of our prepaid calling card business. We have contracted with a clearinghouse to remit funds directly to payphone service providers for calls originating from payphones utilizing our prepaid calling cards. For all other types of traffic related to our wholesale business, we believe that we are not responsible for payphone compensation, but rather that the carrier that precedes us is. In accordance therewith, for wholesale traffic, we have in most cases sought to apportion such responsibility by contract. 19 We are subject to other laws related to our business dealings that are not specifically related to telecommunications regulation. As an example, the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or OFAC, administers the United States’ sanctions against certain countries. OFAC rules restrict many business transactions with such countries and, in some cases, require that licenses be obtained for such transactions. We may currently, or in the future, transmit telephone calls between the U.S. and countries subject to U.S. sanctions regulations and undertake other transactions related to those services. We have undertaken such activities via our network or through various reciprocal traffic exchange agreements to which we are a party. We have received licenses from OFAC to send traffic to some countries and, if necessary, will remain in contact with OFAC with regard to other transactions. Failure to obtain proper authority could expose us to legal and criminal liability. If we are not able to keep up with rapid technological change in a cost-effective way, the relative quality of our services could suffer. The technology upon which our services depend is changing rapidly. Significant technological changes could render the hardware and software that we use obsolete, and competitors may begin to offer new services that we are unable to offer. If we are unable to respond successfully to these developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, we may not be able to offer competitive services and our business results may suffer. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our network adequately and cost-effectively to accommodate any future growth. Our VoIP business requires that we handle a large number of international calls simultaneously. As we expand our operations, we expect to handle significantly more calls. If we do not expand and upgrade our hardware and software quickly enough, we will not have sufficient capacity to handle the increased traffic and growth in our operating performance would suffer as a result. Even with such expansion, we may be unable to manage new deployments or utilize them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to lost growth opportunities, any such failure could adversely affect customer confidence in The iBasis Network and could result in us losing business outright. We may not be able to maintain our routing, reporting, and billing systems and related databases adequately and cost-effectively to accommodate our continuing needs. Our business requires that we track enormous volumes of data so that we can manage traffic, margin, revenue, and customer accounts. We constantly measure and upgrade our technical capabilities, and develop new tools to address our needs. If we do not maintain these systems or modify them in an appropriate manner, or bill our customers properly, our business will be negatively affected. Single points of failure on our network may make our business vulnerable. We operate two NOCs as well as numerous ICOs throughout the world. In some cases we have designed redundant systems, provided for excess capacity, and taken other precautions against platform and network failures as well as facility failures relating to power, air conditioning, destruction, or theft. Nonetheless, some of our infrastructure and functionality, including that associated with certain components of our retail business, operate as a single point of failure, meaning, failures of the type described may prohibit us from offering services. We depend on our current personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining the skilled employees we need to execute our business plan. Our future success will depend, in large part, on the continued service of our key management and technical personnel. If any of these individuals or others we employ are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We do not carry key person life insurance on our personnel. 20 We will need to retain skilled personnel to execute our plans. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel. Past workforce reductions have resulted in reallocations of employee duties that could result in employee and contractor uncertainty and dissatisfaction. Reductions in our workforce or restrictions on salary increases or payment of bonuses may make it difficult to motivate and retain employees and contractors, which could affect our ability to deliver our services in a timely fashion and otherwise negatively affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitive position would be adversely affected. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. Unauthorized third parties may copy our services or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. End-user license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of any licensed program may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. We may seek to patent certain processes or equipment in the future. We do not know if any of our pending patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. We believe that we do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third party. Nonetheless, we have received claims that our products or brands, or those of our retail prepaid calling card distributors, infringe valid patents or trademarks. Such claims, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation could divert management efforts. It is also possible that such claims might be asserted successfully against us in the future. Our ability to provide services depends on our freedom to operate. That is, we must ensure that we do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others or have licensed all such rights. A party making an infringement claim could secure a substantial monetary award or obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block our ability to provide services in the United States or abroad. We rely on a variety of technologies, primarily software, which is licensed from third parties or is freely available. Continued use of certain technology by us requires that we purchase new or additional licenses from third parties or, in some cases, avail ourselves of “shareware” or otherwise available open source code. We may not be able to obtain those third-party licenses needed for our business or the technology and software that we do have may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss or inability to maintain or obtain upgrades to any such technology or software could result in delays or breakdowns in our ability to continue developing and providing our services or to enhance and upgrade our services. We may undertake strategic acquisitions or dispositions, or may be the target of similar strategic initiatives, that could be difficult to integrate or could damage our business. We may acquire additional businesses and technologies that complement or augment our existing businesses, services and technologies. We may also be subject to or participate in strategic activities by others that result in a transfer of control of our assets or control of our outstanding shares of stock. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing or issue more shares to effect such activities, which may result in dilution for shareholders and the incurrence of indebtedness. We may have difficulty integrating any additional businesses into our existing business and the process of any acquisitions or subsequent integration could divert management’s attention and expend our resources. 21 We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. If we are unable to effectively integrate any new business into our overall business operations, our costs may increase and our business results may suffer significantly. We may need to sell existing assets or businesses in the future to generate cash or focus our efforts on making our core Trading business profitable. As with many companies in our sector that have experienced rapid growth in recent years, we may need to reach profitability in one market before entering another. In the future, we may need to sell assets to cut costs or generate liquidity. Risks Related to the Internet and Internet Telephony Industry If the Internet infrastructure is not adequately maintained, we may be unable to maintain the quality of our services and provide them in a timely and consistent manner. Our future success will depend upon the maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, including a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliability and timely Internet access and services. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it and its performance or reliability may decline thereby impairing our ability to complete calls and provide other services using the Internet at consistently high quality. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of failures of portions of its infrastructure or otherwise. Future outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to complete calls and provide other services. Moreover, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, including security, cost, ease of use and access, intellectual property ownership and other legal liability issues, remain unresolved and could materially and adversely affect both the growth of Internet usage generally and our business in particular. Finally, important opportunities to increase traffic on The iBasis Network will not be realized if the underlying infrastructure of the Internet does not continue to be expanded to more locations worldwide. Network security breaches could adversely affect our operations. We currently have practices, policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and security of our network. Nevertheless, from time to time we have experienced fraudulent activities whereby perpetrators have disguised themselves as our customers and transmitted traffic to us, or have disguised themselves as us and transmitted traffic to our communications service providers and other service providers for termination. While we have undertaken steps to thwart such fraud, including revamping our securities procedures and capabilities and alerting other members of the industry as well as law enforcement personnel, such actions may not be sufficient and financial exposure and reputational damage from fraudulent activities could materially adversely affect us. Undetected defects in our technology could adversely affect our operations. Our technology is complex and is susceptible to errors, defects or performance problems, commonly called “bugs”. Although we regularly test our software and systems extensively, we can not ensure that our testing will detect every potential bug. Any such bug could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to provide our services using the Internet may be adversely affected by computer vandalism. If the overall performance of the Internet is seriously downgraded by website attacks, failure of service attacks, or other acts of computer vandalism or virus infection, our ability to deliver our communication services over the Internet could be adversely impacted, which could cause us to have to increase the amount of traffic we have to carry over alternative networks, including the more costly public switched telephone network. In addition, traditional business interruption insurance may not cover losses we could 22 incur because of any such disruption of the Internet. While some insurers are beginning to offer products purporting to cover these losses, we do not have any of this insurance at this time. Risks Related to Our Company A failure to obtain necessary additional capital in the future could jeopardize our operations. We may need additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and corporate infrastructure, expand our network, increase the range of services we offer and respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative equity ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to grow or maintain our operations. Investor interest in our common stock may be negatively affected by our continued trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Since receiving a determination from the Nasdaq National Market on November 13, 2002 that shares of our common stock would no longer trade on the Nasdaq National Market because we failed to meet certain minimum listing requirements, our common stock began trading on the NASD-operated Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board market is generally considered to be less efficient and not as liquid as the Nasdaq National Market (now known as the Nasdaq Stock Market). Trading in this market may decrease the market value and liquidity of our common stock, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to attract additional investment to finance our operations. We have also learned that our common stock may be trading on the Berlin, Germany stock exchange, which we have not authorized. Such exchange has been rumored to allow “naked” short selling of stock, or otherwise not comply with exchange requirements that are customary in the U.S., and could thereby be detrimental to the value of our stock and our ability to attract investors. Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could also discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if that change in control would be beneficial to stockholders: · our board of directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock, without stockholder approval; · our board of directors is divided into three classes, each serving three-year terms; · a supermajority of votes of our stockholders is required to amend key provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; · our bylaws contain provisions limiting who can call special meetings of stockholders; · our stockholders may not take action by written consent; and · our stockholders must provide specified advance notice to nominate directors or submit stockholder proposals. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plan may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. 23 