Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns that may affect the general economic climate and our performance, the performance of those with whom we do business, and the appetite of consumers for products and publications. Similarly, the price of our stock is impacted by general equity market conditions, the relative attractiveness of our market sector, differences in results of operations from estimates and projections, and other factors beyond our control. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of those operations and the financial results of those operations elsewhere in this report, the factors listed below could adversely affect our operations. Although the risk factors listed below are the risk factors that Company management considers significant, additional risk factors that are not presently known to Company management or that Company management presently considers insignificant may also adversely affect our operations. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on the popularity of our brands and the reputation and popularity of Martha Stewart, our founder, and Emeril Lagasse. Any adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart or Mr. Lagasse, or the loss of either of their services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base. While we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products as stand-alone brands, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse remain important factors. Ms. Stewart’s efforts, personality and leadership have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While we have managed our business without her daily participation at times in the past, the repeated diminution or loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in 2008 we acquired the assets relating to Emeril Lagasse’s businesses other than his restaurants and foundation. The value of these assets is largely related to the ongoing popularity and participation of Mr. Lagasse in the activities related to exploiting these assets. Therefore, the continued value of these assets could be materially adversely affected if Mr. Lagasse were to lose popularity with the public or be unable to participate in our business, forcing us potentially to write-down a significant amount of the value we paid for these assets. The difficulty in the financial markets and sustained weakness in the economy could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could adversely affect the value of our assets, hamper our ability to refinance our existing debt or our ability to raise additional funds. The economy experienced extreme disruption in 2008 and 2009, including extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and a drastic reduction in credit availability. These events have led to increased unemployment, declines in consumer confidence and declines in personal income and consumer spending, particularly discretionary income and spending. This economic downturn has also resulted in extraordinary and unprecedented uncertainty and instability for many companies, across all industries, and has severely impacted and could still in the future impact many of the companies with which we do business. We cannot predict the future health and viability of the companies with which we do business and upon which we depend for royalty revenues, advertising dollars and credit. These economic conditions and market instability also make it difficult for us to forecast consumer and product demand trends and companies’ willingness to spend money to advertise in our media properties. We have experienced a decline in advertising revenues. An extended period of reduced cash flows could increase our need for credit at a time when such credit may not be available due to the conditions in the financial markets. A reduction in cash flows and the inability to collateralize our term loan with cash also could cause us to be in violation of certain debt covenants. We are not able to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the economic recession. If these economic conditions worsen or persist for an extended period of time, it is likely that our results of operations and cash flows will be negatively impacted leading to deterioration in our financial condition. In addition, we have significant goodwill, intangible and other assets recorded on our balance sheet. We have already incurred impairment charges with respect to goodwill and certain intangible assets, and with respect to our investments. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill, intangible and other assets on an ongoing basis, and we may in the future incur additional, and possibly substantial, impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. Impairment assessment inherently involves the exercise of judgment in determining assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Although we believe the assumptions we have used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. Future events and changing market conditions may prove assumptions to be wrong with respect to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors. Differing results may amplify impairment charges in the future. The effects of the current financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results will be difficult to predict and prior results will not likely be indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Our Merchandising business and licensing programs may suffer from the continued downturns in the health and stability of the general economy and housing market. Reduction in the availability of credit, a downturn in the housing market, and other negative economic developments, including increased unemployment, have occurred and may continue, recur or become more pronounced in the future. Each of these developments has and could further limit consumers’ discretionary spending or further affect their confidence. These and other adverse consumer trends have led to reduced spending on general merchandise, homes and home improvement projects — categories in which we license our brands. Further, downturns in consumer spending adversely impact consumer sales overall, resulting in weaker revenues from our licensed products. These trends also may affect the viability and financial health of companies with which we conduct business. Continued slowdown in consumer spending, or going-concern problems for companies with which we do business could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and prospects. 12 Table of Contents Our business is largely dependent on advertising revenues in our publications, broadcasts, and online operations. The market for advertising has been adversely affected by the economic downturn. Our failure to attract or retain advertisers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on advertising revenue in our Publishing, Broadcasting, and Internet businesses. We cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. We have seen a significant downturn in advertising dollars generally in the marketplace, and more competition for the reduced dollars, which has hurt our publications and advertising revenues. As a result, fewer advertisers represent a greater proportion of our advertising revenue. We cannot assure how or whether this trend might improve. If advertisers continue to spend less money, or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our publications, broadcasts or website, our business and revenues will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition for advertising and consumer demand. We face significant competition from a number of print and website publishers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enhance their ability to compete in the markets we serve. As advertising dollars have diminished, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified. Competition for advertising revenue in publications is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and scope of readership, reader response to the promotions for advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact readership audience, circulation revenues and, ultimately, advertising revenues. Because some forms of media have relatively low barriers to entry, we anticipate that additional competitors, some of which have greater resources than we do, may enter these markets and intensify competition. Acquiring or developing additional brands or businesses, and integrating acquired assets, poses inherent financial and other risks and challenges. In 2008, we acquired certain assets of Chef Emeril Lagasse. Failure to manage or integrate those assets, or exploit the Emeril brand, could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to acquire other brands. The process of consolidating and integrating acquired operations and assets takes a significant period of time, places a significant strain on resources and could prove to be more expensive and time consuming than we predicted. We may increase expenditures to accelerate the integration process with the goal of achieving longer-term cost savings and improved profitability. We also may be required to manage multiple relationships with third parties as we expand our product offerings and brand portfolio. These developments may increase expenses if we hire additional personnel to manage our growth. These investments require significant time commitments from our senior management and place a strain on their ability to manage our existing businesses. We continue to evaluate the acquisition of other businesses. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation, and integration. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the field of interactive media. Even if successfully negotiated, closed, and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. Our Merchandising business has relied heavily on revenue from a single source, the reduction of revenue from which has hurt and continues to hurt our profitability. Our agreement with Kmart ended in January 2010. For the twelve months ended January 31, 2010, the minimum guaranteed royalty payment from Kmart was $14.0 million, plus we recognized an additional $10.0 million in previously deferred royalties as non-cash revenue. For the twelve months ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, the minimum guaranteed royalty payments from Kmart totaled $20.0 million and $65.0 million, respectively. We have not yet earned royalties from other sources in sufficient scope to recoup the loss in guaranteed payments from Kmart. While we continue to diversify our merchandise offerings in an effort to build up alternative royalty streams, we may not be able to earn revenue that will compensate for this shortfall, which has and may continue to adversely affect our operating results and business. 13 Table of Contents We are expanding our merchandising and licensing programs into new areas and products, the failure of any of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing retail merchandising programs. We have entered into several new merchandising and licensing agreements in the past few years and have acquired new agreements through our acquisition of the Emeril Lagasse assets. Some of these agreements are exclusive and have a duration of many years. While we require that our licensees maintain the quality of our respective brands through specific contractual provisions, we cannot be certain that our licensees, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brands. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our licensees are not adversely impacted by general economic or market conditions, including decreased consumer spending and reduced availability of credit. If these companies experience financial hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to pay us royalties or continue selling our products, regardless of their contractual obligations. There is also a risk that our extension into new business areas will meet with disapproval from consumers. We have limited experience in merchandising in some of these business areas. We cannot guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or if implemented, that they will be successful. If the licensing or merchandising programs do not succeed, we may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusive nature and multi-year terms of these agreements. Disputes with new or existing licensees may arise which could hinder our ability to grow or expand our product lines. Disputes also could prevent or delay our ability to collect the licensing revenue that we expect in connection with these products. If such developments occur or our merchandising programs are otherwise not successful, the value and recognition of our brands, as well as our business, financial condition and prospects, could be materially adversely affected. If The Martha Stewart Show fails to maintain a sufficient audience, if adverse trends continue or develop in the television production business generally, or if Martha Stewart were to cease to be able to devote substantial time to our television business, that business could be adversely affected. We also derive value from Emeril Lagasse’s television shows, the popularity of which cannot be assured. Our television production business is subject to a number of uncertainties. Our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by: Failure of our television programming to maintain a sufficient audience Television production is a speculative business because revenues derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming depends upon, among other things, the quality of that programming, the strength of stations on which that programming is broadcast or the strength of the cable channels on which that programming is carried, promotion of that programming and the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. The Martha Stewart Show television program has experienced a decline in ratings that reflects both the general decline in daytime broadcast television viewers discussed below, as well as the decision by some major market stations to shift the airing of the show. These developments have negatively impacted our television advertising revenues. In addition, moving the show from syndication to the Hallmark Channel could result in lower ratings as cable channels typically have a smaller household universe of viewers from which to draw, and The Martha Stewart Show will no longer be able to be seen in broadcast- only homes whose residents might be a portion of the show’s current audience. If ratings for the show were to further decline, it would adversely affect the advertising revenues we derive from television. A ratings decline further than we anticipate could also make it economically inefficient to continue production of the show. If production of the show were to cease, we would lose a significant marketing platform for us and our products, and it would cause us to write down our capitalized programming costs. Additionally, a decline in ratings or cessation of The Martha Stewart Show would negatively impact our website, marthastewart.com, since the show is an important driver of audience to our website. The amount of any write down would vary depending on a number of factors, including when production ceased and the extent to which we continued to generate revenues from the use of our existing program library. While we have not historically produced television shows featuring Emeril Lagasse, Emeril’s failure to maintain or build popularity could result in the loss of a significant marketing platform for us and our products, as well as the loss of anticipated revenue and profits from his television shows. 14 Table of Contents Adverse trends in the television business generally Television revenues may also be affected by a number of other factors, most of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in daytime television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, the strength of the stations on which our programming is broadcast or the strength of the cable channel on which our programming is carried, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. Any or all of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. There has been a reduction in advertising dollars generally available and more competition for the reduced dollars across more media platforms. While we currently benefit from our ability to sell advertising on our television programs, if adverse changes occur, we cannot be certain that we will continue to be able to sell this advertising or that our advertising rates can be maintained. Accordingly, if any of these adverse changes were to occur, the revenues we generate from television programming could decline. We have placed emphasis on building an advertising-revenue-based website, dependent on a large consumer audience and resulting page views. Failure to fulfill these undertakings could adversely affect our brand and business prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon the continued development and growth of our Internet business. We have had failures with direct commerce in the past, and only limited experience in building an advertising-revenue-based website. When initial results from the relaunch of the marthastewart.com site in the second quarter of 2007 were below expectations, we made changes to the site. We cannot be certain that those changes will enable us to sustain growth for our website in the long term. In addition, the competition for advertising dollars has intensified. In order for our Internet business to succeed, we must, among other things: • significantly increase our online audience and advertising revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our website; • expand the content, products and interactive experiences we offer on our website; • respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct brand identity; • attract and retain talent for critical positions; • maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and • bring innovative product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives or that our Internet business will become profitable. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming, content and products that strongly appeal to a large number of consumers. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts, programming, content and products. The strength of our brands and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence tastes through broadcasting, publishing, merchandising and the Internet. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of homemakers and other consumers. New product launches may reduce our earnings or generate losses. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue offering new products and services that successfully gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of our current and future customers. Our efforts to introduce new products or integrate acquired products may not be successful or profitable. The process of internally researching and developing, launching, gaining acceptance and establishing profitability for a new product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product, is both risky and costly. New products generally incur initial operating losses. Costs related to the development of new products and services are generally expensed as incurred and, accordingly, our profitability from year to year may be adversely affected by the number and timing of new product launches. For example, we had a cumulative loss of $15.7 million in connection with Blueprint, which we ceased publishing in 2007. Other businesses and brands that we may develop also may prove not to be successful. 15 Table of Contents Our principal Publishing vendors are consolidating and this may adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on certain principal vendors in our Publishing business, and their ability or willingness to sell goods and services to us at favorable prices and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability and willingness of these vendors to sell these goods and services to us on favorable terms. Our principal vendors include paper suppliers, printers, subscription fulfillment houses and national newsstand wholesalers, distributors and retailers. Each of these industries in recent years has experienced consolidation among its principal participants. Further consolidation may result in all or any of the following, which could adversely affect our results of operations: • decreased competition, which may lead to greater dependence on certain vendors and increased prices; and • interruptions and delays in services provided by such vendors We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in paper and postage costs. In our Publishing business, our principal raw material is paper. Paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. We generally purchase paper from major paper suppliers who adjust the price periodically. We have not entered, and do not currently plan to enter, into long-term forward price or option contracts for paper. Accordingly, significant increases in paper prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. Postage for magazine distribution is also one of our significant expenses. We primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute magazine subscriptions. In recent years, postage rates have increased, and a significant increase in postage prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may not be able to recover, in whole or in part, paper or postage cost increases. We may face increased costs for distribution of our magazines to newsstands and bookstores. Distribution of magazines to newsstands and bookstores is conducted primarily through companies known as wholesalers. Wholesalers have in the past advised us that they intended to increase the price of their services. We have not experienced any material increase to date; however some wholesalers have experienced credit and on-going concern risks. It is possible that other wholesalers likewise may seek to increase the price of their services or discontinue operations. An increase in the price of our wholesalers’ services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The need to change wholesalers could cause a disruption or delay in deliveries, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a continued weakening of newsstand sales. The magazine industry has seen a weakening of newsstand sales during the past few years. A continuation of this decline could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by further reducing our circulation revenue and causing us to either incur higher circulation expense to maintain our rate bases, or to reduce our rate bases which could negatively impact our revenue. We may be adversely affected by rebranding our Body + Soul publication. Effective with the June 2010 issue, we will change the name of Body + Soul magazine to Whole Living in an attempt to more effectively integrate it with our corresponding website, wholeliving.com, and to broaden the editorial coverage of the magazine. Changing the product name and editorial coverage may diminish brand awareness that could adversely impact newsstand sales, and could affect the satisfaction of current subscribers, which could reduce our subscription renewal rates. 16 Table of Contents Our websites and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our and our users’ proprietary or personal information. Our Internet activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and personal information of our users, which we endeavor to protect from third party access. However, it is possible that unauthorized persons may be able to circumvent our protections and misappropriate proprietary or personal information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or remedy any such security breaches. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures and contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas may not be successful or enforceable. Martha Stewart controls our Company through her stock ownership, enabling her to elect our board of directors, and potentially to block matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential changes of control. Ms. Stewart controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, representing over 90% of our voting power. The Class B Common Stock has ten votes per share, while Class A Common Stock, which is the stock available to the public, has one vote per share. Because of this dual-class structure, Ms. Stewart has a disproportionately influential vote. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to control unilaterally the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and the ability to control our management and affairs. While her 2006 settlement with the SEC bars Ms. Stewart for the five-year period ending in August 2011 from serving at the Company as a director, or as an officer with financial responsibilities, her concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses and stockholders. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our business and result in costly litigation. Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity and resulting intellectual property. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we depend. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. If we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly, affecting our finances and our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. A loss of the services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success depends to a large degree upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We operate in four highly competitive businesses: Publishing, Broadcasting, Internet, and Merchandising, each of which subjects us to competitive pressures and other uncertainties. We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our four businesses. Our magazines, books and related publishing products compete not only with other magazines, books and publishing products, but also with other mass media, websites, and many other types of leisure-time activities. Competition for advertising dollars in magazine operations is primarily based on advertising rates, as well as editorial and aesthetic quality, the desirability of the magazine’s demographic, reader response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of the advertising sales staff. Our Merchandising segment competitors consist of mass-market and department stores that compete with the mass-market and department stores in which our Merchandising segment products are sold, including Bed Bath & Beyond, BJ’s, JC Penney, Kmart, Kohl’s, Lowe’s, Sam’s Club Target, and Wal-Mart. Our merchandising lines also compete within the mass-market and department stores that carry our product lines with other products offered by these stores in the respective product categories. We also compete with the internet businesses of these stores and other websites that sell similar retail goods. Competition in our flower business includes other online sellers as well as traditional floral retailers. 17 Table of Contents Our websites compete with other how-to, food and lifestyle websites. Our challenge is to attract and retain users through an easy-to-use and content-relevant website. Competition for adverting is based on the number of unique users we attract each month, the demographic profile of that audience and the number of pages they view on our site. Our television programs compete directly for viewers, distribution and/or advertising dollars with other lifestyle and how-to television programs, as well as with general programming and all other competing forms of media. Overall competitive factors in Broadcasting include programming content, quality and distribution, as well as the demographic appeal of the programming. Competition for television and advertising dollars is based primarily on advertising rates, audience size and demographic composition, viewer response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of the advertising sales staff. Our radio programs compete for listeners with similarly themed programming on both satellite and terrestrial radio. Our failure to meet the competitive pressures in any of these segments could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 