ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not yet known or currently believed to be immaterial may also impair Cytomedix’s business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of its Common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to Cytomedix securities. We Have Limited Sources of Working Capital Because of our financial history, including bankruptcy in 2001/2002, it may be difficult to obtain debt financing. Working capital required to implement our business plan will most likely be provided by funds obtained through offerings of our equity and/or equity-linked securities, and revenues generated by us. No assurance can be given that we will have revenues sufficient to support and sustain our operations or that we would be able to obtain equity financing in the current economic environment. If we do not have sufficient working capital and are unable to generate sufficient revenues or raise additional funds, we may delay the completion of or significantly reduce the scope of our current business plan; delay some of our development and clinical or marketing efforts, our plans to pursue Medicare and/or commercial insurance reimbursement for our wound treatment technologies; certain development activities related to the newly acquired Aldagen business; or postpone the hiring of new personnel; or, under certain dire financial circumstances, cease our operations. We Need Substantial Additional Financing, Which May Be Provided By Amounts Raised Under an Existing Financing Agreement. We need substantial additional capital to fund our operations. To date, we have relied almost exclusively on financing transactions to fund our operations. Our inability to obtain sufficient additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend activities. At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.2 million, total current assets of approximately $5.2 million and total current liabilities of approximately $3.1 million. Based on our current operating plan, we believe we have sufficient cash through at least the end of 2012, but anticipate needing additional capital in 2013. However, our projections could be wrong. We could face unforeseen costs or our revenues could fall short of our projections. We have access to additional funding, subject to certain contractual limitations, of up to approximately $6 million from Lincoln Park Capital, LLC (“LPC”) under the purchase agreement dated October 5, 2010 (the “Purchase Agreement”). Under the Purchase Agreement, we may direct LPC to purchase up to $10 million of our shares of our common stock under our Purchase Agreement over a 25 month period ending in January 2013, generally in amounts of up to 150,000 shares. However, LPC does not have the right nor the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the price of our common stock is less than $.30 per share. We have registered 12,336,538 shares for sale by LPC related to the Purchase Agreement. In the event we elect to issue more than 12,336,538 shares offered hereby, we will be required to file a new registration statement and have it declared effective by the SEC. The extent to which we rely on LPC as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, our need for additional capital, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from LPC were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, and if other sources of funding are available to us, we may determine not to sell shares to LPC under the Purchase Agreement. New sources of capital may not be available to us when we need them or may be available only on terms we would not find acceptable. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to the outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Common Stock Has Been Delisted from the NYSE Amex, Which Subjects Us to the SEC’s Penny Stock Rules and May Decrease the Liquidity of Our Common Stock. We were previously operating under a compliance plan intended to allow us to regain compliance with the NYSE Amex’s stockholders’ equity requirement. On January 20, 2011, the Company notified the NYSE Amex staff of its intent to withdraw the request for a hearing and the NYSE Amex notified the Company that its stock would cease being listed on or about January 26, 2011. Over-the-counter markets are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, a stock exchange. There may be a limited market for our stock now that it is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, trading in our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease. Specifically, shareholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the price paid for such shares or at all. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may be impaired because of the less liquid nature of the over-the-counter markets. While we cannot guarantee that we would be able to complete an equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we believe that dilution from any equity financing while our shares are quoted on an over-the-counter market could be substantially greater than if we were to complete a financing while our common stock is traded on a national securities exchange. Further, now that our stock is not traded on an exchange, we are no longer eligible to use short-form registration statements on Form S-3 for the registration of our securities, which could impair our ability to raise additional capital as needed. Our common stock is also subject to penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market will be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our common stock will likely be adversely affected. We cannot assure shareholders that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future. There is No Assurance that We Will Successfully Integrate the Aldagen Business, or that We Will Realize the Anticipated Synergies of the Combined Businesses. The acquisition of Aldagen represents a significant investment by the Company. Although it comes with a complete infrastructure, including personnel, to proceed with its development plans, it will require significant attention and resources of non-Aldagen Cytomedix personnel which could reduce the likelihood of achievement of other corporate goals. The additional financing needs created by the Aldagen acquisition will also require additional management time to address. There is no assurance that we will, on a sustainable basis, successfully integrate any or all of the various aspects to the acquired business, including but not limited to the clinical trial, manufacturing, regulatory, finance, human resource, and other functions. Failure to smoothly and successfully integrate the acquired business could lead to a reduction in revenue for the Angel®, ActivAT®, and AutoloGelTM, products compared to historical levels, generate ill will among our customer base, and therefore have a material adverse affect on us, our operations or the price of our common stock. There is no assurance that the development efforts underway with the Aldagen technology will be successful. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will realize synergies in the scientific, clinical, regulatory, or other areas as we currently contemplate. In addition, there is no assurance that we will realize any anticipated economies of scale for the combined businesses. The Restatement of Our Financial Statements in January 2011 has Subjected Us to Additional Risks and Uncertainties, Including Increased Professional Costs and the Increased Possibility of Legal Proceedings. On January 6, 2011, the Company announced, among other things, in its Current Report on Form 8-K that, the previously issued financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 included in the Company’s then most recently filed Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1, and each of the quarterly periods from March 31, 2009 through September 30, 2010 included in the Company’s quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q were no longer reliable because they failed to incorporate non-cash charges resulting from required adjustments to certain outstanding stock purchase warrants. On January 7, 2011, the Company filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 as well as amended and restated Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q/A for the quarterly periods ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009 and March 31, June 30, and 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS September 30, 2010. The amendments to the Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q/A were filed to restate unaudited financial statements and related financial information for the periods contained in those reports. The amendment to the Annual Report on Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 was filed to restate financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. As a result of the restatements, we have become subject to additional risks and uncertainties, including, among others, increased professional fees and expenses and time commitment that may be required to address matters related to the restatements, and scrutiny of the SEC and other regulatory bodies which could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information and could subject the Company to civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. The Company could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause its stock price to decline. In addition, in connection with the foregoing restatements, the Company determined that there was a control deficiency in its internal control that constituted a material weakness. The Company implemented a remediation plan to address the material weakness and, as of December 31, 2010, and continuing through today, concluded that it had successfully remediated said weakness. The Company will continue to review and make necessary changes to the overall design of the Company’s internal control environment, as well as to policies and procedures to improve the overall effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, management may identify material weaknesses in the future that could adversely affect investor confidence, impair the value of the Company’s common stock and increase the Company’s cost of raising capital. There can be no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. We are Reliant on Several Single Source Suppliers and an Interruption in Our Supply Chain Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, manufacturing responsibilities for all of the Angel® and ActivAT® products were transferred from Sorin to Cytomedix. Cytomedix is outsourcing the manufacturing of the various products, including component parts, composing these lines to contract manufacturers. While we believe these manufacturers to be of sufficient competency, quality, reliability, and stability, there is no assurance that one or more of them will not experience an interruption or inability to provide us with the products needed to satisfy customer demand. Additionally, while most of the components of AutoloGelTM are generally readily available on the open market, a reagent, bovine thrombin, is available exclusively through Pfizer, Inc. (“Pfizer”). If a temporary or permanent interruption in the supply of products were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we are formulating plans to develop redundant capabilities, such capabilities will not take effect for the foreseeable future. While the Company does maintain business interruption insurance, there is no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all losses which would occur as a result of any interruption in supply. Adverse Conditions in the Global Economy and Disruption of Financial Markets May Significantly Restrict Our Ability to Generate Revenues or Obtain Debt or Equity Financing. The global economy continues to experience volatility and uncertainty. Such conditions could reduce demand for our products which would significantly jeopardize our ability to achieve meaningful market penetration for AutoloGelTM and continued sales of Angel® and ActivAT® products. These conditions could also affect our potential strategic partners, which, in turn, could make it much more difficult to execute a strategic collaboration, and therefore significantly jeopardize our ability to fully develop and commercialize our products and product candidates. Global credit and capital markets continue to be relatively challenging. We may be unable to obtain capital through issuance of our equity and/or equity-linked securities, a significant source of funding for us throughout our history. If we are unable to secure funding through strategic collaborations, equity investments, or debt financing, we may not be able to achieve profitability, or fund our research and development activities, which may result in a cessation of operations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause customers to reduce purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers’ ability to supply sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to fulfill sales orders. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers, investors, and business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm sales, profitability and results of operations. Economic downturns or other adverse economic changes (local, regional, or national) can also hurt our financial performance in the form of lower interest earned on investments and/or could result in losses of portions of principal in our investment portfolio. While our investment policy requires us to invest only in short-term, low risk investments, there is no assurance that principal will not be eroded as a significant portion of these investments is in excess of federally mandated insurance. We Have a History of Losses and Expect to Incur Losses for the Foreseeable Future. We have a history of losses, are not currently profitable, and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flows in the future. Although, prior to the Aldagen acquisition, we were targeting operational cash flow break-even within the foreseeable future, the acquisition of Aldagen, and the expenditures necessary to fund the on-going clinical trial and related activities, will cause us to continue to generate losses. We may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We will continue to incur expenses at current or increased levels as we seek to expand our operations, pursue development of our technologies, work to increase our sales, implement internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. These ongoing financial losses may adversely affect our stock price. We Have a Short Operating History and Limited Operating Experience. We must be evaluated in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. We have, only in the past few years, implemented our commercialization strategy for AutoloGelTM and have only one year’s experience operating the fully integrated Angel® and ActivAT® business. Thus, we have a very limited operating history. Continued operating losses, together with the risks associated with our ability to gain new customers for our product offerings, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We may also be forced to respond to unforeseen difficulties, such as a decreased demand for our products and services, downward pricing trends, regulatory requirements and unanticipated market pressures. Since emerging from bankruptcy and continuing through today, we are developing a business model that includes protecting our patent position, addressing our third-party reimbursement issues, developing and executing a sales and marketing program, acquiring synergistic technologies and product lines, developing other technologies covered by, or derived from, our intellectual property, and seeking strategic partnerships. There can be no assurance that our business model in its current form can accomplish our stated goals. Our Intellectual Property Assets Are Critical to Our Success We regard our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property assets as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, and trade secret and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures, to establish and protect our intellectual property. We attempt to prevent disclosure of our trade secrets by restricting access to sensitive information and requiring employees, consultants, and other persons with access to our sensitive information to sign confidentiality agreements. Despite these efforts, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology in the future. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property assets is difficult and expensive. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may be necessary in the future in order to protect our intellectual property assets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any litigation matter relating to our intellectual property assets. Continuing litigation or other challenges 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS could result in one or more of our patents being declared invalid. In such a case, any royalty revenues from the affected patents would be adversely affected although we may still be able to continue to develop and market our products. Furthermore, the unauthorized use of our patented technology by otherwise potential customers in our target markets may significantly undermine our ability to generate sales. Any infringement on or challenge to our patents or other misappropriation of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse affect on our ability to increase sales of our commercial products and/or continue the development of our pipeline candidates. Our Products are Subject to Governmental Regulation Our success is also impacted by factors outside of our control. Our current technology and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, both federal and state, and in foreign countries by various regulatory agencies. Specifically, our devices and bio-pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the FDA and state regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates drugs, medical devices and biologics that move in interstate commerce and requires that such products receive clearance or pre-marketing approval based on evidence of safety and efficacy. The regulations of government health ministries in foreign countries are analogous to those of the FDA in both application and scope. In addition, any change in current regulatory interpretations by, or positions of, state regulatory officials where our products are used could materially and adversely affect our ability to sell products in those states. The FDA will require us to obtain clearance or approval of new devices when used for treating specific wounds or marketed with specific wound healing claims, or for other products under development. We believe all our products for sale are legally marketed. As we expand and offer additional products in the United States and in foreign countries, clearance or approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities prior to introduction of any such products into the market may be required. We provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries for these products. Failure to obtain the required approvals would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Compliance with FDA and other governmental requirements imposes significant costs and expenses. Further, our failure to comply with these requirements could result in sanctions, limitations on promotional or other business activities, or other adverse effects on our business. Further, recent efforts to control healthcare costs could negatively affect demand for our products and services. Clinical Trials May Fail to Demonstrate the Safety or Efficacy of Our Product Candidates Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biotherapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of its product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the regulatory officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the U.S. regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, has the potential to materially harm our business, and may prevent it from raising necessary, additional financing that may be needed in the future. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS A Disruption in Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Operations and Profitability Our operations and future profitability are dependent, in large part, upon the ability to contract with healthcare providers on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers could refuse to contract with Cytomedix or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, or create difficulties in meeting our regulatory requirements. In some service areas, certain healthcare providers may have a significant market presence. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate unfavorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market services or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large healthcare provider group. Any disruption in provider networks could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues or profits. Our Sales and Marketing Strategy for the AutoloGelTM System May Not Succeed In January 2009, we implemented a revised sales and marketing strategy that focuses on intensive clinician to clinician interaction with both prospective and existing customers, and the scientific explanation of AutoloGelTM’s mechanism of action. There is no assurance that this approach will result in significant, sustainable growth in sales revenue, or that we, as currently capitalized, will have sufficient resources to provide the level of clinical support for this initiative to be successful. We are seeking a strategic partner to participate in the commercialization efforts of AutoloGelTM. Although we are currently in a period of exclusive negotiations with a potential partner in the form of a top 20 global pharmaceutical company, there is no assurance that an agreement will be reached. Additionally, if an agreement is reached, there is no assurance that the partnership will yield a significant revenue and/or royalty stream to Cytomedix. CMS’s Non-Coverage of AutoloGelTM Could Greatly Restrict Our Sales The AutoloGelTM System is marketed to healthcare providers. Some of these providers, in turn, seek reimbursement from third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other private insurers. Many foreign countries also have comprehensive government managed healthcare programs that provide reimbursement for healthcare products. Under such healthcare systems, reimbursement is often a determining factor in predicting a product’s success, with some physicians and patients strongly favoring only those products for which they will be reimbursed. With CMS’s national non-coverage determination, the market for the AutoloGelTM System is restricted and it may be difficult, if not impossible, to sell AutoloGelTM in most care settings. This currently hinders our ability to grow its revenues and could reduce the likelihood that it will ever achieve sustainable profitability. We provide no assurance that our efforts to obtain CMS coverage will be successful. Our Efforts to Secure Medicare Reimbursement May Not Be Successful In March 2008, CMS reaffirmed its 2003 non-coverage determination for autologous platelet rich plasma, which would include AutoloGelTM. Since then we have gathered additional data and officially requested that CMS reconsider its non-coverage determination. In November 2011, CMS officially agreed to reconsider coverage for autologous blood therapies for the treatment of chronic wounds. We provide no assurance that we will ultimately be successful with this strategy and that CMS will decide that the evidence is sufficient to reverse all or a portion of its existing non-coverage determination. If we later determine that a new randomized, controlled trial is necessary, it could cost several millions of dollars and take multiple years to complete. We would almost certainly need to obtain additional, outside financing to fund such a trial. In any case, we may never be successful in securing Medicare coverage for our products. We May Be Unable to Attract a Strategic Partner for the Further Development of Certain of Our Product Candidates Due to our limited resources, we have determined that the best vehicle to ultimately commercialize the various potential indications for ALDHbr, as well as our CT-112 technology, is through strategic partnerships, outlicensing, or other similar arrangements. There is no assurance, even if positive clinical data is achieved in the currently on-going trials, that we will be able to come to any such agreements or that we will even have the resources necessary to seek such arrangements. Furthermore, even if such a strategic relationship regarding any of our products is reached, there is no assurance that development milestones, clinical data, or other such 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS benchmarks will be achieved. Therefore, these products may never proceed toward commercialization or drive cash infusions for us, and we may ultimately not be able to monetize the patents, existing clinical data, and other intellectual property. The Success of Our Products Is Dependent on Acceptance by the Medical Community The commercial success of our products and processes will depend upon the medical community and patients accepting the therapies as safe and effective. If the medical community and patients do not ultimately accept the therapies as safe and effective, our ability to sell the products will be materially and adversely affected. While acceptance by the medical community may be fostered by broad evaluation via peer-reviewed literature, we may not have the resources to facilitate sufficient publication. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our future success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. We have retained a team of highly qualified officers and consultants, but cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. Our inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition of the Company. Our ability to maintain and provide additional services to our customers depends upon our ability to hire and retain business development and scientific and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in regenerative biological therapy technologies. Competition for such personnel is intense; we compete with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and healthcare companies. Our inability to hire additional qualified personnel may lead to higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. These increased costs may reduce our profit margins or make hiring new personnel impractical. Legislative and Administrative Action May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Company Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. We cannot predict what other legislation relating to our business or to the health care industry may be enacted, including legislation relating to third-party reimbursement, or what effect such legislation may have on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. We expect federal and state legislators to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and possibly adopt legislation affecting further changes in the health care delivery system. Such laws may contain provisions that may change the operating environment for hospitals and managed care organizations. Health care industry participants may react to such legislation by curtailing or deferring expenditures and initiatives, including those relating to our products. Future legislation could result in modifications to the existing public and private health care insurance systems that would have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement policies discussed above. With growing pressures on government budgets due to the current economic downturn, government efforts to contain or reduce health care spending are likely to gain increasing emphasis. Several members of the current presidential administration and Congress are espousing support for cost-containment measures that could have significant implications for healthcare therapies, including our current and future products. If enacted and implemented, such measures could result in decreased revenue from our products and decrease potential returns from our research and development initiatives. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully neutralize any lobbying efforts against our efforts to secure Medicare coverage or other initiatives we may have with governmental agencies. We Could Be Affected by Malpractice Claims Providing medical care entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice and other claims. We do not control or direct the practice of medicine by physicians or health care providers who use the products and do not assume responsibility for compliance with regulatory and other requirements directly applicable to physicians. There is no assurance that claims, suits or complaints relating to the use of our products and treatment administered by physicians will not be asserted against us in the future. The production, marketing and sale, and use of our products entails risks that product liability claims will be asserted against us. These risks cannot be eliminated, and we could be held liable for any damages that result from adverse reactions or infectious disease transmission. Such liability could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. We currently maintain professional and product liability insurance 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS coverage, but cannot give assurance that the coverage limits of this insurance would be adequate to protect against all potential claims. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain professional and product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our Products Have Existing Competition in the Marketplace In the market for biotechnology products, we face competition from pharmaceutical companies, biopharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, and other competitors. Other companies have developed or are developing products that may be in direct competition with our current product line. Biotechnology development projects are characterized by intense competition. Thus, we cannot assure that we will be the first to the market with any newly developed products or that we will successfully be able to market these products. If we are not able to participate and compete in the regenerative biological therapy market, our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products. Recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, may be the basis for developments that will compete with our products. The Sale of Our Common Stock to Lincoln Park May Cause Substantial Dilution to Our Existing Stockholders and the Sale of the Shares of Common Stock Acquired by Lincoln Park Could Cause the Price of Our Common Stock to Decline In October 2010, we entered into certain agreements with Lincoln Park Capital LLC (“LPC”) whereby we could, but were not required to, sell shares of our Common stock to LPC over a two year period up to a maximum aggregate amount of $11.5 million (the “Purchase Agreements”). The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by LPC is dependent upon the number of shares we elect to sell to LPC under the Purchase Agreements. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock by LPC may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. After it has acquired shares under the Purchase Agreements, LPC may sell all, some or none of those shares. Sales to LPC by us pursuant to the Purchase Agreements may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our Common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common stock by LPC, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to LPC and the Purchase Agreements may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Adversely Affect Current and Future Stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially include, among others: • our ability or inability to execute our business plan; • the dilutive effect or perceived dilutive effect of additional equity financings; • investor perception of our company and of the industry; • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States or overseas; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; or • general economic, political and market conditions. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility could be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. We May Likely Issue Additional Equity or Debt Securities Which May Materially and Adversely Affect the Price of Our Common Stock Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used, and will likely continue to use, our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock to fund working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If additional equity and/or equity-linked securities are issued, particularly during times when our common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. There is a Limited Public Trading Market for Our Common Stock Although the average daily trading volume in our common stock has increased in the past six months, it has historically been relatively low. If low trading volume is persistent, it could be difficult to sell a significant number of shares of common stock at any particular time at the market prices prevailing immediately before such shares are offered. Shareholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of common stock could lower the prevailing market price of our common stock. This would limit or perhaps prevent our ability to raise capital through the sale of securities. Additionally, we have significant numbers of outstanding warrants and options that, if exercised and sold, could put additional downward pressure on the common stock price. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and it may adversely affect the price of our common stock. These broad market fluctuations may reduce the demand for our stock and therefore adversely affect the price of our securities, regardless of operating performance. We are Subject to Anti-Takeover Provisions and Laws Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock or delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our common stock price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 