Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly revise our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents Part I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading non-asset based North American logistics provider. Within North America, we are one of the largest intermodal marketing companies, which facilitate the movement of freight by trailer or container using two or more modes of transportation. We focus our business on our core intermodal product, with intermodal sales representing approximately 80% of our total revenues. We believe that our competitive advantages include: the ability to pass volume rate savings and economies of scale to our customers; a significant opportunity to cross-sell services to existing customers; the flexibility to tailor services to our customers’ needs in rapidly changing freight markets; and the ability to provide reliable and consistent services. Using our proprietary information systems, we provide logistics services to numerous Fortune 500 and multi-national companies, including Big Lots, C.H. Robinson, General Electric, Sony, Union Pacific, Toyota and Whirlpool, which together represented approximately 19% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2006, as well as numerous middle-market companies. We utilize a non-asset based strategy in which we seek to limit our investment in equipment and facilities and reduce working capital requirements through arrangements with transportation carriers and equipment providers. This strategy provides us with access to freight terminals and facilities and control over transportation-related equipment without owning assets. We believe our non-asset based strategy results in reduced working capital requirements, as compared to those of asset-based transportation providers. In our intermodal segment, our contractual arrangements with our underlying rail carriers and local trucking or drayage companies do not require us to pay for rail or truck transportation services that are not needed to service our customers’ shipping needs. In our logistics segment, our contractual arrangements with truck carriers and equipment providers also do not require us to purchase or pay for carrier services or for equipment usage or availability that are not required to service our customers’ shipping needs. We believe that this is customary in the non-asset based highway brokerage industries in which our logistics segment competes. Also, our trucking services units utilize independent owner-operators, who own and operate their equipment, to provide truck transportation for our customers, and our agreements with these owner-operators do not require us to pay for truck services or for equipment usage or availability that are not actually used to transport our customers’ goods. We believe that our non-asset based competitors in the trucking services sector utilize a similar model. Available Information We file or furnish with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K, annual reports to shareholders and annual proxy statements and amendments to such filings. Our SEC filings are available to the public on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. These reports are also available free of charge from our website at http://www.pacer-international.com, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish such material with or to the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or of any registration statement that incorporates this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. Our Service Offerings We provide our transportation services from two operating segments, our intermodal segment, which provides services principally to transportation intermediaries, beneficial cargo owners and international shipping companies who utilize intermodal transportation, and our logistics segment, which provides services principally to end-user customers for non-intermodal transportation and related services. Effective on October 31, 2006, we transferred our rail brokerage operations from the logistics segment (previously referred to as the retail segment) to the intermodal segment (previously referred to as the wholesale segment) and reorganized management around our core intermodal product. The new intermodal segment consists of our Pacer Stacktrain, including its new door-to-door PacerDirect product, Pacer Cartage and Rail Brokerage operations. Both segments have separate management teams and offer 5 Table of Contents different but related products and services. Information about our segments, including revenues, income from operations, total assets and geographic information is included in Note 7 to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. All financial information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to periods prior to October 31, 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the new segment presentation. The reclassification had no effect on consolidated income from operations or net income. We believe that this new combination of business units within our intermodal and logistics segments and their ability to provide our customers with a comprehensive portfolio of services presents opportunities for enhanced growth and operational synergies. Intermodal Services Stacktrain Intermodal transportation is the movement of freight via trailer or container using two or more modes of transportation which nearly always include a rail and truck segment. Our use of the doublestack method, consisting of the movement of cargo containers stacked two high on special railcars, significantly improves the efficiency of our service by increasing capacity at low incremental cost without sacrificing quality of service. We are a major non-railroad provider of intermodal rail service in North America. We sell intermodal service primarily to intermodal marketing companies, truck brokerage companies, truckload carriers, large automotive intermediaries and international shipping companies, as well as to our own wholly-owned internal intermodal marketing company. We compete primarily with rail carriers and other rail equipment and service providers offering intermodal service and with over-the-road full truckload carriers. Through long-term contracts and other operating arrangements with North American railroads, including Union Pacific, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, CSX, KCSM in Mexico, and Canadian National Railroad, we have access to over a 52,000-mile North American rail network serving most major population and commercial centers in the United States, Canada and Mexico. These contracts and arrangements provide for, among other things, competitive rates, minimum service standards, capacity assurances, priority handling and the utilization of nationwide terminal facilities. We maintain an extensive fleet of doublestack railcars, containers and chassis, substantially all of which are leased. As of December 29, 2006, our equipment fleet consisted of 1,854 doublestack railcars, 28,558 containers and 31,565 chassis (steel frames with rubber tires used to transport containers over the highway). In addition, through arrangements with APL Limited and other shipping companies, we provide customers with access to a large fleet of smaller International Standards Organization (“ISO”) international containers, allowing us to provide additional transportation capacity using these containers as they are being repositioned from destinations within North America back to the West Coast. Our fleet, combined with ocean shipping companies ISO containers, makes us a major provider of capacity in all container sizes. The size of our leased and owned equipment fleet (as well as the smaller ISO international container westbound fleet), the frequent departures available to us through our rail contracts and the geographic coverage of our rail network provide our customers with single-company control over their transportation requirements, which we believe gives us an advantage in attaining at a competitive price the responsiveness and reliability required by our customers. In addition, our access to information technology enables us to continuously track containers, chassis and railcars throughout our transportation network. Through our equipment fleet and arrangements with rail carriers, we can control the equipment used in our intermodal operations and employ full-time personnel on-site at many terminals to ensure close coordination of the services provided at these facilities. In 2005, we began testing a new door-to-door transportation service offering called PacerDirect with several intermodal marketing companies, including our own wholly-owned intermodal marketing company. PacerDirect uses the resources of our Pacer Cartage, Rail Brokerage and Pacer Stacktrain operations to provide improved one touch, door-to-door transportation service to intermodal marketing companies, truck brokers, truckload carriers and other transportation intermediaries. During 2006, we continued the development of this door-to-door product moving beyond the test phase to an initial launch phase which added additional customers and lanes. The full U.S. commercial launch of PacerDirect service is planned for the latter part of 2007. 6 Table of Contents Rail Brokerage We arrange for and optimize the movement of our customers’ freight in containers and trailers throughout North America using truck and rail transportation. We arrange for a container or trailer shipment to be picked up at origin by truck (using either our cartage services or other truck carriers directly) and transported to a site for loading onto a train. The shipment is then transported via railroad (using either our Stacktrain services or rail carriers directly) to a site for unloading from the train in the vicinity of the final destination. After the shipment has been unloaded from the train and is available for pick-up, we arrange for the shipment to be transported by truck (using either our cartage services or other truck carriers directly) to the final destination. We provide customized electronic tracking and analysis of charges, and our own negotiated rail, truck and intermodal rates, and we determine the optimal routes. We also track and monitor shipments in transit, consolidate billing, handle claims of freight loss or damage on behalf of our customers and manage the handling, consolidation and storage of freight throughout the process. Our rail brokerage operations are based in Pasadena (California), Rutherford (New Jersey), Dublin and Dayton (Ohio), Lincolnton (Georgia), Jacksonville (Florida), Toronto (Canada) and Mexico City (Mexico). Our experienced transportation personnel are responsible for operations, customer service, marketing, management information systems and our relationships with the rail carriers. Through our rail brokerage operations, we assist the railroads and our Pacer Stacktrain operation in balancing freight resulting in improved asset utilization. In addition, we serve our customers by passing on economies of scale that we achieve as a volume buyer from railroads, trucking companies and other third party transportation providers, providing access to large equipment pools and streamlining the paperwork and logistics of an intermodal move. Local Cartage Our subsidiary, Pacer Cartage, Inc., provides local cartage largely in and around major U.S. cities, including Los Angeles, Long Beach, San Diego, Lathrop, Oakland and Sacramento (California), Dallas (Texas), Jacksonville (Florida), Chicago (Illinois), Detroit (Michigan), Columbus, Cleveland and Marysville (Ohio), Philadelphia and Harrisburg (Pennsylvania), Memphis (Tennessee), Kansas City (Kansas), Charleston (South Carolina), Seattle (Washington), Portland (Oregon), Plymouth (New Jersey) and Atlanta, Savannah and Dalton (Georgia). We contract with independent trucking contractors and maintain interchange agreements with many major steamship lines, railroads and intermodal equipment providers for the interchange and use of equipment supplied by these providers. This network allows us to supply the local transportation requirements across the country of shippers, ocean carriers and freight forwarders. Logistics Services Highway Brokerage and Truck Services Through our highway brokerage unit, which is a division of our subsidiary Pacer Global Logistics, Inc., we arrange the movement of freight in containers or trailers by truck using a nationwide network of over 3,000 independent trucking companies. By utilizing our aggregate volumes to negotiate rates, we are able to provide quality service at attractive prices. We provide highway brokerage services throughout North America through our customer service centers in Livermore (California), Dallas (Texas), Chicago (Illinois), Phoenix (Arizona), Conyers (Georgia), Rutherford (New Jersey), and Dublin (Ohio). We manage all aspects of these services for our customers, including selecting qualified carriers, negotiating rates, tracking shipments, billing and resolving difficulties. Our separate truck services unit, Pacer Transport, provides dry van and flatbed and specialized heavy-haul trucking services on behalf of our customers. We provide these trucking services through independent agents and contractors who operate approximately 650 trucks equipped with van, flatbed and heavy-haul trailers. We believe that our ability to provide a range of trucking services through our separate highway brokerage and truck services units and our local cartage operations provides a competitive advantage as companies increasingly seek to outsource their transportation and logistics needs to companies that can manage multiple transportation requirements. 7 Table of Contents International Freight Forwarding Services As an international freight forwarder, our subsidiary, RF International, Ltd., provides freight forwarding services that involve transportation of freight into or out of the United States. As a non-vessel operating common carrier (or indirect ocean carrier) and customs broker, we manage international shipping for our customers and provide or connect them with the range of services necessary to run a global business. We also provide airfreight forwarding services as an indirect air carrier. Our international product offerings serve more than 1,000 clients internationally through 8 offices and approximately 100 agents worldwide. As a non-vessel operating common carrier (or indirect ocean carrier), our subsidiary, Ocean World Lines, Inc., arranges transportation of our customers’ freight by contracting with the actual vessel operator to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed wholesale discounted volume rate. We then are able to charge our customers rates lower than the rates they could obtain from actual vessel operators for similar type shipments. We consolidate the freight bound for a particular destination from a common shipping point, prepare all required shipping documents, arrange for any inland transportation, deliver the freight to the vessel operator and arrange transportation to the final destination. At the destination port, acting directly or through our agent, we deliver the freight to the receivers of the goods, which may include customs clearance and inland freight transportation to the final destination. Our contracts with ocean carriers generally require us to pay a small liquidated damage amount for each committed container that we do not ship during the relevant contract period. The aggregate amount of such damages that we have been required to pay in the past has not been material, however, and management believes that such contract terms will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the future. As a customs broker, we are licensed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Service to act on behalf of importers in handling customs formalities and other details critical to the importation of goods. We prepare and file formal documentation required for clearance through customs agencies, obtain customs bonds, facilitate the payment of import duties on behalf of the importer, arrange for the payment of collect freight charges, assist with determining and obtaining the best commodity classifications for shipments and assist with qualifying for duty drawback refunds. We provide customs brokerage services to direct domestic importers in connection with many of the shipments that we handle as a non-vessel operating common carrier, as well as shipments arranged by other freight forwarders, non-vessel operating common carriers or vessel operating common carriers. Warehousing and Distribution Our warehousing and distribution unit, Pacer Distribution Services, Inc., primarily specializes in “import logistics,” or servicing the needs of importers looking to move their goods in a timely and efficient manner, either directly to a retailer or to an inland distribution point. To accomplish this objective and deliver superior service to our import customers, we operate multiple facilities in the Los Angeles area that occupy more than 800,000 square feet. All of these facilities are located within 18 miles of the Southern California ports, making possible a timely and efficient flow of ocean containers to and from our warehouses. To further boost the quality of service and expedite the delivery of ocean freight, our subsidiary PDS Trucking, Inc. also manages a trucking fleet of 125 owner-operators, many of whom service the Southern California ports on a daily basis. To help our customers reduce their import costs, we have extended the hours of operation of our harbor trucking fleet to take maximum advantage of the program implemented by the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to encourage the movement of cargo at night and on weekends to reduce truck traffic during peak daytime hours. Our warehousing and distribution unit performs multiple services specifically designed for importers, including: · warehousing/distribution – receiving inventory to stock in order to fulfill future outbound orders, · value-added services – labeling, price tagging, palletizing, pick/pack and reworking, 8 Table of Contents · transloading – transferring freight from ocean containers to domestic equipment, rail or road, · deconsolidation – the sorting of freight for distribution to multiple outbound destinations, and · consolidation – the collecting of multiple smaller inbound shipments to build full truckloads. Supply Chain Management We use the information from our advanced information system to provide consulting and supply chain management services to our customers. These specialized services, offered through our subsidiary, Pacer Global Logistics, Inc., allow our customers to realize cost savings and concentrate on their core competencies by outsourcing to us the management and transportation of their materials and inventory throughout their supply chains and the distribution of finished goods to the end user. We provide infrastructure and equipment, integrated with our customers’ existing systems, to handle distribution planning, just-in-time delivery and automated ordering. We also manage warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities for selected customers and consult on identifying bottlenecks in our customers’ supply chains by analyzing freight patterns and costs, optimizing facility locations and developing internal policies and procedures. We leverage these capabilities to drive additional volume to our other service offerings. Information Technology Our information technology systems have a scalable architecture that provides a technology migration path which can grow with our business. The systems are designed for electronic interchange of data between our customers and us and an Internet-based connectivity that allows customization and integration to meet our customers’ needs. This interconnection allows us to communicate directly with our customers and transportation service providers. Our systems monitor and track shipments through the transportation life cycle and across various transportation modes; providing timely visibility regarding shipment status, location and estimated delivery times. Our exception notification system informs us of any potential delays so we can alert our customers and other supply chain participants to optimize customer planning activities and to minimize the impact of any problems. Our systems also manage transit times, rates, availability and logistics activity of our transportation service providers, enabling us to plan and execute transactions and freight movements more reliably, efficiently and cost effectively. By monitoring and tracking all containers, chassis and railcars throughout our network, we can identify their location and availability and provide increased equipment utilization and balanced freight flows. Our systems also have the capability to analyze our customers’ usage patterns and needs in an effort to resolve performance bottlenecks, determine optimal distribution locations and identify areas for cost savings throughout their supply chains. We can also prepare and distribute customized reports detailing shipping patterns, volumes, reliability, timeliness and overall transportation costs. We can generate management reports to meet federal highway authority requirements and perform accounting and billing functions. Our technology efforts are continually focused on reducing customer service response time, enhancing the customer service profile database and expanding the number of customers and service providers with which we share data using electronic data interchange applications. We manage our intermodal services with computer systems that enable continuous tracking of cargo containers, chassis and railcars throughout the intermodal system. These systems provide us with performance, utilization and profitability indicators for our intermodal business. Pursuant to a long-term information technology services agreement, APL Limited provides us with the computers, software and other information technology services necessary for the operation of and accounting for our Stacktrain business. We paid an annual fee of $10.4 million in 2006 to APL Limited under this agreement (of which $3.4 million has been subject to a 3% compounded annual increase since May 2003). This agreement with APL Limited has a term expiring in May 2019. Customers We currently provide logistics and transportation services on a nationwide basis to retailers, manufacturers, and other companies, including a number of Fortune 500 and multi-national companies 9 Table of Contents such as Big Lots, C.H. Robinson, General Electric, Sony, Union Pacific, Toyota and Whirlpool, which together represented approximately 19% of our 2006 revenues, as well as numerous middle market companies. Other important customers include The Scotts Company, Shaw Industries, and Sysco. We have served many of our customers for over 15 years. Our sales and customer service organizations, supported by our centralized pricing and logistics management systems, market our intermodal services primarily to intermodal marketing companies. We also market our intermodal services to truck brokers, truckload carriers, the automotive industry and ocean carriers. Through our sales network, and the sales networks of the intermodal marketing companies to which we sell intermodal services, we provide transportation services to more than 5,000 domestic and international shippers. For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2006, one customer contributed 10.3% of our consolidated revenues. For the fiscal years ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, there was no single customer that contributed more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. Sales and Marketing As of December 29, 2006, our Pacer Stacktrain and Pacer Cartage intermodal services were marketed by over 50 sales and customer service representatives. These representatives operate through seven regional and district sales offices and three regional customer service centers that are situated in the major shipping locations across North America. The sales representatives are directly responsible for managing the business relationships with our customers such as intermodal marketing companies, logistics companies, truck brokers, truckload carriers and steamship lines, as well as supporting joint selling efforts directed at the beneficial owner of the freight. In effect, our relationship with the sales force of our various customers enables us to market our intermodal services and directly and indirectly access shippers in major metropolitan areas throughout North America. The customer service representatives are responsible for supporting existing customers and sales representatives by providing cargo tracking services, resolving problems and processing customer inquiries. Our intermodal efforts include a dedicated marketing function that drives our product development, strategic and tactical pricing, yield improvement, branding efforts and marketing communications. As of December 29, 2006, our logistics marketing and sales operations included over 50 direct sales people and agents. All of our sales people are supported by regional sales offices and sales managers located in Livermore (California), Dublin (Ohio), Memphis (Tennessee), Dallas (Texas) and Rutherford (New Jersey). Our direct sales representatives are deployed in major business centers throughout the country and target mid-size to large customers. In early 2006, we further segmented this sales organization into National Account and Regional Account teams. Our national network of commissioned sales agents provides additional geographic coverage and contributes additional business enabling us to achieve volume discounts and balance traffic flows. Compensation for our salaried sales forces is driven by volume growth for our intermodal and over-the-road truckload business. Compensation for our commissioned agents is driven by margin. Our direct sales force, in particular, is trained and encouraged to sell the entire Pacer product portfolio to their customers. Each line of business has product specialists to support the general line sales force on specific cross-selling opportunities. In addition to our domestic sales force, we also have an extensive international network of sales and customer service representatives located in 8 offices and approximately 100 agents worldwide. Development of Our Company We commenced operations as an independent, stand-alone company upon our recapitalization in May 1999. From 1984 until our recapitalization, our Stacktrain business was conducted by various entities owned directly or indirectly by APL Limited. In May 1999, we were recapitalized through the purchase of shares of our common stock from APL Limited by two affiliates of Apollo Management, and an affiliate of each of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and our redemption of a portion of the remaining shares of 10 Table of Contents common stock held by APL Limited. On the date of the recapitalization, we also began providing retail and logistics services to customers through our acquisition of Pacer Logistics. In connection with these transactions, our name was changed from APL Land Transport Services, Inc. to Pacer International, Inc. Pacer Logistics, Inc. was originally incorporated on March 5, 1997 under the name PMT Holdings, Inc., and acquired the successor to a company formed in 1974. Between the time of its formation and our acquisition of Pacer Logistics in May 1999, Pacer Logistics acquired and integrated six logistics services companies. In 2000, we acquired four companies that complemented our business operations and expanded our geographic reach and service offerings for intermodal marketing, highway brokerage, international freight forwarding and other logistics services. In 2001, we integrated our intermodal marketing, highway brokerage and supply chain services business operations into our Pacer Global Logistics, Inc. subsidiary. In June 2002, we completed our initial public offering of common stock, and used the net proceeds to repay a significant portion of our outstanding long-term debt. During June and July 2003, we completed the refinancing of our credit facilities, including the early redemption of $150 million of 11.75% senior subordinated notes originally issued in connection with our May 1999 recapitalization. In August 2003, we completed an underwritten secondary public offering of common stock on behalf of a number of selling stockholders; no new shares were issued and we received no proceeds from this offering. In November 2003 and April 2005, we completed repricings of our credit facility, and in September 2005, we completed an amendment to our credit facility allowing for, among other things, an increase in the cash dividends that can be paid. On January 7, 2004, we filed with the SEC a “shelf” registration statement, providing for the issuance by the Company of up to $150 million in additional common stock, preferred stock and warrants to purchase any of such securities and for the sale by a number of selling stockholders of 8,702,893 shares of common stock. In offerings under the registration statement in April and November 2004, all 8,702,893 shares of common stock of the selling stockholders were sold with no new shares issued or proceeds received by the Company. Upon completion of the offerings, Apollo Management and its affiliated entities no longer owned any shares of our common stock. There are currently no arrangements in place for the Company to issue any additional securities. Suppliers Railroads We have long-term contracts with our primary rail carriers, Union Pacific, CSX, and KCSM in Mexico, and we maintain other operating arrangements with the other North American railroads, including Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad and Canadian National Railroad. These contracts and arrangements generally provide for access to terminals controlled by the railroads as well as support services related to our Stacktrain operations. Through these contracts and arrangements, our intermodal business has established an extensive North American rail transportation network. Our rail brokerage business also maintains contracts with the railroads that govern the transportation services and payment terms pursuant to which the railroads handle intermodal shipments. These contracts are typically of short duration, usually twelve-month terms, and subject to regular renewal or extension. We maintain close working relationships with all of the major railroads in the United States and will continue to focus our efforts on strengthening these relationships. The long-term rail contracts with Union Pacific and CSX represent a majority of our Stacktrain unit’s cost of purchased transportation, while other business with Union Pacific and CSX is covered by shorter-term commercial arrangements. Business with other railroads, including the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, Canadian National Railroad and KCSM, constituted approximately 6.9% of our Stacktrain unit’s cost of purchased transportation in 2006. Through our contracts and arrangements with these rail carriers, we have access to a 52,000 mile rail network throughout North America. Our rail contracts and arrangements generally require the rail carriers to perform point-to-point linehaul transportation and terminal services for us. Pursuant to the 11 Table of Contents service provisions, the rail carriers provide transportation of our intermodal equipment across their rail networks and terminal services related to loading and unloading of containers, equipment movement and general administration. Our rail contracts and arrangements generally establish per container rates for Stacktrain shipments made on the rail carriers’ transportation networks, and the long-term contracts typically provide that we are obligated to transport a specified percentage of our total Stacktrain shipments with each of the rail carriers (subject to the rail carrier’s achievement of certain service performance standards). The terms of our rail contracts and arrangements, including rates, are generally subject to adjustment or renegotiation throughout the term of the contract or arrangement, based on factors such as the continuing fairness of the contract terms, prevailing market conditions and changes in the rail carriers’ costs to provide rail service. Based upon these provisions, and the volume of freight that we ship with each of the rail carriers, we believe that we enjoy competitive transportation rates for our Stacktrain shipments. Agents and Independent Contractors In our long haul and local trucking services operations, we rely on the services of independent agents, who procure business for and manage a group of trucking contractors. Although we own a small number of tractors and trailers, the majority of our truck equipment and drivers are provided by agents and independent contractors. Our relationships with agents and independent contractors allow us to provide customers with a broad range of trucking services without the need to commit capital to acquire and maintain a large trucking fleet. Although our agreements with independent agents and trucking contractors are typically long-term in practice, they are generally terminable by either party on short notice. Independent agents and trucking contractors are compensated on the basis of mileage rates, fixed fees between particular origins and destinations, fixed fees within certain distance-based zones or a fixed percentage of the revenue generated from the shipments that they arrange or haul. Under the terms of our typical lease contracts, independent agents and trucking contractors must pay all of the expenses of operating their equipment, including driver wages and benefits, fuel, physical damage insurance, maintenance and debt service. Local Trucking Companies To support our intermodal operations, we have established a good working relationship with a large network of local truckers in many major urban centers throughout the United States. The quality of these relationships helps ensure reliable pickups and deliveries, which is a major differentiating factor among intermodal marketing companies. Our strategy has been to concentrate business with a select group of local truckers in a particular urban area, which increases our economic value to the local truckers and in turn raises the quality of service that we receive from them. Equipment Our intermodal equipment fleet consists of a large number of double stack railcars, containers and chassis that are owned or subject to short and long-term leases. We lease almost all of our containers, approximately 83% of our chassis and approximately 90% of our doublestack railcars. In addition, all of our railcar equipment is associated with revenue generating arrangements. Our railcar fleet consists of “free running” railcars operating under the publicly reported “BRAN” mark. These railcars are in general service with railroads throughout North America to haul not only our own intermodal containers but also those of the railroads and their other customers. Under this system, our railcars are freely interchanged from one rail carrier to another throughout the North American rail system. To use our railcars, the rail carrier pays us a fee, known as the car hire rate, which takes into account the miles traveled by a railcar and the railcar’s time in service with a railroad. The actual rate payable is determined under our bilateral rate agreement with the railroad, or in the case of a railroad with which we have no rate agreement, under our schedule of car hire rates maintained in the Car Hire Accounting Rate Master (CHARM) administered by Railinc in association with the Association of American Railroads. We are solely responsible for the costs of operating our railcars, and do not have any recourse to our customers for the lease or purchase of our railcars. 12 Table of Contents As of December 29, 2006, our Stacktrain equipment fleet consisted of the following: Owned Leased Total Containers 48’ Containers 18 5,621 5,639 53’ Containers 4 22,915 22,919 Total 22 28,536 28,558 Chassis 20’and 40’ Chassis - 2,449 2,449 48’ Chassis 5,375 3,403 8,778 53’ Chassis 100 20,238 20,338 Total 5,475 26,090 31,565 Doublestack Railcars 203 1,651 1,854 During 2006, we received 2,360 53-ft. leased containers and 4,552 53-ft. and 40-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 2,033 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 1,684 primarily 48-ft. and 40-ft. leased chassis. During 2006, four railcars were destroyed. During 2005, we received 4,422 primarily 53-ft. leased containers and 3,926 primarily 53-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 2,106 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 1,106 primarily 48-ft. leased chassis. During 2005, four railcars were destroyed. During 2004, we received 4,321 primarily 53-ft. leased containers and 3,853 primarily 53-ft. leased chassis, and we returned 1,917 primarily 48-ft leased containers and 2,248 primarily 48-ft. leased chassis. During 2004, three railcars were destroyed. We also own or lease a limited amount of equipment to support our trucking operations. The majority of our trucking operations are conducted through contracts with independent trucking companies and contractors that own and operate their own equipment. Risk Management and Insurance In our rail and highway brokerage operations, we typically require all motor carriers to which we tender freight to carry at least $1,000,000 in truckers’ commercial automobile liability insurance and $100,000 in cargo insurance. Many carriers provide insurance exceeding these minimums. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per container. We maintain an all-risk form of cargo insurance to protect us against cargo damage claims that may not be recoverable from the responsible carriers or their insurers. In our operations as an authorized carrier or warehouseman, we maintain legal liability insurance to protect us against catastrophic claims arising from damage or loss to freight in transit or warehouse storage. We also maintain property damage insurance to protect us against damage to our railcars and intermodal equipment. Our terms of carriage on international and ocean shipments limit our liability consistent with industry standards. We offer our freight forwarding customers the option to purchase cargo insurance for their shipments. We also purchase insurance policies for commercial automobile liability, truckers’ commercial automobile liability, commercial general liability, employers liability, and umbrella and excess umbrella liability, with a total insurance limit of $50 million. Our historical self-retained (deductible) levels vary based on claim frequency, severity and timing factors. Our current deductible level per occurrence for 13 Table of Contents commercial automobile liability is $100,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for truckers’ commercial automobile liability is $1,000,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial general liability is $1,000,000. Our current workers compensation and employers liability deductible is $150,000 per incident. Our current deductible per occurrence for freight damage as an authorized carrier or warehouseman is $250,000, with the exception of our cartage operations which carry a $10,000 deductible. Relationship with APL Limited We are a party to a long-term agreement with APL Limited involving domestic transportation of APL Limited’s international freight by our Stacktrain operation. The majority of APL Limited’s imports to the United States are transported by rail from ports on the West Coast to population centers in the Midwest and Northeast. Domestic intermodal freight that originates in the United States, however, moves predominantly westbound from eastern and Midwestern production centers to consumption centers on the West Coast. Combining the typical westbound freight movement with the predominantly eastbound APL Limited freight movement allows us to achieve higher train-set utilization (loads per train) and higher eastbound/westbound volumes, thereby improving our bargaining position with the railroads regarding contract terms. We also provide APL Limited with equipment repositioning services through which we transport APL Limited’s empty containers from destinations within North America to their West Coast points of origin. To the extent we are able to fill these empty containers with the westbound freight of other customers, we receive compensation from both APL Limited for our repositioning service on a cost reimbursement basis and from the other customers for the shipment of their freight. APL Limited also supplies us with computer software and other information technology services for our Stacktrain business. See “Information Technology,” above. Business Cycle The transportation industry has historically performed cyclically as a result of economic recession, customers’ business cycles, increases in prices charged by third-party carriers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. Because we offer a variety of transportation modes and, we believe, an economical intermodal product, we generally retain shipping volumes and benefit from increased use of our Stacktrain services at the expense of long-haul trucking competitors during down business cycles. In periods of strong economic growth, demand for limited transportation resources can result in increased rail network congestion and resulting operating inefficiencies. Although rail service deterioration increases our costs and may slow demand, we believe that our personnel on-site at many terminals, extensive equipment fleet and customer service capabilities enable us to provide comparatively better service than others affected by rail service deterioration and thereby to retain shipping volumes. We also participate during periods of business expansion when speed of service to fill inventories increases in importance. Competition The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our intermodal business competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers-on-flatcars and containerized intermodal rail services offered directly by railroads. Our logistics business competes primarily against other domestic non-asset-based transportation and logistics companies, asset-based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, freight forwarders and private shipping departments. We also compete with transportation services companies for the services of independent commissioned agents, and with trucklines for the services of independent contractors and drivers. Competition in our intermodal and logistics business is based primarily on freight rates, quality of service, such as damage-free shipments, on-time delivery and consistent transit times, reliable pickup and delivery and scope of operations. Our major competitors include Burlington Northern Santa Fe, Union Pacific, CSX Intermodal and J.B. Hunt Transport. Other competitors include C.H. Robinson, Exel, Hub Group, Alliance Shippers, and the supply chain solutions divisions of Ryder and Menlo Worldwide. Some of these competitors, such as C.H. Robinson, Expeditors International, Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific, have significantly larger operations, revenues and resources than we have. 14 Table of Contents Employees As of December 29, 2006, we had a total of 1,574 employees. None of our employees are represented by unions, and we generally consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. Government Regulation Regulation of Our Trucking and Intermodal Operations The transportation industry has been subject to legislative and regulatory changes that have affected the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and cost of, providing transportation services. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business or consolidated results of operations. Our highway brokerage operations are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or “DOT,” as a national freight broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting as a national freight broker, including surety bonding requirements. Our truck services and local cartage operations provide motor carrier transportation services that require registration with the DOT and compliance with economic regulations administered by the DOT, including a requirement to maintain insurance coverage in minimum prescribed amounts. Other sourcing and distribution activities may be subject to various federal and state food and drug statutes and regulations. Although Congress enacted legislation in 1994 that substantially preempts the authority of states to exercise economic regulation of motor carriers and brokers of freight, we continue to be subject to a variety of state vehicle registration and licensing requirements. We and the carriers upon which we rely are also subject to various federal and state safety and environmental regulations. Although compliance with regulations governing licenses in these areas has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in the past, there can be no assurance that these regulations or changes in these regulations will not adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in the future. Violations of these regulations could also subject us to fines or, in the event of serious violations, suspension or revocation of operating authority as well as increased claims liability. Intermodal operations like ours were exempted from virtually all active regulatory supervision by the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission, predecessor to the regulatory responsibilities now held by the U.S. Surface Transportation Board. Such exemption is revocable by the Surface Transportation Board, but the standards for revocation of regulatory exemptions issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission or Surface Transportation Board are high. While that exemption remains in place, the DOT issued proposed regulations in December 2006 that would make intermodal equipment providers like our Stacktrain division subject to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations for the first time. This proposed regulation would, among other requirements, obligate Stacktrain to register and file with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration an Intermodal Equipment Provider Report, establish a systematic inspection, repair and maintenance program on its chassis and maintain documentation of the program. We are currently reviewing the proposed regulation and evaluating the operational impact if these proposed regulations were to go into effect. Regulation of Our International Freight Forwarding Operations We maintain licenses issued by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission as an ocean transportation intermediary. These licenses govern both our operations as an ocean freight forwarder and as a non-vessel operating common carrier. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for ocean transportation intermediaries, including surety bond requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the regulation and oversight of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space with vessel operating carriers and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating and/or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel operating common carriers are required to publish and maintain tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by commencing enforcement proceedings seeking 15 Table of Contents the assessment of penalties for violation of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and licensing requirements in all countries in which we transact business. We are also licensed as a customs broker by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. All United States customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these requirements. Legal Contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our consolidated statements of operations. These estimates have been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business, and we expect such disputes to continue to arise from time to time in the future. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Note 6. – Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Based on currently available information and advice of counsel, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and that none of these items will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our present assessment of these claims could change, however, based on new information and future events. In addition, even if successful, our defense against certain actions could be costly and could divert the time and resources of our management and staff. Environmental Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental, hazardous materials transportation and occupational health and safety requirements, including those relating to the handling, labeling, shipping and transportation of hazardous materials, discharges of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. In particular, a number of our facilities have underground and above-ground storage tanks for diesel fuel and other petroleum products. These facilities are subject to requirements regarding the storage of such products and the clean-up of any leaks or spills. We could also have liability as a responsible party for costs to clean-up contamination at off-site locations where we have sent, or arranged for the transport of, wastes. We have not received any notices that we are potentially responsible for material clean-up costs at any off-site waste disposal location. We do not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, consolidated results of operations or competitive position as a result of our efforts to comply with environmental requirements, nor do we believe that we have any material environmental liabilities. We also do not expect to incur material capital expenditures for environmental controls in 2007 or 2008. However, future changes in environmental regulations or liabilities from newly discovered environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, competitive position, consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Seasonality Our revenues generally show a seasonal pattern as some customers reduce shipments during and after the winter holiday season. In addition, the auto companies that we serve generally shut down their assembly plants for new model re-tooling during the summer months. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate our business, and if we fail to secure sufficient equipment, capacity or services, we could lose customers and revenues. We are dependent upon transportation equipment such as chassis and containers and rail, truck and ocean transportation services provided by independent third parties. We, along with competitors in our industry, have experienced equipment and capacity shortages in the past, particularly during peak shipping season in October and November. We also depend upon the rail carriers to provide sufficient rail slots on the train to transport our containers and access to the rail terminal for the delivery of our containers for shipment. From time to time, as with other users of Union Pacific’s rail service, we have not been able to obtain sufficient gate reservations for all containers to be shipped on a particular day and have had to wait for the gate reservation necessary to allow the container to enter the rail terminal and to be loaded on the train. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other providers on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Likewise, the intermodal industry is facing excess demand for the current rail network size that is causing network congestion and service delays and allowing rail carriers to implement rate increases. In addition, the trucking industry, including the local drayage community, is facing an ongoing shortage of drivers. This shortage may cause our motor transportation suppliers to increase drivers’ compensation, thereby increasing our cost of providing motor transportation, including the local cartage portion of an intermodal move, to our customers. Driver shortages and tight rail capacity could adversely impact our profitability and limit our ability to expand our intermodal and highway service offerings. Service instability in the intermodal industry could increase costs and decrease demand for our intermodal services. We depend on the major railroads in the United States for substantially all of the intermodal transportation services that we provide. In many markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads we use is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services that we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services. During the past 3 years, high demand for rail transportation, train resource shortages, severe weather and operating inefficiencies have resulted in increased transit times, terminal congestion and decreased equipment velocity. Rail carrier efforts over the past years to improve rail service did not seem to generate the expected improvements. Only recently in 2006 have we seen some progress in the reduction of transit times. While we believe that our customer service capabilities, extensive equipment fleet and network of personnel on-site at many terminals enables us to lessen the impact to our intermodal customers of these service disruptions, rail service issues increase our costs and create a challenging operating environment. To the extent that we operate on rail carriers that experience poor service performance, demand for our intermodal services may be adversely affected. In addition, customers may switch to alternate providers to avoid intermodal transportation delays. Although we have not been adversely affected by past service disruptions resulting from rail industry consolidation and rail network congestion, we could be substantially affected by such service disruptions in the future. Changes in freight rates, as a result of competition in our industry and pricing strategies of our transportation suppliers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The transportation services industry is highly competitive. Our logistics businesses compete primarily against other domestic non-asset based transportation and logistics companies, asset-based transportation and logistics companies, third-party freight brokers, shipping departments of our customers and other freight forwarders. Our intermodal business competes primarily with over-the-road full truckload carriers, conventional intermodal movement of trailers on flat cars, and containerized intermodal rail services offered by railroads and other providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater 17 Table of Contents financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow them to withstand better an economic downturn, reduce their prices more easily than we can or expand or enhance the marketing of their products. There are a number of large companies competing in one or more segments of our industry, although the number of companies with a North American network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers are increasingly soliciting competitive bids for transportation services from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than we are. We also face competition from Internet-based freight exchanges, or electronic bid environments, that provide an online marketplace for buying and selling supply chain services. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on freight rates. In the past, we have experienced downward pressure in the pricing of our intermodal and logistics services that has affected our revenues and operating results. In particular, our intermodal segment has offered lower rates to its customers to match lower rates offered by our railroad competitors in the intermodal business. Rate reductions by truckload carriers may also exert downward pressures on intermodal rates. Such rate reductions could adversely affect the yields of our intermodal product. Rate increases, particularly when taken by our railroad and highway transportation suppliers, may also have an adverse impact if our brokerage operations are unable to obtain commensurate price increases from our customers. For example, during 2005, due to increased demand, all the major rail carriers instituted price increases. Price increases were also taken in 2006. Although the application of rate increases to a portion of our Stacktrain business is limited by our long-term rail contracts, such increases have resulted in higher costs to some of our Stacktrain business and to our rail brokerage operation that we have not been able to fully pass on as quickly as the increases are implemented by the rail carriers. While our Stacktrain operation may benefit from the intermodal rate increases, such rate increases may have the impact of slowing overall demand for intermodal services and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. Congestion, work stoppages, capacity shortages, weather related issues or other disruptions affecting the transportation network could adversely affect our operating results. As transportation services are provided through a network of rail and trucking transportation providers, a disruption in one area or in one sector can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees; since February 2006 negotiations have been in progress between the railroads and rail unions for new collective bargaining agreements to replace the existing contracts which expire at various times over the next twelve months. Our business could also be adversely affected by a work stoppage affecting providers of local trucking services to and from rail terminals. For example, during 2004, independent owner-operators providing local drayage services in parts of California refused to transport shipments to and from the rail facilities, leading to terminal congestion and a Union Pacific embargo on shipments to Northern California destinations which adversely affected our consolidated results of operations in the second quarter of 2004. We have also experienced service disruptions due to other conditions, such as hurricanes, flooding and other adverse weather conditions, that hinder the railroads’ and local trucking companies’ ability to provide transportation services and negatively impact our operating results. Work stoppages affecting seaports may also adversely impact our operations as we experienced in the second half of 2002 when West Coast ports were shut down as a result of a labor dispute with the longshoremen who offload freight that we subsequently transport. Third party international loadings, container repositioning revenue and railcar utilization revenues from our intermodal segment were adversely impacted during the port shutdown. The shutdown also impacted our local cartage and harbor drayage on the West Coast with lower volumes and our international freight forwarding operations with reduced ship sailings. Other work stoppages, slowdowns or other disruptions, such as those that could result from an act of terrorism or war, are beyond our control and could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows in both our intermodal and logistics segments, particularly if they have a material effect on major railroad interchange facilities or areas through which significant amounts of our rail shipments pass, such as the Los Angeles and Chicago gateways. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to develop, integrate, upgrade or replace our information technology systems, we may lose orders and customers or incur costs beyond our expectations. Increasingly, we compete for customers based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the information technologies that support our current services or any new services that we may introduce. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or our customers’ inability to access or interact with our website and other systems could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent our customers from placing orders, or cause us to lose orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future freight volumes will decline. In addition, we expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain management service providers. If we fail to hire qualified personnel to implement and maintain our information technology systems or fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes, meet the demands of our customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose orders and customers which could adversely affect our business. Our revenues could be reduced by the loss of major customers. We have derived, and believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from our largest customers. In 2006, Union Pacific affiliate(s) accounted for approximately 10.3% of our revenues and our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 42.2% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a significant change in their shipping patterns could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and prospects. For example, during 2005, we completed the transition of one of our highway brokerage customers to another service provider, reducing revenues by approximately $128 million in our logistics segment. The impact of this loss on consolidated income from operations was significantly less, however, due to the low margins provided by this customer. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. We are exposed to claims related to property damage, personal injury, cargo loss and damage and workers’ compensation. We carry significant insurance with third party insurance carriers. The cost of such insurance has increased over the past five years, reflecting our operational growth, the insurance environment in our industry and our claim experience. We have maintained self-retained (deductible) levels for our public liability risk exposures to optimize cost efficiency, reflecting our increasing operating volume and claim experience. Our current deductible per occurrence for commercial automobile liability is $100,000. Our current deductible level for truckers’ commercial automobile liability is $1,000,000. Our current deductible level per occurrence for commercial general liability is $1,000,000. Our current workers compensation and employers liability deductible is $150,000 per incident. Our current deductible per occurrence for freight damage as an authorized motor carrier or warehouseman is $250,000, except for our cartage operations which carry a $10,000 deductible. We are also responsible for legal expenses within our deductible levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We currently reserve the estimated probable loss for incurred but not yet paid claim amounts and expenses, and regularly evaluate and adjust our claim reserves to reflect actual experience. If the ultimate results differ from our estimates, we could incur costs in excess of reserved amounts. To cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels, we maintain insurance with insurance companies that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. If we have difficulty attracting and retaining agents and independent contractors, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely extensively on the services of agents and independent contractors to provide our trucking services. We rely on a fleet of vehicles which are owned and operated by independent trucking contractors and on agents representing groups of trucking contractors to transport customers’ goods by truck. Although 19 Table of Contents we believe our relationships with our agents and independent contractors are good, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them. Contracts with agents and independent contractors are, in most cases, terminable upon short notice by either party. If an agent terminates its relationship with us, some customers and independent contractors with which such agent has a direct relationship may also terminate their relationship with us. We may have difficulty replacing our agents and independent contractors with equally qualified persons. We compete with transportation service companies and trucking companies for the services of agents and with trucking companies for the services of independent contractors and drivers. The pool of agents, contractors and drivers is limited, and therefore competition from other transportation service companies and trucking companies can increase the price we must pay to obtain services from agents, contractors and drivers. The industry is currently experiencing a shortage of independent contractors resulting in increased compensation expenses to us and our competitors who also rely on them. In addition, because independent contractors are not employees, they may not be as loyal to our company, requiring us to pay more to retain their services and to implement aggressive recruitment efforts to offset turnover. If we are unable to attract or retain agents and independent contractors or need to increase the amount paid for their services, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected and we could experience difficulty increasing our business volume. This adverse effect was seen in 2005 and 2006 as the cost of qualified driver acquisition and retention increased and negatively impacted our consolidated results of operations. Our customers who are also competitors could transfer their business to their non-competitors and our suppliers who are also competitors could provide preferences to others, including their own competing operations, which in both cases would decrease our profitability. As a result of our company operating in two distinct but related channels, we buy and sell transportation services from and to many companies with which we compete. For example, Hub Group, NYK Logistics and Alliance Shippers, three of the 10 largest customers of our Stacktrain operations, who accounted for 14% of the 2006 revenues of our intermodal segment operations, are also competitors. It is possible that these customers could transfer their business away from us to other companies with which they do not compete. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our intermodal operations. In addition, rather than outsourcing their transportation logistics requirements to us, some of our customers could decide to provide these services internally, which could further adversely affect our business volumes and revenues. Similarly, our Stacktrain business competes in some cases with the intermodal service offerings of our rail transportation providers and their affiliated equipment provider operations. For example, CSX Intermodal, one of our primary rail transportation providers, offers transcontinental and other services that compete with our Stacktrain services. Our rail transportation providers may provide preferences to their internal service offerings or to other customers that are not competitors. These preferences could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our intermodal operations and on our ability to continue to provide efficient intermodal services to our customers. We, our suppliers and our customers are subject to changes in government regulation which could result in additional costs and thereby affect our consolidated results of operations. The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect its economics. Although we primarily operate in the intermodal segment of the transportation industry, which has been essentially deregulated, changes in the levels of regulatory activity in the intermodal segment could potentially affect us and our suppliers and customers. Our trucking operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage are subject to regulation by the DOT and various state and local agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and insurance requirements. As an example, on January 4, 2004, revised DOT hours of service regulations became effective and after further regulatory and court action, were revised effective October 1, 2005. These revised regulations reduced the amount of time that drivers can spend driving. They may also affect our ability to make timely deliveries. Since the new regulations went into effect, we have endeavored to make appropriate pricing, operational and training adjustments to address the new regulations and mitigate their impact on our consolidated results of operations. While difficult to quantify, we believe that the new rules have negatively impacted our operating results due to the slight 20 Table of Contents productivity decreases experienced by our drivers. If these changes increase the amounts charged by the trucking companies and independent contractors whom we engage to provide transportation for our customers, and we cannot pass the additional costs through to our customers, our consolidated operating results could continue to be adversely affected. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for our transportation services or require the outlay of significant additional costs. Additional expenditures incurred by us, or by our suppliers and passed on to us, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. For instance, in December 2006, the DOT issued proposed regulations mandated by the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act enacted in August 2005. The proposed regulations would regulate intermodal equipment providers like our Stacktrain division and require them to establish a systematic inspection, repair and maintenance program on chassis and to provide a means to effectively respond to driver and motor carrier reports about chassis defects and deficiencies. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of these proposed regulations and determining the potential cost and methods of compliance. While we are not able to quantify the impact at this time, we expect that compliance with these regulations, should they to go into effect without substantial revision, would likely increase our chassis maintenance and repair costs. Similarly, a recent ruling by the Surface Transportation Board found that the railroad’s practice of assessing fuel surcharges based on a percentage calculation of the base rate charged to the shipper was unreasonable. Although the ruling expressly does not apply to intermodal shipments, if the railroads change their methodology for assessing fuel surcharges on intermodal traffic to a per mile or other calculation, our Pacer Stacktrain and rail brokerage units may also change their fuel surcharge methodology. Such a change may adversely affect our revenues. Other potential effects are more difficult to quantify as we generally pass through fuel surcharges to our customers but may experience timing issues where we are unable to adjust charges to our customers to match fuel adjustments from our suppliers. In addition, we have a substantial number of wholesale customers who provide ocean carriage of intermodal shipments. These wholesale customers and our own international freight forwarding operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission, U.S. Customs and other international, foreign, federal and state authorities. Regulatory changes in the ocean shipping or international freight forwarding industries could adversely affect our freight forwarding operations or have a material impact on the competitiveness or efficiency of operations of our various ocean carrier customers, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are also affected by new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rules and regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. Our efforts to comply with these evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. During 2004, for instance, we paid our auditors and consultants approximately $4.1 million pre-tax ($0.07 per diluted share after tax) to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. On-going costs of compliance in 2005 and 2006 paid to our auditors and consultants was approximately $1.8 million pre-tax ($0.03 per diluted share after tax) and $0.8 million pre-tax ($0.01 per diluted share after tax), respectively. In addition to the time and expense, these changing laws, regulations and standards impose other risks. For instance, while we have been able to determine in 2006 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, may prevent us and our auditors from concluding in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Such a conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective could adversely impact our reputation with investors and our stock price. If we fail to comply with or lose any required licenses, governmental regulators could assess penalties against us or issue a cease and desist order against our operations which are not in compliance. Our highway brokerage operation is licensed by the DOT as a broker in arranging for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. The DOT has established requirements for acting in this capacity, including insurance and surety bond requirements. Our truck services and local cartage 21 Table of Contents operations are regulated as motor carriers by the DOT and various state agencies, subjecting these operations to insurance, surety bond, safety and other regulatory requirements. Our international freight forwarding operation is licensed as an ocean transportation intermediary by the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission regulates ocean freight forwarders and non-vessel operating common carriers like us that contract for space with the actual vessel operator and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the United States. Non-vessel operating common carriers must publish and maintain tariffs for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the United States. The Federal Maritime Commission may enforce these regulations by instituting proceedings seeking the assessment of penalties for violations of these regulations. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the United States, the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than in the United States. Our international freight forwarding operation is also licensed, regulated and subject to periodic audit as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of Treasury in each United States customs district in which we do business. In other jurisdictions where we perform customs brokerage services, we are licensed, where necessary, by the appropriate governmental authority. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of any of these governmental regulators, and any resultant suspension or loss of our licenses, could result in penalties or a cease and desist order against any operations that are not in compliance. Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 29, 2006, we have significantly reduced our long-term debt to $59.0 million. We have the ability to incur new debt, subject to limitations in our credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: · Payments on our indebtedness will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; · A substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows could inhibit our ability to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; · We may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · Our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; · Our debt level reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; · Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; and · All of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations. Our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions which may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, our credit agreement restricts or limits our ability to: (1) redeem or repurchase capital stock; (2) prepay, redeem or purchase debt; (3) incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (4) make loans and investments; (5) incur additional indebtedness; 22 Table of Contents (6) amend or otherwise change debt and other material agreements; (7) make capital expenditures; (8) engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; (9) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (10) change our primary business. Our credit facility also requires us to satisfy interest coverage and leverage ratios. A breach of any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt agreements could result in defaults under these agreements. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets. We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things: · Our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; and · The future availability of borrowings under our credit facility or any successor facility, the availability of which may depend on, among other things, our complying with certain covenants. If our operating results and borrowings under our credit facility are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. There is no assurance that we can affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we lose key personnel and qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be weakened which could adversely affect our operating results and ability to grow our business. We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. The head of our Company since May 1999, Don Orris, recently announced his intention to retire by the end of March 2007, and in connection with his retirement, Tom Shurstad who has led our Stacktrain division since January 2002 was promoted to President and Mike Uremovich who has been Vice Chairman since October 2003 was promoted to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. While we believe that the experience of these promoted executives will facilitate a smooth transition of the Company’s leadership and they will continue to build a strong management team, we may experience additional personnel changes during this transition period. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition or cash flows. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. Because our senior management team has unique experience with our company and within the transportation industry, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operations. In addition to their unique experience, our management team has fostered key relationships with our suppliers and customers. Such relationships are especially important in a non-asset based company such as ours. Loss of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We have an extensive relationship with APL Limited, and we depend on APL Limited for essential services. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected if APL Limited failed or refused to provide such services or terminated the relationship. Pursuant to long-term contracts that expire in May 2019, APL Limited, the former owner of our Stacktrain services business, supplies us with chassis from its equipment fleet for the transport of 23 Table of Contents international freight on behalf of other international shippers. In addition, we transport APL Limited’s international cargo on our Stacktrain network to locations in the United States using chassis and equipment supplied by APL Limited. The additional volume attributable to the transport of APL Limited’s international cargo contributes to our ability to obtain favorable provisions in our rail contracts. APL Limited pays us a fee for repositioning its empty containers within North America so that the containers can be reused in trans-Pacific shipping operations. In addition, APL Limited is currently providing us with computers, software and other information technology services necessary for the operation of our Stacktrain business pursuant to a long-term contract that expires in May 2019. To replace the information technology services provided by APL Limited would require substantial resources and time. If any of our contracts with APL Limited were terminated or if APL Limited were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these contracts, our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we make future acquisitions, they may be financed in a way that reduces our reported earnings or imposes additional restrictions on our business. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our reported earnings or reduce earnings per share and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, any financing that we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business. If we are unable to identify, make and successfully integrate acquisitions, our profitability could be adversely affected. Identifying, acquiring and integrating businesses requires substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to customer service and market share. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. These risks include: · unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; · difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations and technologies; · the need to manage a significantly larger and more geographically dispersed business; · impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; · the cost of integrating and documenting the internal controls of the acquired business and potential material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; · diversion of management’s attention from ongoing development of our business or other business concerns; · potential loss of customers; · failure to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; and · the use of substantial amounts of our available cash. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past and we may consider acquiring businesses in the future that provide complementary services to those we currently provide or that expand our geographic presence. We cannot predict whether we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire them on reasonable terms or at all, and a failure to do so could limit our ability to expand our business. While we believe that we have sufficient financial and management resources and experience to successfully conduct our acquisition activities and integrate the acquired businesses into our operations, our acquisition activities involve more difficult integration issues than those of many other companies because 24 Table of Contents the value of the companies we acquire comes mostly from their business relationships, rather than their tangible assets. The integration of business relationships poses more of a risk than the integration of tangible assets because relationships may suddenly weaken or terminate, or key personnel responsible for those relationships may depart. Further, logistics businesses that we have acquired and that we may acquire in the future compete with many customers of our Stacktrain operations, and these customers may shift their business elsewhere if they believe our logistics operations receive favorable treatment from our Stacktrain operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate any business that we may acquire in the future, we could experience difficulties with customers, personnel or others, and our acquisitions might not enhance our competitive position, business or financial prospects. As we expand our services internationally, we may become subject to international economic and political risks. A portion of our business is providing services internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues in each of 2006 and 2005 and 10% in 2004. Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Significant expansion of our services in foreign countries will expose us to the increased effect of foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these changes. Our operating results are subject to cyclical fluctuations and our quarterly revenues may also fluctuate, potentially affecting our stock price. Historically, sectors of the transportation industry have been cyclical as a result of economic recession, customers’ business cycles, increases in prices charged by third-party carriers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors such as changes in fuel costs over which we have no control. Increased operating expenses incurred by third-party carriers can be expected to result in higher costs to us, and our net revenues and income from operations could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of increased transportation costs. We have a large number of customers in the automotive and consumer goods industries. If these customers experience cyclical movements in their business activity, due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other factors over which we have no control, the volume of freight shipped by those customers may decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Any unexpected reduction in revenues for a particular quarter could cause our quarterly operating results to be below the expectations of public market analysts or stockholders. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may fall significantly. A determination by regulators that our independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees, rather than independent contractors. In the future these authorities could be successful in asserting this position, or the interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors could change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, worker’s compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. Our business model assumes that our independent contractors are not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above increased costs would impair our competitiveness in the industry and materially adversely affect our operating results. If the markets in which we operate do not grow, our business could be adversely affected. The failure of the transportation and logistics industries and their segments, including the third-party logistics market, to continue to grow may have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because we have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable could be prevented. Provisions of our charter and bylaws or Tennessee law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: · Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to thwart a takeover attempt; · A classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the Board of Directors; · Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · Requiring super-majority voting to effect particular amendments to our restated charter and amended bylaws; · Limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; · Requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders unless the stockholders unanimously agree to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and · Prohibiting business combinations with interested stockholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the Tennessee Greenmail Act and the Tennessee Control Share Acquisition Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Should we not be able to declare and pay cash dividends as anticipated, our stock price could be negatively impacted. During 2005, we completed an amendment to our credit agreement that increases the maximum aggregate cash dividends payable by us. During the third quarter of 2005 we declared and paid our first quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we declared our second quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share and paid the dividend in January 2006. During 2006, we declared four quarterly dividends of $0.15 per common share each. The declaration of future dividends by the Company and the amount thereof is in the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, compliance with financial ratios and other limitations in our credit agreement, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay dividends at all or at this level in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 