Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in shares of our common stock or if you otherwise receive ownership of our common stock, you should be aware that there are various risks which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including those described below. We urge you to carefully consider these risk 4 Table of Contents factors together with all of the other information included in this filing, the information incorporated in this filing, and other risks and uncertainties identified in Zapata’s other public reports, filings made with the SEC, press releases and public statements made by authorized officers of Zapata before you decide to purchase or make an investment decision regarding our common stock. Volatility in global credit markets may impact the Company’s ability to obtain financing to fund acquisitions. Zapata’s ability to consummate an acquisition may be largely dependent on our ability to obtain financing. The current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, may impact our ability to obtain sufficient credit to finance an acquisition until the conditions become more favorable. We may not be successful in identifying any suitable future acquisition opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any suitable future acquisitions, and, if an acquisition does occur, there is no assurance that it will be successful in enhancing our business or will increase our earnings or not materially adversely affect our financial condition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete suitable transactions or increase the cost that must be paid. Future acquisitions could also divert a substantial amount of our time, result in reductions in earnings or may be difficult to integrate with existing operations. We may, in the future, issue additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our stockholders. Depending upon the size and number of any future acquisitions, we may also borrow money to fund our acquisitions. In that event, our stockholders would be subject to the risks normally associated with leveraged transactions, including the inability to service the debt or the dedication of a significant amount of cash flow to service the debt, limitations on our ability to secure future financing and the imposition of certain operating restrictions. The market liquidity for our common stock is relatively low and may make it difficult to purchase or sell our stock. As of February 24, 2009, the Company had 19,276,334 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our stock during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 5,500 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock could affect a stockholder’s ability to sell at a price satisfactory to that stockholder. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed an investment company and we may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. Since the December 2006 sale of its Omega shares, Zapata has held substantially all of its assets in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in U.S. Government Agency and Treasury securities, and has held no “investment securities.” In addition, Zapata has not held, and does not hold, itself out as an investment company. Zapata has been conducting a good faith search for a merger or acquisition candidate, and has repeatedly and publicly disclosed its intention to acquire such a business. However, as of the date of this Report, due to a variety of factors including the current global economic and financial market conditions and the significant deterioration of the credit markets, competitive pressures in the market and Zapata’s limited funds (as compared to many competitors) available for such an acquisition, it has been unable to consummate such a transaction. Based on the foregoing, Zapata believes that it is not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If the SEC or a Court were to disagree with Zapata, the Company could be required to register as an investment company. This would negatively affect our ability to consummate an acquisition of an operating company, subjecting us to disclosure and accounting rules geared toward investment, rather than operating, companies; limiting our ability to borrow money, issue options, issue multiple classes of stock and debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates; and requiring Zapata to 5 Table of Contents undertake significant costs and expenses to meet the disclosure and regulatory requirements to which it would be subject as a registered investment company. Since we already meet the ownership criteria of the personal holding company rules, we may continue to pay an additional tax on future undistributed personal holding company income if Zapata Corporate generates passive income in excess of operating expenses. Section 541 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”), subjects a corporation, which is a “personal holding company” as defined in the IRC, to a 15% tax on “undistributed personal holding company income” in addition to the corporation’s normal income tax. Generally, undistributed personal holding company income is based on taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, most notably a reduction for federal income taxes. Personal holding company income is comprised primarily of passive investment income plus, under certain circumstances, personal service income. A corporation is generally considered to be a personal holding company if (1) 60% or more of its adjusted ordinary gross income is personal holding company income and (2) 50% or more of its outstanding common stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of the taxable year. The Company believes that five or fewer of Zapata’s stockholders hold 50% or more of its outstanding common stock for purposes of IRC Section 541 and substantially all of the Company’s gross income qualifies as personal holding company income. However, as of December 31, 2008, Zapata and its domestic subsidiaries had no undistributed personal holding company income due to losses generated by the consolidated tax filing group and therefore has not recorded a personal holding company tax liability. Depending on the dates and sizes of future business combination transactions, it is possible that Zapata or its domestic subsidiaries could have at least 60% of adjusted ordinary gross income consist of personal holding company income as discussed above. In addition, depending on the concentration of Company stock, it is possible that more than 50% of our stock will continue to be owned by five or fewer stockholders. Thus, there can be no assurance that Zapata will not be subject to this tax in the future that in turn may materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we continue to be subject to this tax, future statutory tax rate increases could significantly increase consolidated tax expense and adversely affect operating results and cash flows. A change of ownership could reduce the benefits associated with the Company’s tax assets. A change of ownership pursuant to Section 382 of the IRC could significantly impact or possibly eliminate our ability to utilize our net operating losses and/or alternative minimum tax credits. An ownership change for this purpose is generally a change in the majority ownership of a company over a three year period. Our Company is majority-owned by the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership. As a result of this ownership, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Our majority stockholder, the Malcolm I. Glazer Family Limited Partnership, has the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. In addition, any action requiring a simple-majority stockholder vote can be determined solely by our majority stockholder. This includes the ability to elect all members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, such as merger and acquisition decisions, and the election of directors, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This level of ownership may also have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Zapata and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that a nominating/corporate governance 6 Table of Contents committee be in place that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that a compensation committee be in place that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. Though we have utilized exemptions (1) and (2) above, the Company currently has a Compensation Committee comprised entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have a compensation committee comprised entirely of independent directors, nor that we will continue to utilize the other exemptions while we are a controlled company. Agreements and transactions involving former subsidiaries or related parties may give rise to future claims that could materially adversely impact our capital resources. Throughout our history, we have entered into numerous transactions relating to the sale, disposal or spin-off of partially and wholly owned subsidiaries, including the recent sale of shares of Omega Protein. We may have continuing obligations pursuant to certain of these transactions, including obligations to indemnify other parties to agreements or be subject to risks resulting from these transactions. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, we were notified by Weatherford International Inc. (“Weatherford”) of a claim for reimbursement in connection with the investigation and cleanup of purported environmental contamination at two properties formerly owned by a non-operating Zapata subsidiary. The claim was made under an indemnification provision given by Zapata to Weatherford in a 1995 asset purchase agreement and relates to alleged environmental contamination that purportedly existed on the properties prior to the date of the sale. See Item 8, “Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies” for further description of the Weatherford claim. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur costs and expenses in excess of our reserve in connection with Weatherford. Litigation defense and settlement costs may be material. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any pending litigation in which we are involved, or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not presently reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a shareholder vote and may be material to the Company. Any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and since we have not yet identified any additional assets, property or business that we may acquire or develop, potential investors will have virtually no substantive information about any such new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in the company. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any future acquisitions, stockholders may not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, or access to any information about any new business until such time as a transaction is completed and we file a report with the SEC disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. For example, during September and October 2003, stockholders were informed through press releases and SEC filings that we had acquired a significant stake in Safety Components International, Inc. (“Safety Components”). Such transactions materially affected our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the Safety Components acquisition, we utilized approximately $47.8 million of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments to complete the acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to business that we may acquire in the future. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that 7 Table of Contents we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could also result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 