Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or our other filings with the SEC. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed below. If any of the following risks, or other risks and uncertainties, actually occurred, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.As of December 31, 2013, we had total indebtedness of $560.1 million and $48.2 million of undrawn availability under our $50.0 million senior secured super-priority revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). In addition, subject to the restrictions in our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness, which may be secured, from time to time.The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:•making it more difficult for us to make payments on our outstanding debt obligations;•limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt;•limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions;•limiting our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and•exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates.In addition, the indenture governing our 11.00% / 11.75% senior PIK toggle notes due 2015 (the "Toggle Notes") includes a mandatory redemption provision. Under the mandatory redemption provisions of the Toggle Notes, $21.2 million of principal balance outstanding was due and paid on August 23, 2013. We made this payment with cash from operations. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results from Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our ability to pay or to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control.Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.The indentures governing our Toggle Notes, our 8.00% senior secured notes due 2016 (the "Senior Secured Notes") and our 8.00% senior PIK exchangeable notes due 2017 (the "PIK Exchangeable Notes") contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:•incur additional indebtedness;•make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments;•dispose of our assets;•grant liens on our assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets; and•make payments to us (in the case of our restricted subsidiaries).In addition, our Credit Facility contains other and more restrictive covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets, other than assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, as security under our Credit Facility. If the lenders under 20our Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Facility and our other indebtedness.We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth and operating improvements will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Credit Facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, if at all.The current state of the economy and future economic conditions may adversely impact our business.The U.S. economy continues to experience difficult conditions. Burdened by economic constraints, patients have delayed or canceled non-emergency surgical procedures. It is difficult to predict the degree to which our business will continue to be impacted by such conditions or the course of the economy in the future.We depend on payments from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs and managed care organizations. If these payments are reduced or eliminated, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.We are dependent upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our surgical facilities. The amounts that our surgical facilities receive in payment for their services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including Medicare, Medicaid and state regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions and reduced reimbursement schedules of third-party payors, Congressional changes and refinements to the Medicare ASC payment system and CMS refinements to Medicare's reimbursement policies. If amounts that our surgical facilities receive in payment for their services are adversely affected by any of these factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to negotiate contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships with private third-party payors, our revenues and operating income will decrease.Payments from private third-party payors, including state workers' compensation programs, represented 59.7%, 62.5% and 66.7% of our patient service revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Most of these payments came from third-party payors with which our facilities have contracts. Managed care companies such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, which offer prepaid and discounted medical service packages, represent a growing segment of private third-party payors. If we fail to enter into favorable contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships with managed care organizations, our revenues may decrease. Cost containment measures, such as fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, reductions in reimbursement schedules by third-party payors and closed provider networks, could also cause a reduction of our revenues in the future. Some of our payments from third-party payors come from third-party payors with which our surgical facilities do not have a contract. In those cases, commonly known as “out-of-network” services, we generally charge the patients the same co-payment or other patient responsibility amounts that we would have charged had our center had a contract with the payor. We also submit a claim for the services to the payor along with full disclosure that our surgical facility has charged the patient an in-network patient responsibility amount. Historically, those third-party payors who do not have contracts with our surgical facilities typically have paid our claims at higher than comparable contracted rates. However, there is a growing trend for third-party payors to adopt out-of-network fee schedules that are more comparable to our contracted rates or to take other steps to discourage their enrollees from seeking treatment at out-of-network surgical facilities. In these cases, we seek to enter into contracts with the payors. In certain situations, we have seen an increase in the volume of cases in those instances where we transition from out-of-network to in-network billing, although we may experience an overall decrease in revenues to the surgical facility. We can provide no assurance that we will see a sufficient increase in volume of cases to compensate for the decrease in per case revenues where we transition from out-of-network to in-network billing.Payments from workers' compensation payors represented approximately 9.2%, 10.1% and 10.9% of our patient service revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Several states have recently considered or implemented workers' compensation provider fee schedules. In some cases, the fee schedule rates contain lower rates than the rates our surgical facilities have historically been paid for the same services. If the trend of states adopting lower workers' compensation fee schedules continues, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, our future growth could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected.Our strategy is to increase our revenues and earnings by continuing to focus on existing surgical facilities and continuing to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities. Between January 1999 and December 31, 2013, we acquired 57 surgical facilities and developed 24 surgical facilities. We have subsequently divested 32 of these surgical facilities. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition and development opportunities and to negotiate and complete acquisitions and new projects on favorable terms. In addition, our acquisition and development program requires substantial capital resources, and we may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these activities. As a result, we may take actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including incurring substantial debt. Sufficient financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.21We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring and developing additional surgical facilities, and may have difficulty operating and integrating those surgical facilities.If we acquire or develop additional surgical facilities, we may be unable to successfully operate the surgical facilities, and we may experience difficulty in integrating their operations and personnel. For example, in some acquisitions, we have experienced delays in implementing standard operating procedures and systems and improving existing managed care agreements and the mix of specialties offered at the surgical facilities. Following the acquisition of a surgical facility, key physicians may cease to use the facility or we may be unable to retain key management personnel. If we acquire the assets of a surgical facility rather than ownership in the entity that owns the surgical facility, we may be unable to assume the surgical facility's existing managed care contracts and may have to renegotiate, or risk losing, one or more of the surgical facility's managed care contracts. We may also be unable to collect the accounts receivable of an acquired surgical facility. We may also experience negative effects on our reported results of operations because of acquisition-related charges and potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles.In addition, we may acquire surgical facilities with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we maintain professional and general liability insurance, we do not maintain insurance specifically covering any unknown or contingent liabilities that may have occurred prior to the acquisition of companies and surgical facilities. In some cases, our right to indemnification for these liabilities may be subject to negotiated limits.In developing new surgical facilities, we may be unable to attract physicians to use our facilities or contract with third-party payors. In addition, our newly developed surgical facilities typically incur net losses during the initial periods of operation and, unless and until their case loads grow, they generally experience lower total revenues and operating margins than established surgical facilities. Integrating a new surgical facility could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and other key personnel. If we are unable to timely and efficiently integrate an acquired or newly developed facility, our business could suffer.Efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare facilities could prevent us from acquiring additional surgical facilities, renovating our existing facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer.Some states require prior approval for the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare facilities or expansion of the services the facilities offer. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services, as well as the financial resources and operational experience of the potential new owners of existing healthcare facilities. In many of the states in which we currently operate, certificates of need must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters. The remaining states in which we now or may in the future operate may adopt similar legislation. Our costs of obtaining a certificate of need could be significant, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the certificates of need or other required approvals for additional or expanded surgical facilities or services in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a surgical facility, we may agree to replace or expand the acquired facility. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional surgical facilities, expand healthcare services we provide at these facilities or replace or expand acquired facilities.If we fail to maintain good relationships with the physicians who use our surgical facilities, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.Our business depends upon the efforts and success of the physicians who provide medical services at our surgical facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. These physicians are not employees of our surgical facilities and are not contractually required to use our facilities. We generally do not enter into contracts with physicians who use our surgical facilities, other than partnership and operating agreements with physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities, provider agreements with anesthesiology groups that provide anesthesiology services in our surgical facilities, medical director agreements and pain clinic agreements. Physicians who use our surgical facilities also use other facilities or hospitals and may choose to perform procedures in an office-based setting that might otherwise be performed at our surgical facilities. In recent years, pain management and gastrointestinal procedures have been performed increasingly in an office-based setting. Although physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities are subject to agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities, these agreements may not restrict procedures performed in a physician office or in other unrelated facilities. Also, these agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities are difficult to enforce, and we may be unsuccessful in preventing physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities from acquiring interests in competing facilities.In addition, the physicians who use our surgical facilities may choose not to accept patients who pay for services through certain third-party payors, which could reduce our revenues. From time to time, we may have disputes with physicians who use our surgical facilities and/or own interests in our surgical facilities or our company. Our revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced if we lost our relationship with one or more key physicians or groups of physicians, or if such physicians or groups reduce their use of our surgical facilities. In addition, any damage to the reputation of a key physician or group of physicians or the failure of these physicians to provide quality medical care or adhere to professional guidelines at our surgical facilities could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenues.We cannot predict the effect that healthcare reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The Healthcare Reform Acts dramatically alter the United States healthcare system and are intended to decrease the number of uninsured Americans and reduce overall healthcare costs. The Healthcare Reform Acts attempt to achieve these goals by, among other things, requiring 22most Americans to obtain health insurance, expanding Medicare and Medicaid eligibility, reducing Medicare and Medicaid payments, expanding the Medicare program's use of value-based purchasing programs, tying hospital payments to the satisfaction of certain quality criteria, and bundling payments to hospitals and other providers. The Healthcare Reform Acts also contain a number of measures that are intended to reduce fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, such as requiring the use of RACs in the Medicaid program expanding the scope of the federal False Claims Act and generally prohibiting physician-owned hospitals from adding new physician owners or increasing the number of beds and operating rooms for which they are licensed. The Healthcare Reform Acts provide for additional enforcement tools, cooperation between agencies, and funding for enforcement. Since their enactment, the Healthcare Reform Acts have been subject to a number of challenges to its constitutionality; however, on June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld most of the Healthcare Reform Acts, including the “individual mandate” provision, which generally requires all individuals to purchase healthcare insurance or pay a penalty. The only provision of the Healthcare Reform Acts that the Court struck down as unconstitutional was the provision that would have allowed the federal government to revoke all federal Medicaid funding to any state that did not expand its Medicaid program. In response to the ruling, a number of states have already indicated that they will not expand their Medicaid programs, which would result in the Healthcare Reform Acts not providing coverage to some low-income persons in those states. In addition, a number of provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts that were to become effective in 2014 have been delayed until 2015 or 2016, and several bills have been and will likely continue to be introduced in Congress to defund, repeal or amend all or significant provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts. It is difficult to predict the impact the Healthcare Reform Acts will have on our operations given the delay in implementing regulations and possible amendment, defunding or repeal of elements of the Healthcare Reform Acts. However, depending on how the Healthcare Reform Acts are ultimately interpreted, amended and implemented, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we fail to comply with legislative and regulatory rules relating to privacy and security of patient health information and standards for electronic transactions, we may experience delays in payment of claims and increased costs and be subject to substantial fines.HIPAA mandates the adoption of privacy, security and integrity standards related to patient information. HIPAA also standardizes the method for identifying providers, employers, health plans and patients. We believe that we are in compliance with the HIPAA regulations. However, if we fail to comply with the requirements of HIPAA, we could be subject to significant penalties under a tiered penalty system with penalties of up to $50,000 per violation with a maximum civil penalty of $1.5 million in a calendar year for violations of the same requirement. In addition, State Attorneys General could bring civil actions seeking either injunction or damages of up to $25,000 for patient privacy or security violations that affect the residents of their state. Applicable state privacy and information security laws could also impose additional penalties.A cyber security incident could cause a violation of HIPAA, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (“IT”) security systems causing an IT security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our IT business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. In addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of patient health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information.If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the operation of our surgical facilities, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.We are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our surgical facilities meet various licensing, certification and other requirements.If we fail or have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including becoming the subject of cease and desist orders, the loss of our licenses to operate and disqualification from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs.In pursuing our growth strategy, we may seek to expand our presence into new geographic markets. In new geographic markets, we may encounter laws and regulations that differ from those applicable to our current operations. If we are unable to comply with these legal requirements in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to expand geographically.Our revenues will decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of payors and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenues and profitability.For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we derived 33.5%, 30.5% and 25.6% of our revenues, respectively, from government payors, including 32.4%, 29.8% and 24.8% from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, respectively. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the timing of payments to our facilities. Additionally, the BCA of 2011 requires $1.2 trillion in automatic across-the-board spending reductions for FFY 2013 through FFY 2021, split evenly between domestic and defense spending. While certain programs (including the Medicaid program) are protected from these automatic spending reductions, Medicare reimbursement rates may be reduced by up to 2%. The BCA's automatic spending reductions were set to begin on January 2, 2013. However, the enactment of the ATRA postponed 23the implementation of the automatic spending reductions required by the BCA until March 1, 2013. On March 1, 2013, President Barack Obama signed an order implementing the automatic spending reductions required by the BCA. The Pathway Act was enacted December 26, 2013. Among other things, the Pathway Act extends the automatic across the board spending reductions required by the BCA through FFY 2023. We cannot predict whether these automatic spending reductions will be rescinded by future legislative action. If the BCA's automatic spending reductions become permanent, they could adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited or if we, or one or more of our surgical facilities, are excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.During the past several years, healthcare payors, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk relating to paying for care provided, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, these payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services.The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows. As enacted, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts will, beginning in 2014, expand Medicaid and provide incentives to employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Healthcare Reform Acts due to the Supreme Court's 2012 decision, their complexity, lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, uncertainty as to how many states will elect to implement the Medicaid expansion and when that expansion will occur, and possible defunding, repeal and/or amendment, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the Healthcare Reform Acts.Our surgical facilities do not satisfy all of the requirements for any of the safe harbors under the federal Anti-kickback Statute. If we fail to comply with the federal Anti-kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenues.The Anti-kickback Statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, furnishing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending or inducing the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federally funded healthcare program. The Anti-kickback Statute is very broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the Anti-kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the remuneration involved or the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The exclusion, if applied to our surgical facilities, could result in significant reductions in our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have also adopted laws, similar to the Anti-kickback Statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licenses. No state or federal regulatory actions have been taken against our surgical facilities under anti-kickback statutes during the time we have owned or operated the facilities. Management is not aware of any such actions prior to our acquisition or management of these surgical facilities.Regulations implement various “safe harbors” to the Anti-kickback Statute. Business arrangements that meet the requirements of the safe harbors are deemed to be in compliance with the Anti-kickback Statute. Business arrangements that do not meet the safe harbor requirements do not necessarily violate the Anti-kickback Statute, but may be subject to scrutiny by the federal government to determine compliance. However, the structure of the partnerships and limited liability companies operating our surgical facilities, as well as our business arrangement involving a physician network, do not satisfy all of the requirements of the safe harbor and, therefore, are not immune from government review or prosecution.If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenues.The federal physician self-referral law, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, prohibits a physician from making a Medicare or Medicaid reimbursed referral for a “designated health service” to an entity if the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has a “financial relationship” with the entity unless an exception applies. The list of “designated health services” under the Stark Law does not include ambulatory surgery services, but it does include services such as clinical laboratory services, and certain imaging services that may be provided by an ASC. Under the current Stark Law and related regulations, services provided at an ASC are not covered by the statute, even if those services include imaging, laboratory services or other Stark designated health services, provided that (i) the ASC does not bill 24for these services separately, or (ii) if the center is permitted to bill separately for these services, they are specifically exempted from Stark Law prohibitions. These are generally radiology and other imaging services integral to performance of surgical procedures that meet certain requirements and certain outpatient prescription drugs. Services provided at our facilities licensed as hospitals are covered by the Stark Law, but referrals for such services are exempt from the Stark Law under its “whole hospital exception,” which was significantly amended by the Healthcare Reform Acts. Certain services provided by our managed physician network are covered by the Stark Law, but referrals for those services are exempt from the Stark Law under its “in-office ancillary services exception,” among others.The Stark Law and similar state statutes are subject to different interpretations with respect to many important provisions. Violations of these self-referral laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including treble damages for amounts improperly claimed, civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited service billed, up to $100,000 per prohibited circumvention scheme and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Violations of the Stark Law will create liability under the Federal False Claims Act, as well. Exclusion of our ASCs or hospitals from these programs through future judicial or agency interpretation of existing laws or additional legislative restrictions on physician ownership or investments in healthcare entities could result in a significant loss of reimbursement revenues. We cannot provide assurances that CMS will not undertake other rulemaking to address additional revisions to the Stark Law regulations. If future rules modify the provisions of the Stark Law regulations that are applicable to our business, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected and could require us to modify our relationships with our physician and healthcare system partners.Healthcare reform has limited our ability to own and operate our hospitals.Six of our owned surgical facilities are licensed as hospitals. As discussed herein, the Stark Law currently includes an exception relating to physician ownership of a hospital, provided that the physician's ownership interest is in the whole hospital and the physician is authorized to perform services at the hospital known as the Whole Hospital Exception. Physician investment in our facilities licensed as hospitals currently meets this requirement. The Whole Hospital Exception was addressed in the Healthcare Reform Acts, which provide, among other things: (i) a prohibition on hospitals from having any physician ownership unless the hospital already had physician ownership as of March 23, 2010 and a Medicare provider agreement in effect on December 31, 2010; (ii) a limitation on the percentage of the total value of the physician ownership in the hospital to such percentage as of March 23, 2010; (iii) a requirement for written disclosures of physician ownership interests, along with an annual report to the government detailing such ownership; and (iv) severe restrictions on the ability of a hospital subject to the whole hospital exception to add operating rooms, procedure rooms and beds. While our hospitals were grandfathered at the dates of enactment of the Healthcare Reform Acts, they are subject to the above restrictions, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If future legislation prohibiting physician referrals to hospitals in which the physicians own an interest were enacted by the U.S. Congress, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.We may be subject to actions for false and other improper claims.Federal and state government agencies, as well as private payors, have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of the cost reporting and billing practices of healthcare organizations and their quality of care and financial relationships with referral sources. In addition, the OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse.The U.S. government is authorized to impose criminal, civil and administrative penalties on any person or entity that files a false claim for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs and other federal and state healthcare programs. Claims filed with private insurers can also lead to criminal and civil penalties, including, but not limited to, penalties relating to violations of federal mail and wire fraud statutes, as well as penalties under the anti-fraud provisions of HIPAA. While the criminal statutes are generally reserved for instances of fraudulent intent, the U.S. government is applying its criminal, civil and administrative penalty statutes in an ever-expanding range of circumstances. For example, the government has taken the position that a pattern of claiming reimbursement for unnecessary services violates these statutes if the claimant merely should have known the services were unnecessary, even if the government cannot demonstrate actual knowledge. The government has also taken the position that claiming payment for low-quality services is a violation of these statutes if the claimant should have known that the care was substandard. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 further expanded the scope of the False Claims Act to create liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government and the Healthcare Reform Acts created federal False Claims Act liability for the knowing failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days of the identification of the overpayment or the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later. This requirement has led to an increasing number of healthcare providers self-reporting potential violations of law to CMS, the OIG and other governmental agencies.We are also subject to various state insurance statutes and regulations that prohibit us from submitting inaccurate, incorrect or misleading claims. Although we believe that our operations comply with both federal and state laws, they may nevertheless be the subject of a whistleblower lawsuit or may otherwise be challenged or scrutinized by governmental authorities. A determination that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to increasingly stringent governmental regulation, and may be subjected to allegations that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in sanctions and even greater scrutiny that reduce our revenues and profitability.All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that our facilities meet various requirements, including those relating to our relationships with physicians and other referral sources, the adequacy and quality of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, 25billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, privacy, compliance with building codes and environmental protection, among other matters. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to the healthcare are complex, and, in public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that have in the past been conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under the Medicare fraud and abuse laws.The healthcare industry has seen a number of ongoing investigations related to patient referrals, physician recruiting practices, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home healthcare services, physician ownership of hospitals and other healthcare providers, and joint ventures involving hospitals and physicians. The Healthcare Reform Acts provide for additional enforcement tools, cooperation between agencies, and funding for enforcement. Federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. In addition, the OIG (which is responsible for investigating fraud and abuse activities in government programs) and the U.S. Department of Justice periodically establish targeted enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other areas that are highly susceptible to fraud and abuse. The OIG reported expected savings and recoveries for federal healthcare programs of more than $25.2 billion for FFY 2013 as a result of its enforcement activities.Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focal areas of the OIG and other governmental fraud and abuse programs. In January 2005, the OIG issued Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals that focuses on hospital compliance risk areas. Some of the risk areas highlighted by the OIG include correct outpatient procedure coding, revising admission and discharge policies to reflect current CMS rules, submitting appropriate claims for supplemental payments such as pass-through costs and outlier payments and a general discussion of the fraud and abuse risks related to financial relationships with referral sources. Each FFY, the OIG also publishes a General Work Plan that provides a brief description of the activities that the OIG plans to initiate or continue with respect to the programs and operations of HHS and details the areas that the OIG believes are prone to fraud and abuse. In addition, the claims review strategies used by RACs generally include a review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims. As a result, during the three year RAC demonstration program, a large majority of the total amounts recovered by RACs came from hospitals.The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.If a federal or state agency asserts a different position or enacts new laws or regulations regarding illegal remuneration under the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, experience a significant reduction in our revenues or be excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs.Any change in interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our surgical facilities, equipment, personnel, services, pricing, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with physician investors to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our surgical facilities. If any of our business arrangements with physician investors were deemed to violate the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark Law or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.We are subject to increasing scrutiny and risk of false claims allegations by governmental authorities and under the qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the False Claims Act that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in significant penalties and a reduction in our revenues and profitability.ASCs and hospitals are facing increased scrutiny under the qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the federal False Claims Act as well as by government authorities. Under the False Claims Act, private parties may bring actions on behalf of the U.S. government. These private parties, often referred to as relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government through trial or settlement. Both whistleblower lawsuits and direct enforcement activity by the government have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company, like us, will have to defend a false claims action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation resulting from a whistleblower case. Historically, there has been relatively little enforcement focus on the typical physician-ownership model used by many ASCs, and unlike hospitals, there have been relatively few qui tam lawsuits involving ASCs. Recently, however, a relator filed a qui tam lawsuit against an ASC company alleging that several aspects of the ASC company's ownership and operations constituted federal anti-kickback violations and, as a result, the ASC company's Medicare reimbursement claims were false claims. Although the federal government has declined to intervene in the case at this time, and the relator's allegations appear to have little merit, this case may indicate an increased effort on the part of qui tam relators to target ASCs.Although we believe that our operations materially comply with both federal and state laws, they may nevertheless be the subject of a whistleblower lawsuit or may otherwise be challenged or scrutinized by qui tam relators or governmental authorities. Providers found liable 26for False Claims Act violations are subject to damages of up to three times the actual damage sustained by the government plus mandatory civil monetary penalties between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. A determination that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on us.If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine or fee-splitting change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships, which may result in a significant loss of revenues and divert other resources.The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, to exercise control over or employ physicians who practice medicine or to engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians (i.e., sharing in a percentage of professional fees). The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We provide management services to a physician network. If our arrangements with this network were deemed to violate state corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting or similar laws, or if new laws are enacted rendering our arrangements illegal, we may be required to restructure these arrangements, which may result in a significant loss of revenues and divert other resources.If our operations in New York are found not to be in compliance with New York law, we may be unable to continue or expand our operations in New York.We own a 42% interest in a limited liability company which provides administrative services to an ASC located in New York. Laws in the State of New York require that corporations have natural persons as stockholders to be approved by the New York Department of Health as a licensed healthcare facility. Accordingly, we are not able to own interests in a limited partnership or limited liability company that owns an interest in a healthcare facility located in New York. Laws in the State of New York also prohibit the delegation of certain management functions by a licensed healthcare facility. The law does permit a licensed facility to lease premises and obtain various services from non-licensed entities. However, it is not clear what types of delegation constitute a violation. Although we believe that our operations and relationships in New York are in compliance with applicable laws, if New York regulatory authorities or a third-party asserts a contrary position, we may be unable to continue or expand our operations in New York.If regulations change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership of our physician partners or renegotiate some of our partnership and operating agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgical facilities.Upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, we may be obligated to purchase all of the ownership of the physician investors in most of the partnerships or limited liability companies that own and operate our surgical facilities. The purchase price that we would be required to pay for the ownership is typically based on either a multiple of the surgical facility's EBITDA, as defined in our partnership and operating agreements with these surgical facilities, or the fair market value of the ownership as determined by a third-party appraisal. The physician investors in some of our surgical facilities can require us to purchase their interests in exchange for cash or shares of our common stock if these regulatory changes occur. In addition, some of our partnership agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgical facilities require us to attempt to renegotiate the agreements upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations and provide for termination of the agreements if renegotiations are not successful.Regulatory changes that could create purchase or renegotiation obligations include changes that:•make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our surgical facilities by physician investors;•create a substantial likelihood that cash distributions to physician investors from the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we operate our surgical facilities would be illegal;•make illegal the ownership by the physician investors of interests in the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we own and operate our surgical facilities; or•require us to reduce the aggregate percentage of physician investor ownership in our hospitals.We do not control whether or when any of these regulatory events might occur. In the event we are required to purchase all of the physicians' ownership, our existing capital resources would not be sufficient for us to meet this obligation. These obligations and the possible termination of our partnership and management agreements would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The loss of certain physicians can have a disproportionate impact on certain of our facilities.Generally, the top referring physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians.27We make significant loans to, and are generally liable for debts and other obligations of, the partnerships and limited liability companies that own and operate some of our surgical facilities.We own and operate our surgical facilities through 14 limited partnerships and 36 limited liability companies. Local physicians, physician groups and healthcare systems also own an interest in all but one of these partnerships and limited liability companies. In the partnerships in which we are the general partner, we are liable for 100% of the debts and other obligations of the partnership, even if we do not own all of the partnership interests. For some of our surgical facilities, indebtedness at the partnership level is funded through intercompany loans that we provide. At December 31, 2013, our intercompany loans totaled $20.4 million. Through these loans we have a security interest in the partnership's or limited liability company's assets. However, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if our surgical facilities are unable to repay these intercompany loans.Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes allow us to borrow funds that we can lend to the partnerships and limited liability companies in which we own an interest. Although most of our intercompany loans are secured by the assets of the partnership or limited liability company, the physicians and physician groups that own an interest in these partnerships and limited liability companies generally do not guarantee a pro rata amount of this debt or the other obligations of these partnerships and limited liability companies.From time to time, we may guarantee our pro-rata share of the third-party debts and other obligations of many of the non-consolidated partnerships and limited liability companies in which we own an interest. In most instances of these guarantees, the physicians and/or physician groups have also guaranteed their pro-rata share of the indebtedness to secure the financing. At December 31, 2013, we did not guarantee any debt of our non-consolidated surgical facilities. If we become subject to large malpractice or other legal claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance.In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Currently, we maintain professional and general liability insurance that provides coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per occurrence with a retention of $50,000 per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per surgical facility. In addition, physicians who provide professional services in our surgical facilities are required to maintain separate malpractice coverage with similar minimum coverage limits. We also maintain business interruption insurance and property damage insurance, as well as an additional umbrella liability insurance policy in the aggregate amount of $25.0 million. However, this insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We face intense competition for physicians, nurses, strategic relationships, acquisitions and managed care contracts, which may result in a decline in our revenues, profitability and market share.The healthcare business is highly competitive. We compete with other healthcare providers, primarily hospitals and other surgical facilities, in attracting physicians to utilize our surgical facilities, nurses and medical staff to support our surgical facilities, and in contracting with managed care payors in each of our markets. There are unaffiliated hospitals in each market in which we operate. These hospitals have established relationships with physicians and payors. In addition, other companies either currently are in the same or similar business of developing, acquiring and operating surgical facilities or may decide to enter our business. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do, including financial, marketing, staff and capital resources. We also may compete with some of these companies for entry into strategic relationships with healthcare systems and healthcare professionals. In addition, many physician groups develop surgical facilities without a corporate partner, utilizing consultants who perform services for a fee and do not take an equity interest in the ongoing operations of the facility. In recent years, more physicians are choosing to perform procedures, including pain management and gastrointestinal procedures, in an office-based setting rather than in a surgical facility. If we are unable to compete effectively with any of these entities or groups, we may be unable to implement our business strategies successfully and our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our surgical facilities are sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions of the states where they are located. In addition, three of our surgical facilities account for a significant portion of our patient service revenues.Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in the states of Texas, Florida and Missouri. As of December 31, 2013, we owned and operated three consolidated surgical facilities in Texas, seven consolidated surgical facilities in Florida and four consolidated surgical facilities in Missouri. The Texas facilities represented 16.1%, 13.8% and 9.6% of our patient service revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Florida facilities represented 5.7 %, 7.1% and 9.1% of our patient service revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Missouri facilities represented 8.6%, 8.9% and 9.6% of our patient service revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, our surgical hospital located in Idaho Falls, Idaho represented 25.0%, 26.5% and 24.8% of our patient service revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our surgical hospital located in Durango, Colorado represented 5.2%, 5.4% and 5.0% of our patient service revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our surgical hospital located in Lubbock, Texas, which we acquired in June 2012, represented 10.9% and 5.8% of our patient service revenues during the years 28ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, since the acquisition date. If these facilities are adversely affected by regulatory, economic and other conditions, or if these facilities do not perform effectively, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We depend on our senior management, and we may be adversely affected if we lose any member of our senior management.We are highly dependent on our senior management, including Richard E. Francis, Jr., our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and Clifford G. Adlerz, our president and chief operating officer. Our employment agreements with Messrs. Francis and Adlerz have three-year terms which automatically extend until terminated. We may terminate each employment agreement for cause. In addition, either party may terminate the employment agreement at any time by giving prior written notice to the other party. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers. Because our senior management has contributed greatly to our growth since inception, the loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to integrate and operate our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted.Our operations significantly depend on effective information systems. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. We plan to continue the implementation of new IT systems at many of our facilities during 2014. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent transitions from, and the integration of, various information systems. If we experience difficulties with the transition from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses.Risks Related to Our Corporate StructureWe may have a special legal responsibility to the holders of ownership interests in the entities through which we own our surgical facilities, which may conflict with the interests of our noteholders and prevent us from acting solely in our own best interests or the interests of our noteholders.We generally hold our ownership interests in surgical facilities through limited partnerships or limited liability companies in which we maintain ownership along with physicians or physician practice groups. As general partner or manager of these entities, we may have a special responsibility, known as a fiduciary duty, to manage these entities in the best interests of the other interest holders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our responsibility to the other interest holders and our responsibility to enhance the value of our company. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our surgical facilities in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, we are obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the interests of the noteholders. Disputes may also arise between us and our physician investors with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the applicable limited partnership agreement or operating agreement. We seek to avoid these disputes but have not implemented any measures to resolve these conflicts if they arise. If we are unable to resolve a dispute on terms favorable or satisfactory to us, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.We are a holding company with no operations of our own.We are a holding company, and our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries that operate the surgical facilities. The effect of this structure is that we depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and the distribution or payment to us of a portion of these earnings to meet our obligations, including those under our Credit Facility and outstanding notes and any of our other debt obligations. The distributions of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by these entities to us, all of which are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings, are subject to various business considerations. In addition, distributions by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory restrictions, including state laws requiring that such subsidiaries be solvent, or contractual restrictions. Some of our subsidiaries may become subject to agreements that restrict the sale of assets and significantly restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends or the making of distributions, loans or other payments to stockholders, partners or members. We do not have exclusive control over the distribution of cash from our operating entities and may be unable to cause all or a portion of the cash of these entities to be distributed.All of the surgical facilities in which we have ownership are held through partnerships or limited liability companies. We typically own, directly or indirectly, the general partnership or majority member interests in these entities. The partnership and operating agreements for these entities provide for distribution of available cash, in some cases on a quarterly basis subject in certain cases to requirements that we obtain approval of other equity holders. Many of these agreements also impose limits on the ability of these entities to make loans or transfer assets to us. If we are unable to cause sufficient cash to be distributed from one or more of these entities, our relationships with the physicians who also own an interest in these entities may be damaged and we could be adversely affected, as could our ability to make debt service payments. We may not be able to resolve favorably any dispute regarding cash distribution or other matters with a healthcare system with which we share control of the distributions made by these entities. Further, the failure to resolve a dispute with these healthcare systems could cause an entity in which we own an interest to be dissolved.29We are controlled by principal stockholders whose interests may differ from your interests.Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our principal stockholders could be in conflict with the interests of the holders of our notes. In addition, these stockholders may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in our company, even though those transactions may involve risks to other interest holders.A majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of Holdings is held by Crestview and certain affiliated investors (the “Crestview Funds”). As a result of their stock ownership, the Crestview Funds control us and have the power to elect a majority of our directors, appoint new management and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of common stock, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by the Crestview Funds have the ability to control decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the declaration of dividends.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.