Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors described below represent the most significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Except as otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such factor occurring. RISK RELATING TO OUR BANKRUPTCY For the duration of the Chapter 11 cases, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, which include the following: · Our ability to prosecute, confirm and consummate a Plan, which has not yet been proposed as of the date of this Annual Report; · Our ability to consummate strategic sales of our assets or certain business divisions or restructure or consolidate our operations in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court; · The actions and decisions of our creditors, shareholders and other third parties who have interests in the Chapter 11 cases that may be inconsistent with our plans; · Our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 cases prosecuted from time to time; · Our ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors and service providers; · Our ability to obtain and maintain financing necessary to carry out our operations and continue to use the cash collateral of our secured lenders under our Amended and Restated DIP Credit Agreement; · Our ability to maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations; · Risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to confirm a proposed Plan, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert our Chapter 11 cases to Chapter 7 proceedings; and · Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Chapter 11 cases could adversely affect our revenues and the relationship with our customers, as well as with suppliers and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 cases are unexpectedly protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. As a result of the Chapter 11 cases, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets or certain businesses and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in our financial statements. Further, a Plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a Plan. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 cases, the ultimate impact that events occurring during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. Additionally, the result of any confirmed Plan may result in cancellation of our common stock, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and/or the failure of the Company to continue as a public company, which could cause any investment in the Company to become worthless. In light of the foregoing, trading in our securities during the Chapter 11 cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Holders of our securities may have their securities cancelled and in return receive no payment or other consideration, or a payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. 16 Table of Contents Our stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. Effective March 18, 2009, the NYSE suspended trading of our common stock and delisted the stock on April 16, 2009. Our stock is now traded over the counter and is quoted on the Pink Sheets. We may not be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange and our stock may not continue to be traded on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock over the counter negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In connection with the delisting of our stock, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence in our Company by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our common stock. A long period of operations under Chapter 11 protection may harm our business. A long period of operations under Chapter 11 protection could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as our Chapter 11 cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 protection may also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the Chapter 11 cases. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 cases may also require us to seek additional financing. If we require additional financing during the Chapter 11 cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized, and as a result, any securities in our Company could become devalued or become worthless. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of a Chapter 11 reorganization plan or consummate strategic assets or business divestitures. To successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable entity, or even to confirm a Plan, we must meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to a Plan, soliciting and obtaining the requisite acceptances of the Plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation, which have not occurred to date. We may not receive the requisite acceptances of constituencies in the Chapter 11 cases to confirm any future Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of a Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm such a Plan. If any future Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if anything, holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. In the event a Plan is not ultimately confirmed, with Bankruptcy Court approval, it is likely that we will seek to consummate strategic sales of assets in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially different treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable, reorganized entity. We may not be able to consummate strategic sales of our assets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, and any such sales outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full, with interest, before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a Plan. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a Plan. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. A Plan could result in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and could result in the cancellation of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a Plan can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of our equity security holders. Therefore, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative and may become worthless (or be canceled) in the future without any required approval or consent of such shareholders. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise the additional capital needed to fund our businesses, which would prevent us from continuing operations, even if substantially all of our debts are discharged through the Chapter 11 cases. Even if our debts are reduced or discharged through the Chapter 11 cases, we may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business after the completion of the Chapter 11 cases. In such a case, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we need to raise additional funds in the future by issuing equity securities and assuming existing stockholders continue to hold shares of common stock after the confirmation of a Plan, dilution to existing stockholders may result, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds by issuing debt due to restrictive covenants contained in our senior debt or other exit financing confirmed as part of a Plan, of which there can be no assurance, which may restrict our ability to expend or raise capital in the future. The agreements governing our debt contain restrictions that could significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Our Amended and Restated DIP Credit Agreement, as was consistent with our DIP Credit Facility, contains a number of covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional debt, aggregate capital expenditures, additional operating leases, issuance of capital stock, issuance of guarantees, liens, investments, disposition of assets, dividends, certain payments, mergers, change of business, transactions with affiliates, prepayments of debt, repurchases of stock and redemptions of certain other indebtedness and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. Our ability to comply with the covenants, agreements and restrictions contained in our Amended and Restated DIP Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with such covenants, agreements, or restrictions in the future. Additionally, breach of any of the covenants imposed on us by the terms of the Amended and Restated DIP Credit Agreement could result in a default under the agreement. In the event of a default, the lenders could terminate their commitments to us and could accelerate the repayment of all of our indebtedness under the agreement. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, and our lenders under the Amended and Restated DIP Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral securing the agreement. Any acceleration in the repayment of our indebtedness or related foreclosure could adversely affect our business. RISK RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONS The worldwide and general economic factors and difficult conditions in the global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, as well as the industries of many of our customers and suppliers, which are cyclical in nature. Some of the markets in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electronics and building and construction industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. External factors, including general economic conditions, international events and circumstances, competitor actions and governmental regulation are beyond our control and can cause fluctuations in demand and volatility in the price of raw materials and other costs that can intensify the impact of economic cycles on our operations. We produce a broad range of products that are used as additives and components in other products in a wide variety of end-use applications. As a result, our products may be negatively impacted by supply and demand instability in other industries and the effects of that instability on supply chain participants. Economic and political conditions in countries in which we operate may also adversely impact our operations. These same risks may also impact the financial markets and may negatively affect our access to capital. While these external factors may adversely affect our businesses, we believe that the breadth of our product offering lessens our dependence on any one market and that our worldwide presence further reduces our exposure to economic conditions or political instability in any one country or region. 18 Table of Contents Declines in late 2008 and in 2009 in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, demonstrated the sensitivity of our businesses to changes in economic conditions, caused us to commence the Chapter 11 proceedings and have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. Accordingly, if the global financial crisis and current economic downturn continue or worsen, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be further adversely affected. Significant competition may force us to reduce prices, which may adversely impact our results of operations. We face significant competition in many of the industries in which we operate due to the trend toward global expansion and consolidation by competitors. Some of our existing competitors are larger than we are and may have more resources and better access to capital markets to facilitate continued expansion or new product development. Some of our competitors also have greater product range or better distribution capability than we do for specific products or geographic regions. Price competition also exists in some of the markets in which we participate where customers are sensitive to changes in price. Additionally, other factors such as industry overcapacity and lower cost structures have the effect of putting downward pressure on prices. We expect that we will continue to face new competitive challenges as well as additional risks inherent in international operations in developing regions. We also expect to face increased competition from the further use and introduction of generic and alternative products by our competitors. This increased competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, even if we were to raise prices, the reactions of our competitors and customers to such price increases could cause us to reevaluate and possibly reverse such price increases or risk a loss in sales volumes. The cyclicality of the chemicals industry may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results or cash flows. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the supply and demand balance of the chemicals industry. The chemicals industry has experienced alternating periods of inadequate capacity and tight supply, allowing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods when substantial capacity is added, resulting in oversupply, over-capacity and corresponding declining utilization rates, causing declining prices and profit margins. The cyclicality of the industries in which we operate may result in volatile operating results and cash flow over our business cycle. Future growth in product demand may not be sufficient to utilize current or future capacity. Excess industry capacity may continue to depress our volumes and margins on some products. Due to excess industry capacity, rising energy costs and rising raw materials costs, our operating results may be volatile. Any disruption in the availability or price of the raw materials or energy utilized for our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We purchase large amounts of raw materials and energy for our businesses. The costs of these materials and energy, in the aggregate, represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices and availability of the raw materials we use vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Over the past few years, and particularly in 2008, we have experienced significant cost increases in purchases of petrochemicals, tin, soybean oil, other raw materials and our primary energy source, natural gas. While we have and will continue to attempt to match raw material or energy price increases with corresponding product price increases, we may not be able to immediately raise product prices, if at all. Ultimately, our ability to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials or energy to customers is greatly dependent upon market conditions and raising prices charged to our customers could result in a loss of sales volume. There have been in the past, and will likely be in the future, periods of time during which we are unable to pass raw material and energy price increases on to our customers, in whole or in part. Reactions by our customers and competitors to our price increases could cause us to reevaluate and possibly reverse such price increases, which may increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents The results of our Crop Protection Engineered Products segment is dependent on weather, disease, and pest conditions and can be affected by local and regional economic circumstances. The results of our Consumer Performance Products business are also dependent on weather conditions. Adverse weather or economic conditions could materially affect our results of operations. Sales volumes for our Crop Protection Engineered Products business, as with all agricultural products, are subject to the sector’s dependency on weather, disease, and pest infestation conditions. Adverse weather conditions in a particular region could materially adversely affect our Crop Protection Engineered Products business. Demand for crop protection products is also influenced by the agricultural policies of governments and regulatory authorities particularly in developing countries in regions where we do business, such as in Asia and Latin America. Changes in governmental policies or product registration requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to market and sell our products. Our crop protection products are typically sold pursuant to contracts with extended payment terms in Latin America and Europe. Customary extended payment periods, which are tied to particular crop growing cycles, make our Crop Protection Engineered Products business susceptible to losses from receivables during economic downturns and may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results or our cash flows. Our pool and spa products in the Consumer Performance Products business are primarily used in swimming pools and spas. Demand for these products is influenced by a variety of factors including seasonal weather patterns. An adverse change in weather patterns during pool season could adversely affect the demand for and profitability of our pool and spa products. This occurred in the United States in the 2008 and 2009 pool seasons when weather was unseasonably cold and wet. Impairment charges may affect our results of operations in the future. Management regularly tests for goodwill impairment on an annual basis each July 31, and more frequently if events occur or circumstances arise that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other possible long-lived asset impairments if events occur or circumstances arise that would indicate that the carrying value amount of such long-lived assets may not be recoverable. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future period in which we record a charge. Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate and other currency risks. A significant movement in exchange rates could adversely impact our results of operations. Significant portions of our businesses are conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This means that foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. Effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results cannot be predicted because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures, and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We will face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Restrictions with our debt agreements and constraints on our liquidity today restrict our ability to hedge foreign exchange exposures. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature could adversely affect our earnings or cash flows. We have unfunded and underfunded pension plans and post-retirement health care plans, which, if changes to the funded status occur, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have unfunded obligations under our domestic tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan totaling approximately $249 million on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2009. Further declines in the value of the plan investments or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required pension funding. We also sponsor foreign and non-qualified pension plans under which there are substantial unfunded liabilities totaling approximately $191 million on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2009. Foreign regulatory authorities may seek to have the Debtors take responsibility for some portion of these obligations. In addition, we sponsor post-retirement health care plans under which there are substantial unfunded liabilities totaling approximately $150 million on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2009. Mandatory funding contributions with respect to our tax-qualified pension plans and potential unfunded benefit liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Production facilities are subject to operating risks that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities. Such production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, remediation complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous gases, storage tank leaks, and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental damage, fines, civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. The occurrence of these events may disrupt production and could have an adverse effect on the production and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. An inability to remain technologically innovative and to offer improved products and services in a cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operating results. Our operating results are influenced in part by our ability to introduce new products and services that offer distinct value to our customers. For example, our Crop Protection Engineered Products business seeks to provide tailored products for our customers’ often unique problems, which requires an ongoing level of innovation. In many of the markets where we sell our products, the products are subject to a traditional product life cycle. We devote significant human and financial resources to develop new technologically advanced products and services and we may not be successful in our research and development efforts. We are dependent upon a trained, dedicated sales force, the loss of which could materially affect our operations. Many of our products are sold and supported through dedicated staff and specifically trained personnel. The loss of this sales force due to market or other conditions could affect our ability to sell and support our products effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS Current and future litigation, governmental investigations and administrative claims, including antitrust-related governmental investigations and lawsuits, could harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are involved in several significant lawsuits and claims relating to environmental and chemical exposure matters. In addition, we are routinely subject to other civil claims, litigation and arbitration, and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of our present businesses, as well as with respect to our divested businesses. Some of these claims and lawsuits relate to product liability claims, including claims related to current and former products and asbestos related claims concerning the premises and historic products of our corporate affiliates and predecessors. We also could become subject to additional claims in the future. An adverse outcome of one or more of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are currently involved in a number of governmental investigations and administrative claims, including antitrust-related governmental investigations and civil lawsuits. Further, we have incurred and could incur additional expenses in the future in connection with antitrust-related matters, including expenses related to our cooperation with governmental authorities and defense related civil lawsuits. 21 Table of Contents Environmental, health and safety regulatory matters could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and sanctions for violations such as clean-up costs, costs of waste disposal, and payments for property damage and personal injury. Although it is our policy to comply with such laws and regulations, it is possible that we have not been or may not be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements, and enforcement of these requirements, may become more stringent in the future. The ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements could be material. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities such as government fines or orders, third-party lawsuits, remediations, and settlements or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We may also be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future regulatory or other developments could also restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, packaging, manufacturing processes and technology, which could have a significant adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings, settlements, and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities, including clean-up costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites, natural resource damages, property damage, personal injury, and regulatory compliance or noncompliance. The resolution of these environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are an international company and are exposed to risks in the countries in which we have significant operations or interests. Changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, export controls or international tax treaties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are dependent, in large part, on the economies of the countries in which we manufacture and market our products. Of our 2009 net sales, 49% were to customers in the U.S. and Canada, 31% to Europe and Africa, 15% to Asia/Pacific and 5% to Latin America. Our net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009 was located 64% in the U.S. and Canada, 29% in Europe and Africa, 5% in Asia/Pacific and 2% in Latin America. The economies of countries in these areas are in different stages of socioeconomic development. Consequently, we are exposed to risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation, governmental spending, political and social instability, natural disasters and other political, economic or social developments that may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may also face difficulties managing and administering an internationally dispersed business. In particular, the management of our personnel across several countries can present logistical and managerial challenges. Additionally, international operations present challenges related to operating under different business cultures and languages. We may have to comply with unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements which could negatively impact our operations and ability to manage our global financial resources. Export controls or other regulatory restrictions could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property overseas due to uncertainty of laws and enforcement in a number of countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights. Changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties could significantly reduce the financial performance of our foreign operations or the magnitude of their contributions to our overall financial performance. We are in the process of reviewing various customer incentive, commission and promotional payment practices of the Crop Protection Engineered Products segment in its Europe, Middle East and Africa region, with particular emphasis on certain Central Asian countries that are considered part of that region. The review is being conducted under the oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and with the assistance of outside counsel and forensic accounting consultants. While the review is not yet complete, substantial progress has been made, but it has not yet been possible to determine whether all such practices or payments were consistent with applicable U.S. or international laws and regulations that apply to these operations. We cannot currently predict the timing or the outcome of this review, nor can we it reasonably estimate the likelihood, nature or amount of monetary or other sanctions, if any, that might be imposed should the review identify that certain payments were inconsistent with applicable laws or regulations. We believe that there is no matter connected with this review that would lead to a material change to the financial statements included in this report on Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents The inability to register our products in member states of the EU under the REACh legislation may lead to some restrictions or cancellations of registrations, which could impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain products. In December 2006, the EU signed the REACh legislation. This legislation requires chemical manufacturers and importers in the EU to demonstrate the safety of the chemical substances contained in products. The effective date of the legislation was June 1, 2007 and it required all covered substances to be pre-registered by November 30, 2008. Since December 1, 2008, no product containing covered substances can be manufactured in or imported into the EU unless the substances therein have been pre-registered. The full registration of REACh will be phased in over the next ten years. The registration deadlines are as follows: 2010 for chemical substances manufactured or imported in excess of 1,000 metric tons per year and for substances deemed to be particularly harmful to humans or the environment, 2013 for substances manufactured or imported in the EU between 100 and 1,000 metric tons per year and 2018 for substances manufactured or imported in the EU in quantities greater than 1 metric ton per year. The registration process will require expenditures and resource commitments to compile and file comprehensive chemical dossiers on the use and attributes of each chemical substance and to perform chemical safety assessments. In addition, each registration phase carries with it a registration fee, which ranges from €31,500 (approximately $45,000) per substance for high-risk, high tonnage band substances to €1,600 (approximately $2,000) for substances registered in the lowest tonnage band and risk. We pre-registered approximately 1,100 substances and submitted approximately 2,100 pre-registration dossiers covering multiple affiliated legal entities. Our REACh costs in 2009 were approximately $1 million. We anticipate REACh-related costs of approximately $11 million in 2010 (including the first wave of registration fees), $3 million in 2011 and $6 million in 2012. The implementation of REACh registration processes may affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain products in the future. Our business depends upon many proprietary technologies, including patents and licenses. Our competitive position could be adversely affected if we fail to protect our patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we become subject to claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others. We have approximately 3,500 United States and foreign granted patents and pending patent applications and approximately 4,700 United States and foreign registered and pending trademarks. Patents, trademarks, trade secrets in the nature of know-how, formulations, and manufacturing techniques assist us in maintaining the competitive position of certain of our products. Our intellectual property is of particular importance to a number of specialty chemicals we manufacture and sell. We are licensed to use certain patents and technology owned by other companies, including some foreign companies, to manufacture products complementary to our own products, for which we pay royalties in amounts not considered material, in the aggregate, to our consolidated results. Our trademarks or the patents we own or license may be challenged, and due to such challenges we could lose our exclusive rights to our proprietary technologies, which would adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations. We also rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to restrict the use and disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, those confidentiality agreements may be breached. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how, and others could obtain knowledge of such trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents, trademarks or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, or proprietary know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our patents may not provide full protection against competing manufacturers outside of the United States, the EU countries, and certain other developed countries. Weaker protection may adversely impact our sales and results of operations. In some of the countries in which we operate, such as China, the laws protecting patent holders are significantly weaker than in the United States, the EU and certain other developed countries. Weaker protection may help competing manufacturers be or become more competitive in markets where, but for the weaker protection, they might not otherwise be able to introduce competing products for a number of years. We therefore tend, in these regions, to rely more heavily upon trade secret and know-how protection, as applicable, than we do patents. In addition, for our crop protection products being sold in China, we rely on regulatory protection of intellectual property provided by regulatory agencies that may not provide us with complete protection against competitors. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 