Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: Our success depends in part on the popularity of our brands and the reputation and popularity of our founder, Martha Stewart, and any adverse reactions to publicity relating to Ms. Stewart, or the loss of her services, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and our ability to maintain or generate a consumer base. While we believe there has been significant consumer acceptance for our products as stand-alone brands, the image, reputation, popularity and talent of Martha Stewart remain important factors. Ms. Stewart’s efforts, 12 Table of Contents personality and leadership have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. While we have managed our business without her daily participation, for example, during the period of her incarceration resulting from a personal legal matter, the repeated diminution or loss of her services due to disability, death or some other cause, or any repeated or sustained shifts in public or industry perceptions of her, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our business may be adversely affected by Ms. Stewart’s 2006 settlement with the SEC, which bars her until August 2011 from serving at the Company as a director, or as an officer with financial responsibilities. Our Merchandising business currently relies heavily on revenue from a single source. In 2007, we received approximately 76% of our Merchandising segment revenues and 21% of our total revenues from our licensing agreement with Kmart. For the twelve months ended January 31, 2008, we received guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $65.0 million from Kmart. For the contract years ending January 31, 2009 and January 31, 2010 (the final two years of the contract), the minimum guarantees are substantially lower than in recent years (we anticipate they will be $20.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively). As a result of the substantial decline in minimum guarantees, we expect that the revenue we receive from Kmart will decline significantly. If in future periods we are unable to earn, from sources other than Kmart, revenue in excess of the reduction of guarantees from our Kmart contract, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. We are expanding our merchandising and licensing programs into new areas and products, the failure of any of which could diminish the perceived value of our brand, impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new or expand existing retail merchandising programs. We have entered into several new merchandising and licensing agreements in the past few years. Some of these agreements are exclusive and may have a duration of many years. While we require that our licensees maintain the quality of our brands through specific contractual provisions, we cannot be certain that our licensees, or their manufacturers and distributors, will honor their contractual obligations or that they will not take other actions that will diminish the value of our brands. There is also a risk that the extension of our brand into new business areas will meet with disapproval from consumers. We have limited experience in merchandising in some of these business areas. We cannot guarantee that these programs will be fully implemented, or if implemented, that they will be successful. If the licensing or merchandising programs do not succeed, we may be prohibited from seeking different channels for our products due to the exclusive nature and multi-year terms of these agreements. Disputes with new or existing licensees may arise which could hinder our ability to grow or expand our product lines. Such disputes also could prevent or delay our ability to collect licensing revenue we expect in connection with such products. If such developments occur or our merchandising programs are otherwise not successful, our brand recognition, business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our Merchandising business and licensing programs may suffer from downturns in the health and stability of the general economy or housing market. Reduction in the availability of credit, increased heating and gas expenses, slowing housing turnover or a downturn in the housing market, all of which have occurred in the past two years, and each of which could become more pronounced in the future, could limit consumers’ discretionary spending or affect their confidence. These and other adverse consumer trends may lead to reduced spending on general merchandise, homes and home improvement projects, categories in which we license our brands. A downturn in consumer spending would adversely impact consumer sales generally, resulting in weaker revenues from our licensed products. Such a trend would adversely impact, and could materially adversely impact, our business, financial condition and prospects. 13 Table of Contents Our business is largely dependent on advertising revenues in our publications, online operations and broadcasts and failure to attract or retain these advertisers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on advertising revenue in our Publishing, Broadcasting and Internet businesses. We cannot control how much or where companies choose to advertise. If advertisers decide to spend less money, or if they advertise elsewhere in lieu of our publications, broadcasts or website, our revenues and business would be materially adversely affected. If The Martha Stewart Show fails to maintain a sufficient audience, if adverse trends develop in the television production business generally, or if Martha Stewart were to cease to be able to devote substantial time to our television business, that business would be adversely affected. Our television production business is subject to a number of uncertainties. Our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by: Failure of our television programming to maintain a sufficient audience Television production is a speculative business because revenues derived from television depend primarily upon the continued acceptance of that programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. Public acceptance of particular programming depends upon, among other things, the quality of that programming, the strength of stations on which that programming is broadcast, promotion of that programming, the quality and acceptance of competing television programming and other sources of entertainment and information. The Martha Stewart Show television program has experienced a decline in ratings that reflects both the general decline in daytime broadcast television viewers discussed in the paragraph below, as well as the decision by some major market stations to shift the airing of the show. These developments have negatively impacted our television advertising revenues. If ratings for the show were to further decline, it would adversely affect the advertising revenues we derive from television and may result in the television program being broadcast on fewer stations. Ratings decline further than we anticipate could also make it economically inefficient to continue production of the program in the daily one-hour format or otherwise. If production of the television program were to cease, it would result in the loss of a significant marketing platform for us and our products as well as a writedown of our capitalized programming costs. The amount of any writedown would vary depending on a number of factors, including when production ceased and the extent to which we continued to generate revenues from the use of our existing program library. Adverse trends in the television business generally Television revenues may also be affected by a number of other factors, most of which are not within our control. These factors include a general decline in daytime broadcast television viewers, pricing pressure in the television advertising industry, strength of the stations on which our programming is broadcast, general economic conditions, increases in production costs, availability of other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and other factors. Any or all of these factors may quickly change, and these changes cannot be predicted with certainty. While we currently benefit from our ability to sell advertising on our television programs, if adverse changes occur, we can make no assurance that we will continue to be able to sell this advertising or that our advertising rates can be maintained. Accordingly, if any of these adverse changes were to occur, the revenues we generate from television programming could decline. We have placed emphasis on building an advertising revenue based website, dependent on high levels of consumer traffic and resulting page views. Failure to fulfill these undertakings would adversely affect our brand and business prospects. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon the development of our Internet business. We have had failures with direct commerce in the past, and only limited experience in building an advertising revenue- 14 Table of Contents based website. In response to initial results from the relaunch of the marthastewart.com site in the second quarter of 2007, which were below expectations, we made changes to the site. We cannot make assurances that those changes will enable us to sustain growth for our site in the long term. In order for our Internet business to succeed, we must, among other things: • significantly increase our online traffic and advertising revenue; • attract and retain a base of frequent visitors to our website; • expand the content, products and tools we offer over our website; • respond to competitive developments while maintaining a distinct brand identity; • attract and retain talent for critical positions; • maintain and form relationships with strategic partners to attract more consumers; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies; and • bring new product features to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure that we will be successful in achieving these and other necessary objectives or that our Internet business will be profitable. If we are not successful in achieving these objectives, our business, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to predict, respond to and influence trends in what the public finds appealing, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to provide creative, useful and attractive ideas, information, concepts, programming and products, which strongly appeal to a large number of homemakers and other consumers. In order to accomplish this, we must be able to respond quickly and effectively to changes in consumer tastes for ideas, information, concepts and products. The strength of our brands and our business units depends in part on our ability to influence these tastes through broadcasting, publishing, merchandising and the Internet. We cannot be sure that our new ideas and content will have the appeal and garner the acceptance that they have in the past, or that we will be able to respond quickly to changes in the tastes of homemakers and other consumers. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing ideas and content will continue to appeal to the public. New product launches may reduce our earnings or generate losses. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue offering new products and services that successfully gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of our current and future customers. Our efforts to introduce new or integrate acquired products may not be successful or profitable. The process of internally researching and developing, launching, gaining acceptance and establishing profitability for a new product or service, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product, is both risky and costly. New products generally incur initial operating losses. Costs related to the development of new products and services are generally expensed as incurred and, accordingly, our profitability from year to year may be adversely affected by the number and timing of new product launches. For example, we had a cumulative loss of $15.4 million in connection with Blueprint, which we have ceased to publish as a stand-alone title. Other businesses and brands that we may develop also may prove not to be successful. Acquiring or developing additional brands or businesses, and integrating acquired assets, poses inherent financial and other risks and challenges. We expect to be able to launch product lines and media properties that stand alone in the marketplace. In February 2008, we agreed to acquire certain assets of Chef Emeril Lagasse, subject to certain closing conditions. We cannot assure that we will consummate this acquisition or that, if consummated, we will be able to adequately manage the acquired businesses. Failure to successfully consummate that acquisition, 15 Table of Contents integrate those assets or exploit the brand we are acquiring could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to acquire other brands. The process of consolidating and integrating acquired operations and assets takes a significant period of time, places a significant strain on resources and could prove to be more expensive and time consuming than we predicted. We may increase expenditures to accelerate the integration process with the goal of achieving longer-term cost savings and improved profitability. We also may be required to manage multiple relationships with third parties as we expand our product offerings and brand portfolio. These developments may increase expenses as we hire additional personnel to manage our growth. These investments require significant time commitments from our senior management and place a strain on their ability to manage our existing business. Part of our strategic plan is to acquire other businesses. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation, and integration. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the field of interactive media. Even if successfully negotiated, closed, and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. We do not have audited GAAP-basis financial information related to the agreement to acquire assets from Emeril Lagasse. Acquisitions could have a material impact on the financial information we provide. The business related to the assets of Emeril Lagasse that we have agreed to acquire, subject to certain closing conditions, did not have GAAP-basis audited financial statements. A subsequent audit of these assets and the business related to them may reveal significant issues related to valuation or otherwise. If we consummate the transaction to acquire the assets, then the purchase price for the assets of Emeril Lagasse would likely exceed the current fair value of the net assets. As a result, material goodwill and other intangible assets would be recorded, which could result in significant amortization charges in the future. We face significant competition for advertising and circulation. We face significant competition from a number of print and website publishers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enhance their ability to compete in the markets we serve. Competition for advertising revenue in publications is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and scope of readership, reader response to the promotions for advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact readership audience, circulation revenues and, ultimately, advertising revenues. Because our industry is relatively easy to enter, we anticipate that additional competitors, some of whom have greater resources than we do, may enter these markets and intensify competition. Our principal vendors are consolidating and this may adversely affect our business and operations. We rely on our principal vendors and their ability or willingness to sell goods and services to us at favorable prices and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability and willingness of these vendors to sell these goods and services to us on such terms. Our principal vendors include paper suppliers, printers, subscription fulfillment houses and national newsstand wholesalers, distributors and retailers. Each of these industries in recent years has experienced consolidation among its principal participants. Further consolidation may result in all or any of the following, which could adversely affect our results of operations: • decreased competition, which may lead to increased prices; • interruptions and delays in services provided by such vendors; and • greater dependence on certain vendors. 16 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in paper and postage costs. Our principal raw material is paper. Paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. We generally purchase paper from major paper suppliers who adjust the price periodically. We have not entered, and do not currently plan to enter into long-term forward price or option contracts for paper. Accordingly, significant increases in paper prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. Postage for magazine distribution is also one of our significant expenses. We primarily use the U.S. Postal Service to distribute magazine subscriptions. We may not be able to recover, in whole or in part, paper or postage cost increases. In recent years, postal rates have increased including a rise in 2007 and an additional increase that is expected to occur in 2008. Accordingly, significant increases in postage prices could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may face increased costs for distribution of our magazines to newsstands and bookstores. Distribution of magazines to newsstands and bookstores is conducted primarily through four companies, known as wholesalers. Recently, one of our wholesalers has advised us that they intend to increase the price of their services by approximately 8%. We expect to commence discussions with this wholesaler shortly regarding this matter and cannot provide assurance as to the outcome. It is possible that other wholesalers likewise may seek to increase the price of their services. An increase in the price of our wholesalers’ services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a continued weakening of newsstand sales. The magazine industry has seen a weakening of newsstand sales during the past few years. A continuation of this decline could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by reducing our circulation revenue and causing us to either incur higher circulation expense to maintain our rate bases, or to reduce our rate bases which could negatively impact our revenue. Our websites and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, which could disrupt our operations and result in the theft of our and our users’ proprietary or personal information. Our Internet activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and personal information of our users. We endeavor to protect our proprietary information and personal information of our users from third party access. However, it is possible that unauthorized persons may be able to circumvent our protections and misappropriate proprietary or personal information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our Internet operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or remedy any such security breaches. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, or litigation and possible liability. Our security measures and contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas may not be successful or enforceable. Martha Stewart controls our company through her stock ownership, enabling her to elect who sits on our board of directors, and potentially to block matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential changes of control. Ms. Stewart controls all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing approximately 91% of our voting power. The Class B common stock has ten votes per share, while Class A common stock, which is the stock available to the public, has one vote per share. Because of this dual-class structure, Ms. Stewart has a disproportionately influential vote. As a result, Ms. Stewart has the ability to control unilaterally the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and the ability to control our management and affairs. While her 2006 settlement with the SEC bars Ms. Stewart for the five-year period ending in August 2011 from serving at the Company as a director, or as an officer with financial responsibilities, her concentrated control could, among other things, discourage others from 17 Table of Contents initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses and stockholders. Our intellectual property may be infringed upon or others may accuse us of infringing on their intellectual property, either of which could adversely affect our business and result in costly litigation. Our business is highly dependent upon our creativity and resulting intellectual property. We are also susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, upon which we are materially dependent. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. If we are alleged to have infringed the intellectual property rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly, affecting our finances and our reputation. Litigation also diverts the time and resources of management, regardless of the merits of the claim. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation relating to our intellectual property. If we were to lose such a case, and be required to cease the sale of certain products or the use of certain technology or were forced to pay monetary damages, the results could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. A loss of the services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon a number of key members of our creative staff. The loss of some of our senior executives or key members of our creative staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. Continued growth and success in our business depends, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We operate in four highly competitive businesses: Publishing, Merchandising, Internet and Broadcasting each of which subjects us to competitive pressures. We face intense competitive pressures and uncertainties in each of our four businesses: Publishing, Merchandising, Internet and Broadcasting. Please see “Business — Publishing—Competition,” “Business — Merchandising—Competition,” “Business — Internet—Competition” and “Business — Broadcasting—Competition,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our competitive risks in the applicable business line. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 18 Table of Contents 