ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a great deal of risk. Careful consideration should be made of the following factors as well as other information included in this prospectus before deciding to purchase our common stock. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in other countries. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. 16 Risks Relating to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Laiyang Jiangbo commenced operations in 2003 and first achieved profitability in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the pharmaceutical industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: . maintain our market position in the pharmaceuticals business in China; . offer new and innovative products to attract and retain a larger customer base; . attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; . increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop user and customer loyalty; . respond to competitive market conditions; . respond to changes in our regulatory environment; . manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; . maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; . raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; . attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and . upgrade our technology to support additional research and development of new products. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional financing to execute our business plan. The revenues from the production and sale of pharmaceutical products and the projected revenues from these products may not be adequate to support our expansion and product development programs. We may need substantial additional funds to build our new production facilities, pursue further research and development, obtain regulatory approvals, market our products, and file, prosecute, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights. We will seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources. We could enter into collaborative arrangements for the development of particular products that would lead to our relinquishing some or all rights to the related technology or products. There are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we will need to reduce, defer or cancel development programs, planned initiatives or overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on collaborative partners, licensees and other third parties over whom we have limited control. Due to the complexity of the process of developing pharmaceuticals, our core business depends on arrangements with pharmaceutical institutes, corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical testing, technology rights, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our products. We have several research collaborations. Our license agreements could obligate us to diligently bring potential products to market, make milestone payments and royalties that, in some instances, could be substantial, and incur the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. There are no assurances that we will be able to establish or maintain collaborations that are important to our business on favorable terms, or at all. 17 A number of risks arise from our dependence on collaborative agreements with third parties. Product development and commercialization efforts could be adversely affected if any collaborative partner: . terminates or suspends its agreement with us; . causes delays; . fails to timely develop or manufacture in adequate quantities a substance needed in order to conduct clinical trials; . fails to adequately perform clinical trials; . determines not to develop, manufacture or commercialize a product to which it has rights; or . otherwise fails to meet its contractual obligations. Our collaborative partners could pursue other technologies or develop alternative products that could compete with the products we are developing. The profitability of our products will depend in part on our ability to protect proprietary rights and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The profitability of our products will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and licenses and preserve trade secrets, and the period our intellectual property remains exclusive. We must also operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without third parties circumventing our rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical enterprises, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are largely unresolved. The pharmaceutical patent situation outside the US is uncertain, is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries, and may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the US. Because patent applications are maintained in secrecy in some cases, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors are the first creators of inventions described in our pending patent applications or patents or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Most of our drug products have been approved by the PRC's Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”) but have not received patent protection. For instance, Clarithromycin sustained-release tablets, one of our most profitable products, are produced by other companies in China. If any other company were to obtain patent protection for Clarithromycin sustained-release tablets in China, or for any of our other drug products, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Other companies may independently develop similar products and design around any patented products we develop. We cannot assure you that: . any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; . we will develop additional patentable products; . the patents we have been issued will provide us with any competitive advantages; . the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business; or . third parties will not be able to circumvent our patents. 18 A number of pharmaceutical, research, and academic companies and institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on technologies that may relate to our business. If these technologies, applications or patents conflict with ours, the scope of our current or future patents could be limited or our patent applications could be denied. Our business may be adversely affected if competitors independently develop competing technologies, especially if we do not obtain, or obtain only narrow, patent protection. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other companies, we may not be able to obtain licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all; develop our technology; or introduce, manufacture or sell the products we have planned. Patent litigation is becoming widespread in the pharmaceutical industry. Such litigation may affect our efforts to form collaborations, to conduct research or development, to conduct clinical testing or to manufacture or market any products under development. There are no assurances that our patents would be held valid or enforceable by a court or that a competitor's technology or product would be found to infringe our patents in the event of patent litigation. Our business could be materially affected by an adverse outcome to such litigation. Similarly, we may need to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or equivalent international authorities to determine priority of invention. We could incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend our patent position or to seek a declaration that another company's patents are invalid. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable, though it may constitute trade secrets. There are no assurances that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that any of our existing confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors or collaborators will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Collaborators, advisors or consultants may dispute the ownership of proprietary rights to our technology, for example by asserting that they developed the technology independently. We may encounter difficulties in manufacturing our products Before our products can be profitable, they must be produced in commercial quantities in a cost-effective manufacturing process that complies with regulatory requirements, including GMP, production and quality control regulations. If we cannot arrange for or maintain commercial-scale manufacturing on acceptable terms, or if there are delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process, we may not be able to conduct clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval or meet demand for our products. Production of our products could require raw materials which are scarce or which can be obtained only from a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, the development, regulatory approval and marketing of our products could be delayed. We could need more clinical trials or take more time to complete our clinical trials than we have planned. Clinical trials vary in design by factors including dosage, end points, length, and controls. We may need to conduct a series of trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products. The results of these trials may not demonstrate safety or efficacy sufficiently for regulatory authorities to approve our products. Further, the actual schedules for our clinical trials could vary dramatically from the forecasted schedules due to factors including changes in trial design, conflicts with the schedules of participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and changes affecting product supplies for clinical trials. We rely on collaborators, including academic institutions, governmental agencies and clinical research organizations, to conduct, supervise, monitor and design some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our products. Since these trials depend on governmental participation and funding, we have less control over their timing and design than trials we sponsor. Delays in or failure to commence or complete any planned clinical trials could delay the ultimate timelines for our product releases. Such delays could reduce investors' confidence in our ability to develop products, likely causing our share price to decrease. 19 We may not be able to obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances that are necessary to commercialize our products. The PRC and other countries impose significant statutory and regulatory obligations upon the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products. Each regulatory authority typically has a lengthy approval process in which it examines pre-clinical and clinical data and the facilities in which the product is manufactured. Regulatory submissions must meet complex criteria to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the ultimate products. Addressing these criteria requires considerable data collection, verification and analysis. We may spend time and money preparing regulatory submissions or applications without assurances as to whether they will be approved on a timely basis or at all. Our product candidates, some of which are currently in the early stages of development, will require significant additional development and pre-clinical and clinical testing prior to their commercialization. These steps and the process of obtaining required approvals and clearances can be costly and time-consuming. If our potential products are not successfully developed, cannot be proven to be safe and effective through clinical trials, or do not receive applicable regulatory approvals and clearances, or if there are delays in the process: . the commercialization of our products could be adversely affected; . any competitive advantages of the products could be diminished; and . revenues or collaborative milestones from the products could be reduced or delayed. Governmental and regulatory authorities may approve a product candidate for fewer indications or narrower circumstances than requested or may condition approval on the performance of post-marketing studies for a product candidate. Even if a product receives regulatory approval and clearance, it may later exhibit adverse side effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that would force us to withdraw the product from the market. Any marketed product and its manufacturer will continue to be subject to strict regulation after approval. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the further marketing of products. Unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market and possible civil actions. In manufacturing our products we will be required to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we cannot comply with regulatory requirements, including applicable good manufacturing practice requirements, we may not be allowed to develop or market the product candidates. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusal of regulatory agencies to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approve applications, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecution. Competitors may develop and market pharmaceutical products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making our products obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from pharmaceutical companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired curative effect than products we are developing. Alternative products may be developed that are more effective, work faster and are less costly than our products. Competitors may succeed in developing products earlier than us, obtaining approvals and clearances for such products more rapidly than us, or developing products that are more effective than ours. In addition, other forms of treatment may be competitive with our products. Over time, our technology or products may become obsolete or uncompetitive. 20 Our products may not gain market acceptance. Our products may not gain market acceptance in the pharmaceutical community. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, clinical advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the products. Limited information regarding these factors is available in connection with our products or products that may compete with ours. To directly market and distribute our pharmaceutical products, we or our collaborators require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to further establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms. If we or our partners cannot successfully market and sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Our revenue is highly concentrated on four of our products. Our top four products, which include Clarithromycin sustained-release tablets, Itopride Hydrochloride granules, Baobaole Chewable tablets and Radix Isatidis Disperable tablets generated approximately 99.6% of our total revenues in 2010 and 98% of our total revenues in 2009. We expect that these four products will continue to account for a majority of our sales in the near future. Because of our dependence on a few products, any disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing operations, sales operations or distribution channels, relating to any of these products could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and the use of our products could subject us to damages relating to injuries or accidental contamination. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to PRC national, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving hazardous materials, we could be held liable for resulting damages. We are not insured with respect to this liability. Such liability could exceed our resources. In the future we could incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of agricultural and pharmaceutical products. We currently do not have product liability insurance. We are not insured with respect to this liability. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we develop may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. 21 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Wubo Cao our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We depend on a core management and scientific team. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objective of commercializing our product candidates. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing and government regulation. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. We may not be able to manage the expansion of our operations effectively, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The revenues from the production and sale of our current product offerings and the projected revenues from these products may not be adequate to support our expansion and product development programs. We will need substantial additional funds to expand our production facilities, pursue research and development, obtain regulatory approvals; file, prosecute, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights and market our products. We will seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources. We could enter into collaborative arrangements for the development of particular products that would lead to our relinquishing some or all rights to the related technology or products. There are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we will need to reduce, defer or cancel development programs, planned initiatives or overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity, Laiyang Jiangbo, and its shareholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 The PRC government restricts foreign investment in pharmaceutical businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through Laiyang Jiangbo. Laiyang Jiangbo holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our pharmaceutical business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Laiyang Jiangbo and its shareholders that allow us to substantially control Laiyang Jiangbo. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of pharmaceutical business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The PRC government regulates the pharmaceutical industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the pharmaceutical industry include the following: . we only have contractual control over Laiyang Jiangbo. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in Chinese businesses; and . uncertainties relating to the regulation of the pharmaceutical business in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, pharmaceutical businesses in China, including our business. Our contractual arrangements with Laiyang Jiangbo and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since the law of the PRC limits foreign equity ownership in pharmaceutical companies in China, we operate our business through Laiyang Jiangbo. We have no equity ownership interest in Laiyang Jiangbo and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such business. These contractual arrangements may not be effective in providing control over Laiyang Jiangbo as direct ownership. For example, Laiyang Jiangbo could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Laiyang Jiangbo fails to perform under its agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under the law of the PRC, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that Laiyang Jiangbo's shareholders would always act in our best interests. 23 The chairman of the board of directors of Laiyang Jiangbo has potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Cao Wubo, our Chairman, is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors and General Manager of Laiyang Jiangbo. Conflicts of interests between his duties to our company and Laiyang Jiangbo may arise. As Mr. Cao is a director and executive officer of our company, he has a duty of loyalty and care to us under Florida law when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and Laiyang Jiangbo. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Cao will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Cao could violate his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between us and Mr. Cao, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in the disruption of our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We believe our shareholders who are PRC residents, as defined in Circular 75, have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, or that they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 24 If the PRC enacts regulations which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to grow may be severely impaired. We intend to expand our business in areas relating to our present business. We may also expand by making acquisitions of companies in related industries. Many of the rules and regulations that we would face are not explicitly communicated, and we may be subject to rules that would affect our ability to grow, either internally or through acquisition of other Chinese or foreign companies. There are also substantial uncertainties regarding the proper interpretation of current laws and regulations of the PRC. New laws or regulations that forbid foreign investment could severely impair our businesses and prospects. Additionally, if the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business and other licenses; and · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations. Any deterioration of political relations between the United States and the PRC could impair our operations and your investment in us. The relationship between the United States and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential acquisition candidates or their goods and services to become less attractive. Such a change could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations between the United States and the PRC could have a material adverse effect on our operations and your investment in us, particularly in our efforts to raise capital to expand our other business activities. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China's economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to: · the amount of government involvement; · level of development; · growth rate; · control of foreign exchange; and · allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 25 Price controls may affect both our revenues and net income. The laws of the PRC provide for the government to fix and adjust prices. Although we are not presently subject to price controls in connection with the sale of our products, it is possible that price controls may be imposed in the future. To the extent that we are subject to price control, our revenue, gross profit, gross margin and net income will be affected since the revenue we derive from our sales will be limited and, unless there is also price control on the products that we purchase from our suppliers, we may face no limitation on our costs. Further, if price controls affect both our revenue and our costs, our ability to be profitable and the extent of our profitability will be effectively subject to determination by the applicable regulatory authorities in the PRC. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of OECD member countries. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been making a transition to a more market-oriented economy, although the government imposes price controls on certain products and in certain industries. However, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The economy of the PRC also differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”), an international group of member countries sharing a commitment to democratic government and market economy. For instance: · the level of state-owned enterprises in the PRC, as well as the level of governmental control over the allocation of resources is greater than in most of the countries belonging to the OECD; · the level of capital reinvestment is lower in the PRC than in other countries that are members of the OECD; · the government of the PRC has a greater involvement in general in the economy and the economic structure of industries within the PRC than other countries belonging to the OECD; · the government of the PRC imposes price controls on certain products and our products may become subject to additional price controls; and · the PRC has various impediments in place that make it difficult for foreign firms to obtain local currency, as opposed to other countries belonging to the OECD where exchange of currencies is generally free from restriction. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the economy of the PRC were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Because some of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them in the PRC. Most of our executive officers and directors reside in the PRC and a substantial portion of our assets are located in the PRC. It may therefore be difficult for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. 26 We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under contracts with third parties. Almost all of our agreements with our employees and third parties, including our supplier and customers, are governed by the laws of the PRC. The legal system in the PRC is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, such as we have in the United States, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. The government of the PRC has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance or to seek an injunction under Chinese law are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in the economy of the PRC may slow our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business especially if it results in either a decreased use of products such as ours or in pressure on us to lower our prices. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in reduced demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of pharmaceutical investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. 27 Downturns in the economies of the U.S. and Europe may affect the PRC economy which could reduce the demand for our products. The rapid growth of the PRC economy in recent years has been partially related to the U.S. and European countries’ demand for goods made in and exported from the PRC. The downturns in the U.S. and European economies may reduce the demand for goods exported by the PRC which could eventually affect the PRC economy as overseas orders decrease. The downturn in the PRC economy may in turn negatively impact the demand for our products. If certain tax exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct corporate withholding taxes from any dividends we may pay in the future. Under the PRC’s current tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from paying withholding taxes with respect dividends paid to stockholders outside of the PRC. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from any dividends we may pay to our stockholders. Laiyang Jiangbo is subject to restrictions on making payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the State of Florida and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our affiliated entity in China, Laiyang Jiangbo. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on payments from Laiyang Jiangbo under our contractual arrangements. The operating agreement signed between our 100% own subsidiary, Genesis Jiangbo (Laiyang) Biotech Technologies Co., Ltd (“GJBT”) and Laiyang Jiangbo provides that Laiyang Jiangbo agrees to accept advices regarding corporate policy advise by GJBT in connection with Laiyang Jiangbo’s daily operations and financial management. Thus, Laiyang Jiangbo is obligated to accept our request to repatriate funds from Laiyang Jiangbo. However, as the PRC government imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIE’s, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still subject to certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. These rules are subject to change. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Our company is a FIE to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. See “Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if our affiliated entity in China incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to make payments. If we are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. 28 Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our affiliated Chinese entity, Laiyang Jiangbo. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the prospectus. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from Laiyang Jiangbo. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on fees paid to us by our affiliated entity in China. Any significant fluctuation in value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into RMB, as RMB is our reporting currency. 29 We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 virus or another epidemic or outbreak. Since all of our operations are in China, H1N1 virus, Asian Bird Flu or other epidemic in China in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our production facilities or of our offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of health epidemics or any other outbreaks. Risks Related to Our Convertible Debentures and Convertible Notes We are currently delinquent in the payment of interest under our 6% Convertible Debentures and our 6% Convertible Notes. As a result of the delay in our ability to transfer cash out of the PRC, we became delinquent in the payment of interest on our 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures dated November 6, 2007 (the “2007 Notes”) and our 6% Convertible Notes dated May 30, 2008 (the “2008 Notes”) in December 2009. We have been engaged in continuing discussions with the holder of the 2007 Notes and the holders of the 2008 Notes with respect to this payment delinquency. In addition, we have made and are continuing to make efforts to seek an adequate remedy to these payment delinquencies. However, to date, we have remained unable to make these payments. As of September 27. 2010, a total of $0.9 million in delinquent accrued interest and related penalties was owed to the holder of the 2007 Notes and a total of $4.1 million in delinquent accrued interest and related penalties was owed to the holders of the 2008 Notes. To date, no acceleration notice has been received by the Company from the holder of the 2007 Notes or the required holders of the 2008 Notes. However, there can be no assurance that the holder of the 2007 Notes and/or the required holders of the 2008 Notes will not deliver an acceleration notice to the Company in the future. As of September 27, 2010, $4 million aggregate principal amount of the 2007 Notes and $14.4 million aggregate principal amount of the 2008 Notes remained outstanding. In the event that the holder of the 2007 Notes and/or the required holders of the 2008 Notes deliver an acceleration notice with respect to the 2007 Notes and/or the 2008 Notes, such Notes will become immediately due and payable and there will be a cross-default with respect to the other series of Notes. In the event that we are unable to repay the 2007 Notes and/or the 2008 Notes, upon such an acceleration, we may be forced to seek protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. We are required to repay the 2007 Notes on or prior to November 7, 2010 and the 2008 Notes on or prior to May 30, 2011. On November 7, 2010, we will be required to repay the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2007 Notes, together with all accrued interest and penalties. On May 30, 2011, we will be required to repay the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2008 Notes, together with all accrued interest and penalties. While we believe that we will be able to timely and successfully repay or refinance the 2007 Notes and the 2008 Notes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. In the event that we are unable to repay the 2007 Notes, when due, the required holders of the 2008 Notes may deliver an acceleration notice to the Company with respect to the 2008 Notes. In the event that we are unable to timely repay the 2007 Notes and/or the 2008 Notes, we may be forced to seek protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. 30 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on any of our capital stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends, if any, would be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, and general financial condition. The payment of any dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to implement our business plan; accordingly, we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends in the foreseeable future. Our common shares are thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or "thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; adverse outcomes; the termination of our contractual agreements with Laiyang Jiangbo; and additions or departures of our key personnel, as well as other items discussed under this "Risk Factors" section, as well as elsewhere in this report. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. The market price for our stock may be volatile and the volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: 31 · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in pharmaceutical and agricultural markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other pharmaceutical companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; · intellectual property litigation; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. Our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities own approximately 39% of our outstanding common shares, representing approximately 39% of our voting power. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these shareholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as shareholders will be viewed favorably by all shareholders of our company. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Florida law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Florida law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. 32 Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rule changes are likely to increase general and administrative costs and expenses. In addition, insurers are likely to increase premiums as a result of high claims rates over the past several years, which we expect will increase our premiums for insurance policies. Further, there could be changes in certain accounting rules. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. Past activities of Genesis and its affiliates may lead to future liability. Prior to the Exchange Agreement among Genesis, Karmoya and the Karmoya Shareholders executed on October 1, 2007, we engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Neither Genesis’s prior management nor any of its shareholders prior to the Exchange Transaction are providing indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations and warranties made regarding such acquisition, and any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on our company. For example, we are aware of three lawsuits arising from past activities of Genesis, alleging breach of contract. Please see “Legal Proceedings” for more information. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flows from operations and the net proceeds from a proposed offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Existing stockholders may experience some dilution as a result of the exercise of warrants. In conjunction with the issuance of the 2008 Notes, we issued Class A warrants to purchase, collectively, up to 1,875,000 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment at an exercise price of $10 per share (the “2008 Warrants”). In conjunction with the issuance of the 2007 Notes, we issued, warrants to purchase, collectively, up to 400,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8 per share (the “2007 Warrants”). Any issuances of shares upon any exercise of these warrants will cause dilution in the interests of our shareholders. As of September 27, 2010, no shares of common stock had been issued in connection with the exercise of the 2008 Warrants and the exercise of the 2007 Warrants. 33 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, for issuers that are not “smaller reporting companies”, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As of June 30, 2010, we were a smaller reporting company. However, our status may change in the future. In any case, our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, in the event that our status changes from that of a smaller reporting company and we are required to provide an auditor attestation report, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management's assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other new rules subsequently implemented by SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. ITEM 