ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file with the SEC. In addition, members of our senior management make forward-looking statements orally in presentations to analysts, investors, the media and others. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our objectives and expectations with respect to our financial plan (including expectations for earnings, comparable store sales, gross margin, selling, general and administrative expenses, operating margin, interest expense, income tax expense and capital expenditures for fiscal year 2014), merchandising and marketing strategies, acquisitions and dispositions, share repurchases, store openings, renovations, remodeling and expansion, inventory management and performance, liquidity and cash flows, capital structure, capital expenditures, development of our information technology and telecommunications plans and related management information systems, ecommerce initiatives, human resource initiatives and other statements regarding our plans and objectives. In addition, the words "plans to," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," "forecast," "can," "could," "should," "will," "may," or similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but some of these statements may use other phrasing. These forward-looking statements are intended to relay our expectations about the future, and speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise publicly or otherwise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated or expected results expressed in or suggested by these forward-looking statements. If the general economy performs poorly, discretionary spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be, "luxuries" may not grow and may decrease. Jewelry purchases are discretionary and may be affected by adverse trends in the general economy (and consumer perceptions of those trends). In addition, a number of other factors affecting consumers such as employment, wages and salaries, business conditions, energy costs, credit availability and taxation policies, for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate, can impact sales and earnings. A serious economic downturn could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Declining confidence in either the U.S. or Canadian economies where we are active could adversely affect consumers' ability and willingness to purchase our products in those regions. Should either of these economies suffer a serious economic downturn, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents The concentration of a substantial portion of our sales in three relatively brief selling periods means that our performance is more susceptible to disruptions. A substantial portion of our sales are derived from three selling periodsHoliday (Christmas), Valentine's Day and Mother's Day. Because of the briefness of these three selling periods, the opportunity for sales to recover in the event of a disruption or other difficulty is limited, and the impact of disruptions and difficulties can be significant. For instance, adverse weather (such as a blizzard or hurricane), a significant interruption in the receipt of products (whether because of vendor or other product problems), or a sharp decline in mall traffic occurring during one of these selling periods could materially impact sales for the affected period and, because of the importance of each of these selling periods, commensurately impact overall sales and earnings. Any disruption in the supply of finished goods from our largest merchandise vendors could adversely impact our sales. We purchase substantial amounts of finished goods from our five largest merchandise vendors. If our supply with these top vendors was disrupted, particularly at certain critical times of the year, our sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until alternative supply arrangements could be established. Most of our sales are of products that include diamonds, precious metals and other commodities. A substantial portion of our purchases and sales occur outside the United States. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities or exchange rates could impact our ability to obtain, produce and sell products at favorable prices. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world market are significantly influenced by the DTC, which has traditionally controlled the marketing of a substantial majority of the world's supply of diamonds and sells rough diamonds to worldwide diamond cutters at prices determined in its sole discretion. The DTC's share of the diamond supply chain has decreased over recent years, which may result in more volatility in rough diamond prices. The availability of diamonds also is somewhat dependent on the political conditions in diamond-producing countries and on the continuing supply of raw diamonds. Any sustained interruption in this supply could have an adverse affect on our business. We also are affected by fluctuations in the price of diamonds, gold and other commodities. A significant change in prices of key commodities could adversely affect our business by reducing operating margins or decreasing consumer demand if retail prices are increased significantly. In the past, our vendors have experienced significant increases in commodity costs, especially diamond, gold and silver costs. If significant increases in commodity prices occur in the future, it could result in higher merchandise costs, which could materially impact our earnings. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations impact costs and cash flows associated with our Canadian operations and the acquisition of inventory from international vendors. A substantial portion of our raw materials and finished goods are sourced in countries generally described as having developing economies. Any instability in these economies could result in an interruption of our supplies, increases in costs, legal challenges and other difficulties. In August 2012, the SEC issued rules that require companies that manufacture products using certain minerals, including gold, to determine whether those minerals originated in the DRC or adjoining countries. If the minerals originate in the DRC, or if companies are not able to establish where they originated, extensive disclosure regarding the sources of those minerals, and in some instances an independent audit of the supply chain, is required. The costs of complying with the new rules are not expected to be material. The Company will be required to file its first disclosure report by May 31, 2014 for the calendar year ending December 31, 2013. 12 Table of Contents There may also be reputational risks with guests and other stakeholders if, due to the complexity of the global supply chain, we are unable to sufficiently verify the origin for the relevant metals. Also, if the responses of portions of our supply chain to the verification requests are adverse, it may harm our ability to obtain merchandise and add to compliance costs. Other minerals, such as diamonds, could be added to those currently covered by these rules. Our sales are dependent upon mall traffic. Our stores and kiosks are located primarily in shopping malls throughout the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Our success is in part dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of malls, their tenants and other mall attractions to generate customer traffic. Accordingly, a significant decline in this popularity, especially if it is sustained, would substantially harm our sales and earnings. In addition, even assuming this popularity continues, mall traffic can be negatively impacted by mall renovations, weather, gas prices and similar factors. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry. The retail jewelry business is highly competitive and fragmented, and we compete with nationally recognized jewelry chains as well as a large number of independent regional and local jewelry retailers and other types of retailers who sell jewelry and gift items, such as department stores and mass merchandisers. We also compete with internet sellers of jewelry. Because of the breadth and depth of this competition, we are constantly under competitive pressure that both constrains pricing and requires extensive merchandising efforts in order for us to remain competitive. Any failure by us to manage our inventory effectively, including judgments related to consumer preferences and demand, will negatively impact our financial condition, sales and earnings. We purchase much of our inventory well in advance of each selling period. In the event we do not stock merchandise consumers wish to purchase or misjudge consumer demand, we will experience lower sales than expected and will have excessive inventory that may need to be written down in value or sold at prices that are less than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and our inability to keep pace with consumer preferences and expectations could adversely affect our financial performance. Our guests are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online for our products. There are various risks relating to omnichannel retailing, including the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, internet security risks, risks of systems failure or inadequacy and increased competition. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these risks, including through maintenance of customer service and guest relationships, demand for our products and services and our financial performance could be adversely affected. Further, governmental regulation of internet-based commerce continues to evolve in areas such as taxation, privacy, data protection and mobile communications. Unfavorable changes to regulations in these areas could have a negative effect on our business. Unfavorable consumer responses to price increases or misjudgments about the level of markdowns could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. From time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the retail prices of our products. Significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the guest to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower unit sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact 13 Table of Contents earnings. In addition, if we misjudge the level of markdowns required to sell our merchandise at acceptable turn rates, sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. Any failure of our pricing and promotional strategies to be as effective as desired will negatively impact our sales and earnings. We set the prices for our products and establish product specific and store-wide promotions in order to generate store traffic and sales. While these decisions are intended to maximize our sales and earnings, in some instances they do not. For instance, promotions, which can require substantial lead time, may not be as effective as desired or may prove unnecessary in certain economic circumstances. Where we have implemented a pricing or promotional strategy that does not work as expected, our sales and earnings will be adversely impacted. Any inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings. In specialty jewelry retailing, the level and quality of customer service is a key competitive factor as nearly every in-store transaction involves the sales associate taking a piece of jewelry or a watch out of a display case and presenting it to the potential guest. Competition for suitable individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Therefore an inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings. Because of our dependence upon a small concentrated number of landlords for a substantial number of our locations, any significant erosion of our relationships with those landlords or their financial condition would negatively impact our ability to obtain and retain store locations. We are significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs that allow us to earn a reasonable return on our locations. We depend on the leasing market and our landlords to determine supply, demand, lease cost and operating costs and conditions. We cannot be certain as to when or whether desirable store locations will become or remain available to us at reasonable lease and operating costs. Several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls, and we are dependent upon maintaining good relations with those landlords in order to obtain and retain store locations on optimal terms. From time to time, we do have disagreements with our landlords and a significant disagreement, if not resolved, could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, any financial weakness on the part of our landlords could adversely impact us in a number of ways, including decreased marketing by the landlords and the loss of other tenants that generate mall traffic. Any disruption in, or changes to, our private label credit card arrangements may adversely affect our ability to provide consumer credit and write credit insurance. We rely on third party credit providers to provide financing for our guests to purchase merchandise and credit insurance through private label credit cards. Any disruption in, or changes to, our credit card agreements could adversely affect our sales and earnings. Significant restrictions in the amount of credit available to our guests could negatively impact our business and financial condition. Our guests rely heavily on financing provided by credit lenders to purchase our merchandise. The availability of credit to our guests is impacted by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and regulatory requirements relating to the extension of credit. Numerous federal and state laws impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing and enforcement of credit accounts and limitations on the maximum amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider. 14 Table of Contents Regulations implementing the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 imposed restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. Future regulations or changes in the application of current laws could further impact the availability of credit to our guests. If the amount of available credit provided to our guests is significantly restricted, our sales and earnings would be negatively impacted. We are dependent upon our revolving credit agreement, senior secured term loan and other third party financing arrangements for our liquidity needs. We have a revolving credit agreement and a senior secured term loan that contain various financial and other covenants. Should we be unable to fulfill the covenants contained in these loans, we would be in default, all outstanding amounts would be immediately due, and we would be unable to fund our operations without a significant restructuring of our business. If the credit markets deteriorate, our ability to obtain the financing needed to operate our business could be adversely impacted. We utilize a revolving credit agreement to finance our working capital requirements, including the purchase of inventory, among other things. If our ability to obtain the financing needed to meet these requirements was adversely impacted as a result of a deterioration in the credit markets, our business could be significantly impacted. In addition, the amount of available borrowings under our revolving credit agreement is based, in part, on the appraised liquidation value of our inventory. Any declines in the appraised value of our inventory could impact our ability to obtain the financing necessary to operate our business. Any security breach with respect to our information technology systems could result in legal or financial liabilities, damage to our reputation and a loss of guest confidence. During the course of our business, we regularly obtain and transmit through our information technology systems customer credit and other data. If our information technology systems are breached due to the actions of outside parties, or otherwise, an unauthorized third party may obtain access to confidential guest information. Any breach of our systems that results in unauthorized access to guest information could cause us to incur significant legal and financial liabilities, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence. In each case, these impacts could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acquisitions and dispositions involve special risk, including the risk that we may not be able to complete proposed acquisitions or dispositions or that such transactions may not be beneficial to us. We have made significant acquisitions and dispositions in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions and dispositions. Difficulty integrating an acquisition into our existing infrastructure and operations may cause us to fail to realize expected return on investment through revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and guest reach or other projected benefits from the acquisition. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings or may be unable to find attractive investment opportunities for funds received in connection with a disposition. Additionally, attractive acquisition or disposition opportunities may not be available at the time or pursuant to terms acceptable to us and we may be unable to complete the acquisition or disposition. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be subject to limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. If we were to experience an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") would be subject to annual limitations that could impact the timing of the utilization of our NOLs as well as our ability to fully utilize our NOLs prior to their 15 Table of Contents expiration. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is complex and depends upon a number of factors, including new issuances of shares by the Company and purchases and sales of shares by large stockholders, including the exercise of the outstanding warrants. Litigation and claims can adversely impact us. We are involved in various legal proceedings as part of the normal course of our business. Where appropriate, we establish reserves based on management's best estimates of our potential liability in these matters. While management believes that all current litigation and claims will be resolved without material effect on our financial position or results of operations, as with all litigation it is possible that there will be a significant adverse outcome. Ineffective internal controls can have adverse impacts on the Company. Under Federal law, we are required to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. Should we not maintain an effective system, it would result in a violation of those laws and could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements. In turn, this could result in increased audit costs, a loss of investor confidence, difficulties in accessing the capital markets, and regulatory and other actions against us. Any of these outcomes could be costly to both our shareholders and us. Changes in estimates, assumptions and judgments made by management related to our evaluation of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment could significantly affect our financial results. Evaluating goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment is highly complex and involves many subjective estimates, assumptions and judgments by our management. For instance, management makes estimates and assumptions with respect to future cash flow projections, terminal growth rates, discount rates and long-term business plans. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates, assumptions and judgments made by management, we may be required to recognize impairments. Changes in estimates related to the recognition of revenue associated with lifetime warranty sales could significantly affect our financial results. We recognize revenue related to lifetime warranty sales in proportion to when the expected costs will be incurred, which we estimate will be over an eight-year period. A significant change in estimates related to the time period or pattern in which warranty-related costs are expected to be incurred could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Additional factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Increases in expenses that are beyond our control including items such as increases in interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, higher tax rates and changes in laws and regulations (such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), may negatively impact our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 