Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 23 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B Other Information 49 Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 49 Item 11 Executive Compensation 49 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 49 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 49 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 49 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits’ Financial Statement Schedules 49 Signatures 54 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms 55 Consolidated Balance Sheets 59 Consolidated Statements of Operations 60 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 61 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 62 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 63 Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 105 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business This annual report on Form 10-K (hereinafter, the “Annual Report”) contains certain statements that are “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) and releases issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words “may,” “hope,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” and other expressions which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and which do not relate to historical matters, identify forward-looking statements. We believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our stockholders, and we, therefore, make forward-looking statements in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Act. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to accurately predict or control, and our actual results may differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the cyclicality and highly competitive nature of some of our end markets which can affect the overall demand for and pricing of our products, changes in the price of and demand for oil and gas in both domestic and international markets, variability of raw material and component pricing, changes in our suppliers’ performance, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to continue operating our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels including our ability to continue to reduce costs, our ability to generate increased cash by reducing our inventories, our prevention of the accumulation of excess inventory, our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy, increasing interest rates, our ability to continue to successfully defend product liability actions including asbestos-related claims, as well as the uncertain continuing impact on economic and financial conditions in the United States and around the world as a result of terrorist attacks, current Middle Eastern tensions and related matters. We advise you to read further about certain of these and other risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Available Information We file reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on a quarterly basis, additional reports on Form 8-K from time to time and a Definitive Proxy Statement and an annual report on Form 10-K on an annual basis. These and other reports filed by us, or furnished by us, to the SEC in accordance with section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge from the SEC on its website at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, our Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and Form 10-K reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC, from our website at www.circor.com by using the “Investors” hyperlink. The information on our website is not part of, or incorporated by reference, in this Annual Report. 1 Table of Contents Our History We were established by our former parent, Watts Water Technologies, Inc., formerly known as Watts Industries, Inc. (“Watts”), to continue to operate the former industrial, oil and gas businesses of Watts. On October 18, 1999, Watts distributed all of our outstanding common stock to Watts’ shareholders of record as of October 6, 1999 in a tax-free distribution. As a result, information related to historical activities of our business units also includes time periods when such units constituted the former industrial, oil and gas businesses of Watts. As used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and “CIRCOR” mean CIRCOR International, Inc. and its subsidiaries (unless the context indicates another meaning). The term “common stock” means our common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Our Business We design, manufacture and distribute a broad array of valves and related fluid-control products and certain services to a variety of end-markets for use in a wide range of applications to optimize the efficiency and/or ensure the safety of fluid-control systems. We have a global presence and operate 17 significant manufacturing facilities that are located in the United States, Canada, Western Europe and the People’s Republic of China. We have two major product groups: Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products and Energy Products. As of December 31, 2007, our products were sold through nearly 1,400 distributors and we serviced more than 10,000 customers in over 130 countries around the world. Within our major product groups, we have used both internal product development and strategic acquisitions to assemble an array of fluid-control products and technologies that enable us to fulfill our customers’ unique fluid-control application needs. Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group—The Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group designs, manufactures and distributes valves, fittings and controls for diverse end-uses, including instrumentation, aerospace, cryogenic and steam applications. Selected products include precision valves, compression tube fittings, control valves, relief valves, butterfly valves, solenoid valves, couplers, regulators, switches, strainers, samplers and aerospace landing gear. The Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group consists primarily of the following product brand names: Aerodyne Controls; Circle Seal Controls; Loud Engineering; Industria; Hale Hamilton; Leslie Controls; Nicholson Steam Trap; GO Regulator; Hoke; Spence Engineering; Atkomatic Valve; CPC-Cryolab; RTK; Rockwood Swendeman; Spence Strainers; Dopak Sampling Systems, Texas Sampling, Tomco Quick Couplers and U.S. Para Plate. The Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group accounted for $343.6 million, or 52%, of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. We have had a long-standing presence in the steam application markets, starting with our 1984 acquisition of Spence Engineering Company, Inc. (“Spence Engineering” or “Spence”) and our 1989 acquisitions of Leslie Controls, Inc. (“Leslie Controls”) and Nicholson Steam Trap, Inc. (“Nicholson Steam Trap”). In January 1999, we acquired SSI Equipment Inc. which added a wide variety of strainers (now operated under the Spence Strainers name) to expand our industrial products line. In June 2001, we acquired Regeltechnik Kornwestheim GmbH and certain of its affiliates (“RTK”). In February 2006 we acquired Hale Hamilton Valves Limited (“Hale Hamilton”). We believe that we have a very strong franchise in steam valve products. Both Leslie Controls and Nicholson Steam Trap have been in the 2 Table of Contents steam pressure reduction and control business for over 100 years. Spence Engineering has also been in these businesses for nearly 80 years. Hale Hamilton is a leading provider of high pressure valves and flow control equipment to the naval defense, industrial gas and high technology industrial markets. Due to the reputation of each of these businesses for reliability and quality, customers often specifically request our products by brand name. Our steam valve products are used in: municipal and institutional steam heating and air-conditioning applications; power plants; industrial and food processing; and commercial and military maritime applications. Commencing with the 1990 acquisition of Circle Seal Controls, Inc. (“Circle Seal”), a manufacturer of miniature instrumentation valves, we have acquired fifteen businesses that serve the instrumentation and aerospace fluid control markets. These acquisitions included Aerodyne Controls (“Aerodyne”) in December 1997, Atkomatic Valve (“Atkomatic”) in April 1998, Hoke, Inc. (“Hoke”) in July 1998, GO Regulator in April 1999, Tomco Products, Inc. (“Tomco”) and U.S. Para Plate Corporation (“U.S. Para Plate”) in October 2002, DQS International (“DQS”) in November 2003, Texas Sampling, Inc. (“TSI”) in December 2003, Loud Engineering & Manufacturing (“Loud”) in January 2005 and Industria S.A. (“Industria”) in October 2005. In July 2007, we purchased the assets of Survival Engineering, Inc. (“SEI”) which were merged into our Aerodyne subsidiary. Aerodyne manufactures high-precision valve components for the medical, analytical, military and aerospace markets. Aerodyne also provides advanced technologies and control systems capabilities to other companies in the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group. The Atkomatic product line consists of heavy-duty process solenoid valves that automate the regulation and sequencing of liquid levels or volume flow. The GO Regulator products include a complete line of specialized cylinder valves, customized valves and pneumatic pressure regulators for instrumentation, analytical and process applications. The Tomco brand is a full line of quick connect and disconnect couplers for general-purpose industrial applications and more sophisticated instrumentation markets. The U.S. Para Plate products involve high-pressure valves and regulators for aerospace and military applications. DQS and TSI manufacture and sell analytical sampling products. Loud is a designer and manufacturer of landing gear systems and related components for military helicopters and jet aircraft, and Industria produces solenoid valves and components for commercial and military applications. Energy Products Group—The Energy Products Group designs, manufactures and distributes flanged-end and threaded-end floating and trunnion ball valves, needle valves, check valves, butterfly valves, large forged steel ball valves, gate valves, control valves, relief valves, pressure regulators, pipeline measurement and pipeline closures for use in oil, gas and chemical processing and industrial applications. We believe that our Energy Products Group is one of the leading producers of ball valves for the oil and natural gas markets worldwide. The Energy Products Group consists primarily of the following product brand names: KF; Contromatics; Pibiviesse; Mallard Control, Hydroseal, and Sagebrush. The Energy Products Group accounted for $322.1 million, or 48%, of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. We entered the energy products market in 1978 with the formation by Watts of the industrial products division and our development of a floating ball valve for industrial and chemical processing applications. With the acquisition of KF Industries, Inc. (“KF Industries”) in July 1988, we expanded our product offerings to include floating and trunnion-supported ball valves and needle valves. KF Industries gave us 3 Table of Contents entry into the oil and gas transmission, distribution and exploration markets. In 1989, we acquired Eagle Check Valve, which added check valves to our product line. Pibiviesse Srl (“Pibiviesse”), based in Nerviano, Italy, was acquired in November 1994. Pibiviesse manufactures forged steel ball valves for the petrochemical market, including a complete range of trunnion-mounted ball valves. Pibiviesse’s manufacturing capabilities include valve sizes up through 60 inches in diameter, including very high pressure ratings to meet demanding international oil and gas pipeline and production requirements. In March 1998, we acquired and added Telford Valve and Specialties, Inc. (now referred to as “KF Canada”) to KF Industries. KF Canada had been one of KF Industries’ largest distributors. With this acquisition KF Industries increased its presence in Canada, and introduced KF Canada’s products (check valves and specialty gate valves) through its worldwide representative network. KF Canada also has assumed the Canadian sales activities for other of our Energy Products Group companies to strengthen our overall sales presence in Canada. During 1999, we consolidated the industrial products division of Watts under the KF Contromatics name into KF Industries in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. These industrial products consist of carbon steel and stainless steel ball valves, butterfly valves and pneumatic actuators that are used in a variety of industrial, pulp, paper and chemical processing applications. In April 2004, we acquired Mallard Control Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hydroseal, (“Mallard”) which produces control valves, relief valves, pressure regulators, and other related products primarily for oil and gas production and processing and other petrochemical applications. During 2005, we merged the operations of Mallard and Hydroseal into KF Industries’ Oklahoma City facility and renamed the resulting entity Circor Energy Products Inc. (“CEP”). As a result, CEP now manufacturers and sells products under the KF Industries, Mallard Control, Hydroseal Valve and Contromatics names. In May 2005, we acquired the 40% interest that we did not own in our Chinese joint venture, Suzhou KF Valve Company, Ltd. (“SKVC”), located in Suzhou, People’s Republic of China. SKVC was originally formed as a joint venture with us in 1995 and manufactures two-inch through twenty-four-inch carbon and stainless steel ball valves. We sell products manufactured by SKVC to customers worldwide for oil and gas applications. In February 2006, we acquired Sagebrush Pipeline Equipment Company (“Sagebrush”) which provides pipeline flow control and measurement equipment to the North American oil and gas markets. Industry Oil and Gas and Petrochemical Markets. The oil and gas and petrochemical markets include domestic and international oil and gas exploration and production, distribution, refining, pipeline construction and maintenance, chemical processing and general industrial applications. Process and Power Markets. The process and power markets use valves to control steam and other fluids for a variety of applications, including: heating facilities; production of hot water and electricity; freeze protection of external piping; cleaning by laundries; food processing and cooking; and heat transfer applications using steam or hot water in industrial processes. HVAC and Maritime Markets. The HVAC market utilizes valves and control systems, primarily in steam-related commercial and institutional heating applications. Steam control products also are used in the maritime market, which includes the U.S. Navy and commercial shipping. 4 Table of Contents Aerospace Markets. The commercial and military aerospace markets we serve include valve and component applications and landing systems used on military combat and transport aircraft, helicopters, missiles, tracked vehicles and ships. Our products also are used on commercial, commuter and business aircraft, space launch vehicles, space shuttles and satellites. Our products also are sold into the support infrastructure for these markets, with such applications as ground support maintenance equipment. We supply products used in hydraulic, fuel, water, and air systems. Pharmaceutical, Medical and Analytical Instrumentation Markets. The pharmaceutical industry uses our products in research and development, analytical instrumentation and process measurement applications. We also market our products to original equipment manufacturers of surgical and medical instruments. Representative applications include: surgical and medical instruments; orthopedic devices and surgical supplies; diagnostic reagents; electro-medical equipment; x-ray equipment; and dental equipment. Our Business Objectives and Strategies We are focused on providing solutions for our customers’ fluid control requirements through a broad base of products and services. We have begun to transform our worldwide operations and culture through the development of lean manufacturing techniques. We believe many of our product lines have leading positions in their niche markets. Our objective is to enhance shareholder value through profitable growth of our diversified, multi-national, fluid control company. In order to achieve this objective, our key strategies are to: • Continue to build market positions and improve operational performance to customers; • Improve the profitability of our business; • Expand into various fluid control industries and markets and capitalize on integration opportunities; • Increase product offerings; and • Expand our geographic coverage. Overall, our growth strategies are expected to continue increasing our market positions, building our product offerings, enhancing marketing and distribution channels and providing additional opportunities to realize integration cost savings. Products The following table lists the principal products and markets served by each of the businesses within our two product groups. Within the majority of our product lines, we believe that we have competitively broad product offerings in terms of distinct designs, sizes and configurations of our valves and related products. Product Families Principal Products Primary Markets Served Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group Aerodyne Controls Pneumatic manifold switches; mercury-free motion switches; pneumaticvalves; control assemblies Aerospace; medical instrumentation; military; automotive 5 Table of Contents Product Families Principal Products Primary Markets Served Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group – (Continued) Circle Seal Controls Motor-operated valves; check valves;relief valves; pneumatic valves;gauges; solenoid valves; regulators General industrial; power generation; medical; pharmaceutical; aerospace; military; natural gas vehicles CPC-Cryolab and Rockwood Swendeman Cryogenic control and safety reliefvalves; valve assemblies Liquefied industrial gases; other high purity processing Dopak and Texas Sampling Systems Sampling systems for liquids,liquefied gas, and gases Chemical; petrochemical; pharmaceutical; biotech; and food and beverage industries GO Regulator Pressure reducing regulators;specialized cylinder manifolds; highpressure regulators; pneumaticpressure regulators; diaphragmvalves Analytical instrumentation; chemical processing; semiconductors Hale Hamilton Stop valves; relief valves; pressureregulators; reducing stations; fillingsystems Maritime and naval defense; industrial gas; high technology industrial Hoke Compression tube fittings;instrument ball and needle valves;cylinders; cylinder valves; actuators;modular analyzer systems General industrial; analytical instrumentation; compressed natural gas; natural gas vehicles; chemical processing; semiconductors Industria Solenoid valves and components Aerospace; commercial and military Leslie Controls Steam and water regulators; steamcontrol valves; electric actuatedshut- off valves; steam water heaters HVAC; maritime; general industrial and power; chemical processing Loud Engineering Landing gear systems; struts;solenoids; actuators Aerospace; military Nicholson Steam Trap Steam traps; condensate pumps;unions HVAC; general industrial; industrial processing RTK Control valves; regulators; actuators;and related instrumentationproducts HVAC; industrial; food and beverage; pharmaceutical Survival Engineering Inc. Inflation Valves, Inlet Check Valves,Pressure Relief Valves, Topping OffValves, Hand Pumps, Hoses andFlanges Life rafts (marine and aviation), Marine Evacuation Systems, Underwater Recovery Systems, Submarine Underwater Escape Systems Spence Engineering Safety and relief valves; pilotoperated and direct steamregulators; steam control valves HVAC; general industrial Spence Strainers Specialty strainers; check valves;butterfly valves; connectors General industrial; chemical processing; refining; power; and HVAC 6 Table of Contents Product Families Principal Products Primary Markets Served Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group – (Continued) Tomco Pneumatic and hydraulic quick couplersand safety relief valves General industrial and instrumentation U.S. Para Plate High pressure valves and regulators Aerospace; military; industrial wash systems Energy Products Group Contromatics Threaded-end and flanged-end floatingball valves; butterfly valves; pneumaticand electric actuators Oil and gas; refining; general industrial; chemical processing KF Industries Threaded-end and flanged-end floatingball valves; actuators; pipeline closures;trunnion supported ball valves; needlevalves; check valves, Mud valves; andgate valves Oil and gas exploration; production; refining and transmission; maritime; chemical processing Hydroseal Relief valves Oil and gas production and processing and other industrial applications Mallard Control Control valves; pressure regulators; andother related products Oil and gas production and processing and other industrial applications Pibiviesse Forged steel ball valves Oil and gas exploration; production; refining and transmission Sagebrush Pipeline flow control and measurementsystems Oil and gas production; refining and transmission Sales and Distribution We sell our products to distributors and end-users primarily through commissioned representatives and through our direct sales forces. Our representative networks offer technically trained sales forces with strong relationships to key markets on a variable cost (commission) basis to us. We believe that our multifaceted and well established sales and distribution channels constitute a competitive strength, providing access to our markets. We believe that we have good relationships with our representatives and distributors and we continue to implement marketing programs to enhance these relationships. Ongoing distribution-enhancement programs include shortening shelf stock delivery, reducing assemble-to-order lead times, introducing new products, and offering competitive pricing, technical training and literature. Manufacturing We have integrated and highly automated manufacturing capabilities including machining operations, assembly and testing. We also purchase machined components and finished valves to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity and to lower our overall cost of less sophisticated valve products. Our 7 Table of Contents machining operations feature computer-controlled machine tools, high-speed chucking machines and automatic screw machines for machining brass, iron, steel and aluminum components. We believe that our diverse manufacturing capabilities are essential in the valve industry in order to control product quality, to be responsive to customers’ custom design requirements and to ensure timely delivery. Product quality and performance are a priority for our customers, especially since many of our product applications involve caustic or volatile chemicals and, in many cases, involve processes that are used in the precise control of fluids. In order to further improve our profitability and increase working capital turns, we continued our implementation of lean manufacturing techniques, expanding to most of our manufacturing locations and we have also continued to further expand our foreign sourcing programs. We are committed to maintaining our manufacturing equipment at a level consistent with current technology in order to maintain high levels of quality and manufacturing efficiencies. As part of this commitment, we have spent a total of $12.0 million, $10.0 million, and $15.0 million on capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Depreciation expense for these periods was $10.9 million, $11.2 million, and $9.8 million, respectively. We believe that our current facilities will meet our near-term production requirements without the need for additional facilities. Quality Control The majority of our products require the approval of and have been approved by applicable industry standards agencies in the United States and European markets. We have consistently advocated the development and enforcement of performance and safety standards, and continually update our procedures as part of our commitment to meet these standards. We maintain quality control and testing procedures at each of our manufacturing facilities in order to produce products in compliance with these standards. Additionally, most of our major manufacturing subsidiaries in the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group have acquired ISO 9000 or 9001 certification from the International Organization for Standardization and those in the Energy Products Group have acquired American Petroleum Institute certification. Our products are designed, manufactured and tested to meet the requirements of various government or industry regulatory bodies as well as the quality control systems of certain customers. The primary industry standards that certain of our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products must meet include standards promulgated by: Underwriters’ Laboratory; American National Standards Institute; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; U.S. Military; Federal Aviation Administration; Society of Automotive Engineers; Boeing Basic and Advanced Management System; Aerospace Quality Assurance System; the American Gas Association; the Department of Transportation; and European Pressure Equipment Directive and Technical Inspection Association. The primary industry standards required to be met by, and applicable to, our Energy Products include: American National Standards Institute; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Petroleum Institute and Factory Mutual. Product Development We continue to develop new and innovative products to enhance our market positions. Our product development capabilities include the ability to design and manufacture custom applications to meet high 8 Table of Contents tolerance or close precision requirements. For example, KF Industries has fire-safe testing capabilities, Circle Seal has the ability to meet the testing specifications of the aerospace industry and Pibiviesse can meet the tolerance requirements of sub-sea and cryogenic environments. These testing and manufacturing capabilities have enabled us to develop customer-specified applications, unique characteristics of which have been subsequently utilized in broader product offerings. Our research and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, were $3.2 million, $3.2 million, and $1.9 million, respectively. Raw Materials The raw materials used most often in our production processes are stainless steel, carbon steel, aluminum, bronze, and brass. These materials are subject to price fluctuations that may adversely affect our results of operations. We purchase these materials from numerous suppliers and have recently experienced constraints on the supply of certain raw material as well as the inability of certain suppliers to respond to our increasing needs. Historically, increases in the prices of raw materials have been partially offset by increased sales prices, active materials management, project engineering programs and the diversity of materials used in our production processes. Competition The domestic and international markets for our products are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. We consider product quality, performance, price, distribution capabilities and breadth of product offerings to be the primary competitive factors in these markets. We believe that new product development and product engineering are also important to our success and that our position in the industry is attributable, in significant part, to our ability to develop innovative products quickly, and to adapt and enhance existing products to specific customer applications. The primary competitors of our Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group include: Swagelok Company; Parker Hannifin Corporation; The Ham-let Group; Samson AG; Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc; Masonneilan (a division of Dresser, Inc.); Flowseal (a division of Crane Co.); Fisher (a division of Emerson Electric Company); and ASCO. The primary competitors of our Energy Products Group include: Cameron; Balon; Crane Co.; Velan Valve Corporation; Kitz Corporation; Valvitalia SpA and ZyTech Global Industries. Trademarks and Patents We own patents that are scheduled to expire between 2008 and 2024 and trademarks that can be renewed as long as we continue to use them. We do not believe the vitality and competitiveness of either of our business segments as a whole depends on any one or more patents or trademarks. We own certain licenses such as software licenses, but we do not believe that our business as a whole depends on any one or more licenses. Customers, Cyclicality and Seasonality For the year ended December 31, 2007, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues for either the Instrumentation and Thermal Fluid Controls Products Group or the Energy Products Group. 9 Table of Contents We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. Our businesses, particularly the Energy Products Group, are cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and gas fluctuates. When the worldwide demand for oil and gas is depressed, the demand for our products used in those markets declines. Future changes in demand for petrochemical products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, although not to the same extent as the oil and gas markets, the aerospace, military and maritime markets have historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in demand that could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Backlog Our total order backlog was $422 million as of January 25, 2008, compared to $300 million as of February 10, 2007. We expect all but $85.0 million of the backlog at January 25, 2008 will be shipped by December 31, 2008. The change in our backlog was primarily due to increased orders for major international oil and gas projects. Employees As of December 31, 2007, our worldwide operations directly employed approximately 2,600 people. We have 66 employees in the United States who are covered by a single collective bargaining agreement. We also have 190 employees in Italy, 117 in France, 45 in the Netherlands and 22 in Germany, covered by governmental regulations or workers’ councils. We believe that our employee relations are good at this time. Segment and Geographic Financial Data Financial information by segment and geographic area is incorporated herein by reference to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. Government Regulation Regarding the Environment As a result of our manufacturing and assembly operations, our businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, as well as other legal requirements relating to the generation, storage, transport and disposal of materials. These laws include, without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation and Liability Act. We currently do not anticipate any materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as a result of our compliance with federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws. However, risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our manufacturing operations and there is no assurance that material liabilities or charges could not arise. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we capitalized approximately $0.5 million related to environmental and safety control facilities and we also incurred and expensed an additional $0.6 million related to environmental and safety control facilities. We also expect to capitalize $0.6 million related to environmental and safety control facilities during the year ending December 31, 2008 and also expect to incur and expense charges of approximately $0.9 million related to environmental and safety control facilities during the year ending December 31, 2008. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe are material to our stockholders. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation could be harmed. You should also consider these risk factors when you read “forward-looking statements” elsewhere in this report. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “hope,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue,” the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. Those forward-looking statements are only predictions and can be adversely affected if any of the following risks occur: Our Leslie Controls, Inc. subsidiary is subject to asbestos-related litigation that could ultimately have an adverse effect on our financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. As more fully described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”, our Leslie Controls, Inc. subsidiary (“Leslie”) has been and continues to be named as a defendant in asbestos related product liability actions. The actual amounts expended on asbestos-related claims in any year may be impacted by the number of claims filed, the volume of pre-trial proceedings, and the numbers of trials and settlements. Historically, Leslie’s defense and resolution of these asbestos-related claims has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. During the fourth quarter of 2007, Leslie recorded an additional liability of $9.0 million and anticipated insurance recoveries of $6.4 million, for the estimated indemnity cost associated with resolution of its current open claims. Although Leslie believes this estimate is reasonable, such estimate also is highly uncertain, especially because Leslie’s claims history is relatively limited, very recent, and quite variable. As a result, the actual costs of resolving these pending claims could be substantially higher or lower than the current estimate. In addition, while future claims are probable, Leslie’s management cannot estimate the losses that may arise from such future claims and we, therefore, have not accrued a liability for such future claims. Leslie also incurs significant costs in defending asbestos claims and we record these costs at the time incurred. A significant increase beyond our estimates in the cost to Leslie of resolving current claims, the incurrence of significant liability with respect to future claims, or a significant increase in the cost of defending current and future asbestos claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Leslie’s primary insurance carriers currently pay 71% of each defense and indemnity dollar incurred with respect to asbestos claims. Leslie management believes that the amount of insurance remaining in its primary layer should be sufficient to cover resolution of its current claims. While future claims are probable, we cannot estimate the amount of any liabilities associated with such future claims; however, resolution of such future claims could result in an exhaustion of the primary layer of insurance. Because Leslie has limited available excess insurance coverage, an exhaustion of its primary insurance layer would likely result in Leslie becoming responsible for a substantial majority of any defense and indemnity costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In this regard, we refer the reader to and incorporate by reference Part I, Item 3 captioned “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to Part I, Item I captioned “Legal Proceedings” in our periodic filings on Form 10-Q which provides more specific information regarding the amount of primary layer insurance remaining. 11 Table of Contents We believe that payment of any litigation-related asbestos liabilities of Leslie (Leslie currently constitutes approximately 6% of the Company’s consolidated revenues and shareholders’ equity) is legally limited to the net assets of that subsidiary. This belief is based on the principle of American law that a shareholder (including a parent corporation) is generally not liable for an incorporated entity’s obligations. Some of our end-markets are cyclical, which may cause us to experience fluctuations in revenues or operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. We sell our products principally to oil, gas, petrochemical, process, power, aerospace, military, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (“HVAC”), maritime, pharmaceutical, and medical and instrumentation markets. Although we serve a variety of markets to avoid a dependency on any one, a significant downturn in any one of these markets could cause a material reduction in our revenues that could be difficult to offset. In particular, our petrochemical business is cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and gas fluctuates. When worldwide demand for oil and gas is depressed, the demand for our products used in maintenance and repair of existing oil and gas applications, as well as exploration or new oil and gas project applications, is reduced. As a result, we historically have generated lower revenues and profits in periods of declining demand for petrochemical products. Therefore, results of operations for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for any future period. Future downturns in demand for petrochemical products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, although not to the same extent as the oil and gas markets, the aerospace, military and maritime markets have historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in demand that also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face the continuing impact of economic and financial conditions in the United States and around the world as well as current conflicts in Iraq and the rest of the Middle East. In the past, terrorist attacks have negatively impacted general economic, market and political conditions. In particular, the 2001 terrorist attacks, compounded with changes in the national economy, resulted in reduced revenues in the aerospace and general industrial markets in years 2002 and 2003. Although economic conditions have improved considerably, additional terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) could cause damage or disruption to our business, our facilities or our employees which could significantly impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility, including the current conflicts in Iraq and the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, with manufacturing facilities located worldwide, including facilities located in the United States, Canada, Western Europe and the People’s Republic of China, we may be impacted by terrorist actions not only against the United States but in other parts of the world as well. We are not insured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war for our aviation products. 12 Table of Contents If we cannot continue operating our manufacturing facilities at current or higher levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities for the production of our products. The equipment and management systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly, or fail, resulting in fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Such fluctuations may affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Commencing in 2005 and continuing in 2007, we embarked on a company wide program to implement lean manufacturing techniques. We believe that this process will produce meaningful reductions in manufacturing costs. However, implementation of these techniques may cause short-term inefficiencies in production. If we ultimately are unable to successfully implement these processes our anticipated profitability may suffer. We face significant competition in our markets and, if we are not able to respond to competition in our markets, our revenues may decrease. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in each of our markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. New competitors also could enter our markets. We consider product quality, performance, price, distribution capabilities and breadth of product offerings to be the primary competitive factors in our markets. Our competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing, duplicate our strategies, or develop enhancements to products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products. Competitive pressures, including those described above, and other factors could adversely affect our competitive position, involving a loss of market share or decreases in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices based on foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar-priced products to be less competitive than our competitors’ products that are priced in other currencies. If we experience delays in introducing new products or if our existing or new products do not achieve or maintain market acceptance, our revenues may decrease. Our industries are characterized by: intense competition; changes in end-user requirements; technically complex products; and evolving product offerings and introductions. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these factors and to offer, on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands. Failure to develop new and innovative products or to custom design existing products could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors or the inability to attract new business, either of which may adversely affect our revenues. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties, such as an inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified engineers, which could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhancements and result in unexpected expenses. 13 Table of Contents Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or could reduce our profitability. One of our continued strategies is to increase our revenues and expand our markets through acquisitions that will provide us with complementary instrumentation and thermal fluid controls and energy products. We expect to spend significant time and effort in expanding our existing businesses and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates that may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may result in higher acquisition prices. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, there can be no assurance that companies we acquire will achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify our investment in them and may result in an impairment charge. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including: adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results; diversion of management’s attention; loss of key personnel at acquired companies; or unanticipated management or operational problems or legal liabilities. Some or all of these special risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to manufacture and deliver high quality products, we may lose customers. Product quality and performance are a priority for our customers since many of our product applications involve caustic or volatile chemicals and, in many cases, involve processes that require precise control of fluids. Our products also are used in the aerospace, military, commercial aircraft, pharmaceutical, medical, analytical equipment, oil and gas exploration, transmission and refining, chemical processing, and maritime industries. These industries require products that meet stringent performance and safety standards. If we fail to maintain and enforce quality control and testing procedures, our products will not meet these stringent performance and safety standards. Substandard products would seriously harm our reputation, resulting in both a loss of current customers to our competitors and damage to our ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to continue operating successfully overseas or to successfully expand into new international markets, our revenues may decrease. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States. In addition, one of our key growth strategies is to market our products in international markets not currently served by us in portions of Europe, Latin America and Asia. We may not succeed in marketing, selling and distributing our products in these new markets. Moreover, conducting business outside the United States is subject to additional risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in regional, political or economic conditions, trade protection measures such as tariffs or import or export restrictions, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. One or more of these factors could prevent us from successfully expanding into new international markets and could also have a material adverse effect on our current international operations. 14 Table of Contents If we can not pass on higher raw material or manufacturing costs to our customers, we may become less profitable. One of the ways we attempt to manage the risk of higher raw material and manufacturing costs is to increase selling prices to our customers. The markets we serve are extremely competitive and customers may not accept price increases or may look to alternative suppliers which may negatively impact our profitability and revenues. If our suppliers cannot provide us with adequate quantities of materials to meet our customers’ demands on a timely basis or if the quality of the materials provided does not meet our standards we may lose customers or experience lower profitability. Some of our customer contracts require us to compensate those customers if we do not meet specified delivery obligations. We rely on numerous suppliers to provide us with our required materials and in many instances these materials must meet certain specifications. During 2005 and part of 2006, we experienced diminished supplier performance that negatively impacted our operating and net income. The diminished supplier performance was the result of: the closure of certain suppliers, problems with new supplier on-time delivery reliability as well as lower than expected new supplier qualification acceptance. While we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to remediate these lower supplier performance issues and to alleviate the diminished impact on profitability, a continuation or recurrence of these factors could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver our products to our customers within our committed time frames and could result in continued reductions of our operating and net income in future periods. A change in international governmental policies or restrictions could result in decreased availability and increased costs for certain components and finished products that we outsource, which could adversely affect our profitability. Like most manufacturers of fluid control products, we attempt, where appropriate, to reduce costs by seeking lower cost sources of certain components and finished products. Many such sources are located in developing countries such as the People’s Republic of China, India and Taiwan, where a change in governmental approach toward U.S. trade could restrict the availability to us of such sources. In addition, periods of war or other international tension could interfere with international freight operations and hinder our ability to take delivery of such components and products. A decrease in the availability of these items could hinder our ability to timely meet our customers’ orders. We attempt, when possible, to mitigate this risk by maintaining alternate sources for these components and products and by maintaining the capability to produce such items in our own manufacturing facilities. However, even when we are able to mitigate this risk, the cost of obtaining such items from alternate sources or producing them ourselves is often considerably greater, and a shift toward such higher cost production could therefore adversely affect our profitability. The costs of complying with existing or future environmental regulations, and curing any violations of these regulations could increase our expenses or reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous 15 Table of Contents materials used to manufacture, or resulting from the process of manufacturing, our products. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations, or with more vigorous enforcement of these or existing regulations could be significant. Environmental laws require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of these requirements could result in financial penalties and other enforcement actions. We also could be required to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with these environmental laws, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of curing violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities could be substantial. The costs of complying with existing or future governmental regulations on importing and exporting practices and of curing any violations of these regulations, could increase our expenses, reduce our revenues or reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of laws and international trade practices including regulations issued by the United States Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Export Administration, the Department of State, the Department of Treasury. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries into which certain of our products may be sold or could restrict our access to and increase the cost of obtaining products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of such regulations could result in enforcement actions and/or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. If either management or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies one or more material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that exist as of the end of our fiscal year, the material weakness(es) will be reported either by management in its self assessment or by our independent registered public accounting firm in its report or both, which may result in a loss of public confidence and could have an adverse affect on our business and our stock price. This could also result in significant additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit and a diversion of management attention. We face risks from product liability lawsuits that may adversely affect our business. We, like other manufacturers and distributors of products designed to control and regulate fluids and chemicals, face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury, property damage or business interruption to our customers. We may be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include 16 Table of Contents inadequate or improper instructions for use or installation, or inadequate warnings concerning the effects of the failure of our products. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for our products or components of our products. Although we have liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or, if available, will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. We generally seek to obtain contractual indemnification from our third-party suppliers, and for us to be added as an additional insured party under such parties’ insurance policies. Any such indemnification or insurance is limited by its terms and, as a practical matter, is limited to the credit worthiness of the indemnifying or insuring party. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of their services may adversely affect our business. We believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, if any of our key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, some of our customers might choose to use the services of that competitor or those of a new company instead of our own. Other companies seeking to develop capabilities and products similar to ours may hire away some of our key personnel. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited. Various restrictions and agreements could hinder a takeover of us which is not supported by our board of directors or which is leveraged. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, the Delaware General Corporation Law and our shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control in a transaction that is not approved by our board of directors or that is on a leveraged basis or otherwise. These include provisions creating a staggered board, limiting the shareholders’ powers to remove directors, and prohibiting shareholders from calling a special meeting or taking action by written consent in lieu of a shareholders’ meeting. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the shareholders, to set the terms of and to issue preferred stock. Issuing preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the owners of our common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. Additionally, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan providing for the issuance of rights that will cause substantial dilution to a person or group of persons that acquires 15% (or with respect to passive investors 20%) or more of our shares of common stock, unless the rights are redeemed. Delaying or preventing a takeover could result in our shareholders ultimately receiving less for their shares by deterring potential bidders for our stock or assets. 17 Table of Contents Our debt agreements limit our ability to issue equity, make acquisitions, incur debt, pay dividends, make investments, sell assets, merge or raise capital. Our outstanding industrial revenue bond, and our revolving credit facility agreement, dated December 20, 2005 and amended October 12, 2006, govern our indebtedness to our lenders. The debt agreements include provisions which place limitations on certain activities including our ability to: issue shares of our common stock; incur additional indebtedness; create any liens or encumbrances on our assets or make any guarantees; make certain investments; pay cash dividends above certain limits; or dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or a similar transaction. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product line developments, contracts or acquisitions or publicity regarding actual or potential results or performance; fluctuation in our quarterly operating results caused by fluctuations in revenue and expenses; substantial sales of our common stock by our existing shareholders; general stock market conditions; or other economic or external factors. In addition, the stock market as a whole has in the past experienced price and volume fluctuations. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources. Our international activities expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our international manufacturing and sales activities expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such fluctuations could result in our (i) paying higher prices for certain imported goods and services, (ii) realizing lower prices for any sales denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, (iii) realizing lower net income, on a U.S. dollar basis, from our international operations due to the effects of translation from weakened functional currencies, and (iv) realizing higher costs to settle transactions denominated in other currencies. Any of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our major foreign currency exposures involve the markets in Western Europe, Canada and Asia. We use forward contracts to manage the currency risk related to business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. We primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with maturities of less than eighteen months. To the extent these transactions are completed, the contracts do not subject us to significant risk from exchange rate fluctuations because they offset gains and losses on the related foreign currency denominated transactions. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 